Item 1A. Risk Factors.Risks Relating to Our StructureOur general partner and its control person could exercise their influence over us to your detriment.Mr. Icahn, through affiliates, owns 100% of Icahn Enterprises GP, the general partner of Icahn Enterprises and Icahn Enterprises Holdings, and approximately 93.2% of Icahn Enterprises' outstanding depositary units as of December 31, 2012, and, as a result, has the ability to influence many aspects of our operations and affairs. In addition, if Mr. Icahn were to sell, or otherwise transfer, some or all of his interests in us to an unrelated party or group, a change of control could be deemed to have occurred under the terms of the indenture governing our senior notes, which would require us to offer to repurchase all outstanding senior notes at 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest and liquidated damages, if any, to the date of repurchase and (ii) our senior unsecured variable rate convertible notes whereby each holder would have the option to require all or a portion of their notes to be repurchased in cash by us. However, it is possible that we will not have sufficient funds at the time of the change of control to make the required repurchase of notes.We have engaged, and in the future may engage, in transactions with our affiliates.We have invested and may in the future invest in entities in which Mr. Icahn also invests. We also have purchased and may in the future purchase entities or investments from him or his affiliates. Although Icahn Enterprises GP has never received fees in connection with our investments, our partnership agreement allows for the payment of these fees. Mr. Icahn may pursue other business opportunities in industries in which we compete and there is no requirement that any additional business opportunities be presented to us. We continuously identify, evaluate and engage in discussions concerning potential investments and acquisitions, including potential investments in and acquisitions of affiliates of Mr. Icahn. There cannot be any assurance that any potential transactions that we consider will be completed.The market for our securities may be volatile.The market for Icahn Enterprises' equity securities may be subject to disruptions that could cause substantial volatility in their prices. In general, economic crises have caused substantial market volatility and unrest. Any such disruptions or future volatility may adversely affect the value of your securities.Future cash distributions to Icahn Enterprises' unitholders, if any, can be affected by numerous factors.On February 11, 2013, Icahn Enterprises announced that the board of directors of our general partner, Icahn Enterprises GP, had approved a modification to its distribution policy to provide for an increase in the annual distribution from $1.40, comprised of $0.40 in cash and $1.00 in depositary units, to $4.00 per depositary unit, payable in either cash or additional depositary units, at the election of each depositary unit holder starting in the year ending December 31, 2013.While we made cash distributions to Icahn Enterprises' unitholders in each of the four quarters of 2012, the payment of future distributions, including higher distribution amounts as discussed above, will be determined by the board of directors of Icahn Enterprises GP, our general partner, quarterly, based on a review of a number of factors, including those described below and other factors that it deems relevant at the time that declaration of a distribution is considered.Our ability to pay distributions will depend on numerous factors, including the availability of adequate cash flow from operations; the proceeds, if any, from divestitures; our capital requirements and other obligations; restrictions contained in our financing arrangements; and our issuances of additional equity and debt securities. The availability of cash flow in the future depends as well upon events and circumstances outside our control, including prevailing economic and industry conditions and financial, business and similar factors. No assurance can be given that we will be able to make distributions or as to the timing 22of any distribution. If distributions are made, there can be no assurance that holders of depositary units may not be required to recognize taxable income in excess of cash distributions made in respect of the period in which a distribution is made.Holders of Icahn Enterprises' depositary units have limited voting rights, including rights to participate in our management. Our general partner manages and operates Icahn Enterprises. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, holders of Icahn Enterprises' outstanding depositary units have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business. Holders of depositary units have no right to elect the general partner on an annual or other continuing basis, and our general partner generally may not be removed except pursuant to the vote of the holders of not less than 75% of the outstanding depositary units. In addition, removal of the general partner may result in a default under our debt securities. As a result, holders of depositary units have limited say in matters affecting our operations and others may find it difficult to attempt to gain control or influence our activities.Holders of Icahn Enterprises' depositary units may not have limited liability in certain circumstances and may be personally liable for the return of distributions that cause our liabilities to exceed our assets.We conduct our businesses through Icahn Enterprises Holdings in several states. Maintenance of limited liability will require compliance with legal requirements of those states. We are the sole limited partner of Icahn Enterprises Holdings. Limitations on the liability of a limited partner for the obligations of a limited partnership have not clearly been established in several states. If it were determined that Icahn Enterprises Holdings has been conducting business in any state without compliance with the applicable limited partnership statute or the possession or exercise of the right by the partnership, as limited partner of Icahn Enterprises Holdings, to remove its general partner, to approve certain amendments to the Icahn Enterprises Holdings partnership agreement or to take other action pursuant to the Icahn Enterprises Holdings partnership agreement, constituted “control” of Icahn Enterprises Holdings' business for the purposes of the statutes of any relevant state, Icahn Enterprises and/or its unitholders, under certain circumstances, might be held personally liable for Icahn Enterprises Holdings' obligations to the same extent as our general partner. Further, under the laws of certain states, Icahn Enterprises might be liable for the amount of distributions made to Icahn Enterprises by Icahn Enterprises Holdings.Holders of Icahn Enterprises' depositary units may also be required to repay Icahn Enterprises amounts wrongfully distributed to them. Under Delaware law, we may not make a distribution to holders of our depositary units if the distribution causes our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and nonrecourse liabilities are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that a limited partner who receives such a distribution and knew at the time of the distribution that the distribution violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount for three years from the distribution date.Additionally, under Delaware law an assignee who becomes a substituted limited partner of a limited partnership is liable for the obligations, if any, of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership. However, such an assignee is not obligated for liabilities unknown to him or her at the time he or she became a limited partner if the liabilities could not be determined from the partnership agreement.To service our indebtedness and pay distributions with respect to Icahn Enterprises' depositary units, we require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to maintain our current cash position or generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, to pay distributions with respect to Icahn Enterprises' depositary units and to fund operations depends on existing cash balances and our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.Our current businesses and businesses that we acquire may not generate sufficient cash to service our debt. In addition, we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or investments and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. Approximately $1.4 billion of indebtedness will come due in the three-year period ending December 31, 2015, which includes interest on our senior notes, and principal and interest on our convertible notes and mortgages payable. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all.We are a holding company and depend on the businesses of our subsidiaries to satisfy our obligations.We are a holding company. In addition to cash and cash equivalents, U.S. government and agency obligations and other short-term investments, our assets consist primarily of investments in our subsidiaries. Moreover, if we make significant investments in operating businesses, it is likely that we will reduce the liquid assets at Icahn Enterprises and Icahn Enterprises Holdings in order to fund those investments and the ongoing operations of our subsidiaries and in the Investment Funds. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to meet our debt service obligations and make distributions with respect to 23depositary units likely will depend on the cash flow of our subsidiaries, returns on our interests in the Investment Funds and the payment of funds to us by our subsidiaries in the form of dividends, distributions, loans or otherwise.The operating results of our subsidiaries may not be sufficient to make distributions to us. In addition, our subsidiaries are not obligated to make funds available to us and distributions and intercompany transfers from our subsidiaries to us may be restricted by applicable law or covenants contained in debt agreements and other agreements to which these subsidiaries may be subject or enter into in the future. The terms of certain debt agreements of our subsidiaries, or other entities in which we own equity, restrict dividends, distributions or loans to us. To the degree any distributions and transfers are impaired or prohibited, our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions on our depositary units will be limited.We or our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt.During 2010, we issued $1,050 million aggregate principal amount of 7.750% senior notes due 2016 (the "2016 Notes"), and $1,450 million aggregate principal amount of 8% senior notes due 2018 (the "2018 Notes" and, together with the 2016 Notes, referred to herein as the "Initial Notes") in a private placement not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. During 2012, we issued an aggregate of $1,000 million principal amount of the 2018 Notes, or the Additional 2018 Notes, in private placements not registered under the Securities Act. The Additional 2018 Notes constitute the same series of securities as the 2018 Notes for purposes of the indenture governing the notes and will vote together on all matters with such series. The Additional 2018 Notes have substantially identical terms as the 2018 Notes. The Initial Notes and Additional 2018 Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture dated as of January 15, 2010 by us and Icahn Enterprises Finance Corp. ("Icahn Enterprises Finance") as co-issuer. The proceeds from the sale of the Initial Notes were used in part to repay the existing senior unsecured 7.125% notes due 2013, or the 2013 Notes, and the senior unsecured 8.125% notes due 2012, or the 2012 Notes. We and Icahn Enterprises Holdings may incur additional indebtedness if we comply with certain financial tests contained in the indentures that govern our senior notes. However, our subsidiaries other than Icahn Enterprises Holdings are not subject to any of the covenants contained in the indentures governing our senior notes. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries' current levels, the related risks that we, and they, now face could intensify. In addition, under the indenture governing our senior notes, certain important events, such as leveraged recapitalizations that would increase the level of our indebtedness, would not constitute a change of control.As of December 31, 2012, based on covenants in the indenture governing our senior notes, we were permitted to incur approximately $1.3 billion in additional indebtedness.On January 25, 2013, Icahn Enterprises and Icahn Enterprises Holdings delivered a notice of satisfaction and discharge to the registered holders of our outstanding variable rate notes in accordance with the terms of the indenture dated as of April 5, 2007. See Note 20, "Subsequent Events-Holding Company," to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.Our failure to comply with the covenants contained under any of our debt instruments, including the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes, including our failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition.If there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments. It is possible that, if the defaulted debt is accelerated, our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments and we cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities.We may be subject to the pension liabilities of our affiliates.Mr. Icahn, through certain affiliates, owns 100% of Icahn Enterprises GP and approximately 93.2% of Icahn Enterprises' outstanding depositary units as of December 31, 2012. Applicable pension and tax laws make each member of a “controlled group” of entities, generally defined as entities in which there is at least an 80% common ownership interest, jointly and severally liable for certain pension plan obligations of any member of the controlled group. These pension obligations include ongoing contributions to fund the plan, as well as liability for any unfunded liabilities that may exist at the time the plan is terminated. In addition, the failure to pay these pension obligations when due may result in the creation of liens in favor of the pension plan or the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC"), against the assets of each member of the controlled group.As a result of the more than 80% ownership interest in us by Mr. Icahn's affiliates, we and our subsidiaries are subject to the pension liabilities of all entities in which Mr. Icahn has a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 80%. One such entity, ACF Industries LLC, is the sponsor of several pension plans. All the minimum funding requirements of the Code and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006, for these plans have 24been met as of December 31, 2012. If the plans were voluntarily terminated, they would be underfunded by approximately $130 million. These results are based on the most recent information provided by the plans' actuaries. These liabilities could increase or decrease, depending on a number of factors, including future changes in benefits, investment returns, and the assumptions used to calculate the liability. As members of the controlled group, we would be liable for any failure of ACF to make ongoing pension contributions or to pay the unfunded liabilities upon a termination of the ACF pension plans. In addition, other entities now or in the future within the controlled group that includes us may have pension plan obligations that are, or may become, underfunded and we would be liable for any failure of such entities to make ongoing pension contributions or to pay the unfunded liabilities upon a termination of such plans.The current underfunded status of the ACF pension plans requires ACF to notify the PBGC of certain “reportable events,” such as if we cease to be a member of the ACF controlled group, or if we make certain extraordinary dividends or stock redemptions. The obligation to report could cause us to seek to delay or reconsider the occurrence of such reportable events.Starfire Holding Corporation ("Starfire") which is 100% owned by Mr. Icahn, has undertaken to indemnify us and our subsidiaries from losses resulting from any imposition of certain pension funding or termination liabilities that may be imposed on us and our subsidiaries or our assets as a result of being a member of the Icahn controlled group. The Starfire indemnity (which does not extend to pension liabilities of our subsidiaries that would be imposed on us as a result of our interest in these subsidiaries and not as a result of Mr. Icahn and his affiliates more than 80% ownership interest in us) provides, among other things, that so long as such contingent liabilities exist and could be imposed on us, Starfire will not make any distributions to its stockholders that would reduce its net worth to below $250 million. Nonetheless, Starfire may not be able to fund its indemnification obligations to us.We are subject to the risk of possibly becoming an investment company.Because we are a holding company and a significant portion of our assets may, from time to time, consist of investments in companies in which we own less than a 50% interest, we run the risk of inadvertently becoming an investment company that is required to register under the Investment Company Act. Registered investment companies are subject to extensive, restrictive and potentially adverse regulations relating to, among other things, operating methods, management, capital structure, dividends and transactions with affiliates. Registered investment companies are not permitted to operate their business in the manner in which we operate our business, nor are registered investment companies permitted to have many of the relationships that we have with our affiliated companies.In order not to become an investment company required to register under the Investment Company Act, we monitor the value of our investments and structure transactions with an eye toward the Investment Company Act. As a result, we may structure transactions in a less advantageous manner than if we did not have Investment Company Act concerns, or we may avoid otherwise economically desirable transactions due to those concerns. In addition, events beyond our control, including significant appreciation or depreciation in the market value of certain of our publicly traded holdings or adverse developments with respect to our ownership of certain of our subsidiaries, could result in our inadvertently becoming an investment company. If it were established that we were an investment company, there would be a risk, among other material adverse consequences, that we could become subject to monetary penalties or injunctive relief, or both, in an action brought by the SEC, that we would be unable to enforce contracts with third parties or that third parties could seek to obtain rescission of transactions with us undertaken during the period it was established that we were an unregistered investment company.We may become taxable as a corporation.We believe that we have been and are properly treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. This allows us to pass through our income and deductions to our partners. However, the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") could challenge our partnership status and we could fail to qualify as a partnership for past years as well as future years. Qualification as a partnership involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code. For example, a publicly traded partnership is generally taxable as a corporation unless 90% or more of its gross income is “qualifying” income, which includes interest, dividends, oil and gas revenues, real property rents, gains from the sale or other disposition of real property, gain from the sale or other disposition of capital assets held for the production of interest or dividends, and certain other items. We believe that in all prior years of our existence at least 90% of our gross income was qualifying income and we intend to structure our business in a manner such that at least 90% of our gross income will constitute qualifying income this year and in the future. However, there can be no assurance that such structuring will be effective in all events to avoid the receipt of more than 10% of non-qualifying income. If less than 90% of our gross income constitutes qualifying income, we may be subject to corporate tax on our net income, at a Federal rate of up to 35% plus possible state taxes. Further, if less than 90% of our gross income constituted qualifying income for past years, we may be subject to corporate level tax plus interest and possibly penalties. In addition, if we register under the Investment Company Act, it is likely that we would be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The cost of paying federal and possibly state income tax, either for past years or going forward could be a significant liability and would reduce our funds available to make distributions to holders of units, and to make interest and 25principal payments on our debt securities. To meet the qualifying income test we may structure transactions in a manner which is less advantageous than if this were not a consideration, or we may avoid otherwise economically desirable transactions.From time to time, legislative proposals have been introduced that, if enacted, could have a material and adverse effect on us. These proposals have included taxing publicly traded partnerships engaged in the Investment segment, such as us, as corporations and introducing substantive changes to the definition of qualifying income, which could make it more difficult or impossible to for us to meet the exception that allows publicly traded partnerships generating qualifying income to be treated as partnerships (rather than corporations) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. It is unclear when or if such legislation would be introduced, whether or not such legislation would be enacted, what specific provisions would be included or what the effective date would be, and as a result the ultimate impact on us of such legislation is uncertain. It is possible that if carried interest legislation were enacted we would be treated as an association, taxable as a corporation, which would materially increase our taxes. As an alternative, we might be required to restructure our operations, and possibly dispose of certain businesses, in order to avoid or mitigate the impact of any such legislation.Holders of depositary units may be required to pay tax on their share of our income even if they did not receive cash distributions from us.Because we are treated as a partnership for income tax purposes, holders of units are generally required to pay federal income tax, and, in some cases, state or local income tax, on the portion of our taxable income allocated to them, whether or not such income is distributed. Accordingly, it is possible that holders of depositary units may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income, or even equal to their tax liability on the portion of our income allocated to them. If we discover significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting or at any recently acquired entity, it may adversely affect our ability to provide timely and reliable financial information and satisfy our reporting obligations under federal securities laws, which also could affect the market price of our depositary units or our ability to remain listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, or NASDAQ.Effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. A “significant deficiency” is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention of those responsible for oversight of our financial reporting.To the extent that any material weakness or significant deficiency exists in our consolidated subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting, such material weakness or significant deficiency may adversely affect our ability to provide timely and reliable financial information necessary for the conduct of our business and satisfaction of our reporting obligations under federal securities laws, that could affect our ability to remain listed on NASDAQ. Ineffective internal and disclosure controls could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our depositary units or the rating of our debt.Since we are a limited partnership, you may not be able to pursue legal claims against us in U.S. federal courts.We are a limited partnership organized under the laws of the state of Delaware. Under the federal rules of civil procedure, you may not be able to sue us in federal court on claims other than those based solely on federal law, because of lack of complete diversity. Case law applying diversity jurisdiction deems us to be a citizen of each of our limited partners. Because we are a publicly traded limited partnership, it may not be possible for you to attempt to sue us in a federal court because we have citizenship in all 50 U.S. states and operations in many states. Accordingly, you will be limited to bringing any claims in state court.Certain members of our management team may be involved in other business activities that may involve conflicts of interest.Certain individual members of our management team may, from time to time, be involved in the management of other businesses, including those owned or controlled by Mr. Icahn and his affiliates. Accordingly, these individuals may focus a portion of their time and attention on managing these other businesses. Conflicts may arise in the future between our interests and the interests of the other entities and business activities in which such individuals are involved.We may not realize the potential benefits of our acquisitions.We may expand our existing businesses if appropriate opportunities are identified, as well as use our established businesses as a platform for additional acquisitions in the same or related areas. Any such acquisition, if consummated, could involve risks not presently faced by us. In addition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any such acquisition.26Risks Relating to Our BusinessGeneralIn addition to the following risk factors specific to each of our businesses, all of our businesses are subject to the effects of the following:•the threat of terrorism or war;•loss of any of our or our subsidiaries' key personnel;•the unavailability, as needed, of additional financing; and•the unavailability of insurance at acceptable rates.Global economic conditions may have adverse impacts on our businesses and financial condition.Changes in economic conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A number of economic factors, including, but not limited to, consumer interest rates, consumer confidence and debt levels, retail trends, housing starts, sales of existing homes, the level and availability of mortgage refinancing, and commodity prices, may generally adversely affect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. Recessionary economic cycles, higher and protracted unemployment rates, increased fuel and other energy and commodity costs, rising costs of transportation and increased tax rates can have a material adverse impact on our businesses, and may adversely affect demand for sales of our businesses' products, or the costs of materials and services utilized in their operations. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, income from operations and our cash flows. InvestmentOur Investment segment may be materially and negatively affected by adverse conditions in the global financial markets and the economy generally.There is significant risk that conditions in the global financial markets and the economy generally could deteriorate and experience volatility and illiquidity and these conditions could continue for a significant period of time. In the event that some or all of these conditions occur, the Investment Funds could be materially and adversely affected in many different ways. Furthermore, difficult market conditions may also increase the risk of default with respect to debt investments held by the Investment Funds. Many other factors beyond the control of our Investment segment may adversely affect the Investment Funds, including, without limitation, rising interest rates, inflation, terrorism or political uncertainty.The historical financial information for our Investment segment is not necessarily indicative of its future performance.The financial results of our Investment segment are primarily driven by the performance of the Investment Funds and our interests therein. The historical consolidated financial information contained elsewhere in this Report is not indicative of the future financial results of our Investment segment. In particular, with respect to the historical returns of our Investment segment:•past favorable market conditions and profitable investment opportunities may not occur in the future; and•future returns may be affected by the risks described elsewhere in this Report, including risks of the industries and businesses in which a particular fund invests.Successful execution of the Investment Funds' activist investment activities involves many risks, certain of which are outside of our control.The success of the Investment Funds' investment strategy may require, among other things: (i) that our Investment segment properly identify companies whose securities prices can be improved through corporate and/or strategic action or successful restructuring of their operations; (ii) that the Investment Funds acquire sufficient securities of such companies at a sufficiently attractive price; (iii) that the Investment Funds avoid triggering anti-takeover and regulatory obstacles while aggregating their positions; (iv) that management of portfolio companies and other security holders respond positively to our proposals; and (v) that the market price of portfolio companies' securities increases in response to any actions taken by the portfolio companies. We cannot assure you that any of the foregoing will succeed.The Investment Funds' investment strategy involves numerous and significant risks, including the risk that we may lose some or all of our investments in the Investment Funds. This risk may be magnified due to concentration of investments and investments in undervalued securities.Our Investment segment's revenue depends on the investments made by the Investment Funds. There are numerous and significant risks associated with these investments, certain of which are described in this risk factor and in other risk factors set forth herein.27Certain investment positions held by the Investment Funds may be illiquid. The Investment Funds may own restricted or non-publicly traded securities and securities traded on foreign exchanges. These investments could prevent the Investment Funds from liquidating unfavorable positions promptly and subject the Investment Funds to substantial losses.At any given time, the Investment Funds' assets may become highly concentrated within a particular company, industry, asset category, trading style or financial or economic market. In that event, the Investment Fund's investment portfolio will be more susceptible to fluctuations in value resulting from adverse economic conditions affecting the performance of that particular company, industry, asset category, trading style or economic market than a less concentrated portfolio would be. As a result, the Investment Funds' investment portfolio could become concentrated and its aggregate return may be volatile and may be affected substantially by the performance of only one or a few holdings.The Investment Funds seek to invest in securities that are undervalued. The identification of investment opportunities in undervalued securities is a difficult task, and there are no assurances that such opportunities will be successfully recognized or acquired. While investments in undervalued securities offer the opportunity for above-average capital appreciation, these investments involve a high degree of financial risk and can result in substantial losses. Returns generated from the Investment Funds' investments may not adequately compensate for the business and financial risks assumed.From time to time, the Investment Funds may invest in bonds or other fixed income securities, such as commercial paper and higher yielding (and, therefore, higher risk) debt securities. It is likely that a major economic recession could severely disrupt the market for such securities and may have a material adverse impact on the value of such securities. In addition, it is likely that any such economic downturn could adversely affect the ability of the issuers of such securities to repay principal and pay interest thereon and increase the incidence of default for such securities.For reasons not necessarily attributable to any of the risks set forth in this Report (for example, supply/demand imbalances or other market forces), the prices of the securities in which the Investment Funds invest may decline substantially. In particular, purchasing assets at what may appear to be undervalued levels is no guarantee that these assets will not be trading at even more undervalued levels at a future time of valuation or at the time of sale.The prices of financial instruments in which the Investment Funds may invest can be highly volatile. Price movements of forward and other derivative contracts in which the Investment Funds' assets may be invested are influenced by, among other things, interest rates, changing supply and demand relationships, trade, fiscal, monetary and exchange control programs and policies of governments, and national and international political and economic events and policies. The Investment Funds are subject to the risk of failure of any of the exchanges on which their positions trade or of their clearinghouses.The use of leverage in investments by the Investment Funds may pose a significant degree of risk and may enhance the possibility of significant loss in the value of the investments in the Investment Funds.The Investment Funds may leverage their capital if their general partners believe that the use of leverage may enable the Investment Funds to achieve a higher rate of return. Accordingly, the Investment Funds may pledge its securities in order to borrow additional funds for investment purposes. The Investment Funds may also leverage its investment return with options, short sales, swaps, forwards and other derivative instruments. The amount of borrowings that the Investment Funds may have outstanding at any time may be substantial in relation to their capital. While leverage may present opportunities for increasing the Investment Funds' total return, leverage may increase losses as well. Accordingly, any event that adversely affects the value of an investment by the Investment Funds would be magnified to the extent such fund is leveraged. The cumulative effect of the use of leverage by the Investment Funds in a market that moves adversely to the Investment Funds' investments could result in a substantial loss to the Investment Funds that would be greater than if the Investment Funds were not leveraged. There is no assurance that leverage will be available on acceptable terms, if at all.In general, the use of short-term margin borrowings results in certain additional risks to the Investment Funds. For example, should the securities pledged to brokers to secure any Investment Fund's margin accounts decline in value, the Investment Funds could be subject to a “margin call,” pursuant to which it must either deposit additional funds or securities with the broker, or suffer mandatory liquidation of the pledged securities to compensate for the decline in value. In the event of a sudden drop in the value of any of the Investment Funds' assets, the Investment Funds might not be able to liquidate assets quickly enough to satisfy its margin requirements.Any of the Investment Funds may enter into repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements. When the Investment Funds enters into a repurchase agreement, it “sells” securities issued by the U.S. or a non-U.S. government, or agencies thereof, to a broker-dealer or financial institution, and agrees to repurchase such securities for the price paid by the broker-dealer or financial institution, plus interest at a negotiated rate. In a reverse repurchase transaction, the Investment Fund “buys” securities issued by the U.S. or a non-U.S. government, or agencies thereof, from a broker-dealer or financial institution, subject to the obligation of the broker-dealer or financial institution to repurchase such securities at the price paid by the Investment Funds, plus interest at a negotiated rate. The use of repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements by any of the Investment Funds involves certain risks. For example, if the seller of securities to the Investment Funds under a reverse repurchase agreement defaults on its 28obligation to repurchase the underlying securities, as a result of its bankruptcy or otherwise, the Investment Funds will seek to dispose of such securities, which action could involve costs or delays. If the seller becomes insolvent and subject to liquidation or reorganization under applicable bankruptcy or other laws, the Investment Funds' ability to dispose of the underlying securities may be restricted. Finally, if a seller defaults on its obligation to repurchase securities under a reverse repurchase agreement, the Investment Funds may suffer a loss to the extent it is forced to liquidate its position in the market, and proceeds from the sale of the underlying securities are less than the repurchase price agreed to by the defaulting seller.The financing used by the Investment Funds to leverage its portfolio will be extended by securities brokers and dealers in the marketplace in which the Investment Funds invest. While the Investment Funds will attempt to negotiate the terms of these financing arrangements with such brokers and dealers, its ability to do so will be limited. The Investment Funds are therefore subject to changes in the value that the broker-dealer ascribes to a given security or position, the amount of margin required to support such security or position, the borrowing rate to finance such security or position and/or such broker-dealer's willingness to continue to provide any such credit to the Investment Funds. Because the Investment Funds currently have no alternative credit facility which could be used to finance its portfolio in the absence of financing from broker-dealers, it could be forced to liquidate its portfolio on short notice to meet its financing obligations. The forced liquidation of all or a portion of the Investment Funds' portfolios at distressed prices could result in significant losses to the Investment Funds.The possibility of increased regulation could result in additional burdens on our Investment segment. Changes in tax law could adversely affect us.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Reform Act, was enacted into law in July 2010, resulted in new regulations affecting almost every part of the financial services industry. The regulatory environment in which our Investment segment operates is subject to further regulation in addition to the rules already promulgated. Our Investment segment may be adversely affected by the enactment of new or revised regulations, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of rules and regulations imposed by the SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets. Such changes may limit the scope of investment activities that may be undertaken by the Investment Funds' managers. Any such changes could increase the cost of our Investment segment's doing business and/or materially adversely impact our profitability. Additionally, the securities and futures markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and margin requirements. The SEC, other regulators and self-regulatory organizations and exchanges have taken and are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies. The regulation of derivatives transactions and funds that engage in such transactions is an evolving area of law and is subject to modification by government and judicial action. The effect of any future regulatory change on the Investment Funds and the Investment segment could be substantial and adverse.In addition, legislative proposals have been introduced that, if enacted, could have a material and adverse effect on us. These proposals have included taxing publicly traded partnerships engaged in the Investment segment, such as us, as corporations and introducing substantive changes to the definition of qualifying income, which could make it more difficult or impossible to for us to meet the exception that allows publicly traded partnerships generating qualifying income to be treated as partnerships (rather than corporations) of U.S. federal income tax purposes. It is unclear when or if such legislation would be introduced, whether or not such legislation would be enacted, what specific provisions would be included or what the effective date would be, and as a result the ultimate impact on us of any such legislation is uncertain. It is possible that if carried interest legislation were enacted we would be treated as an association, taxable as a corporation, which would materially increase our taxes. As an alternative, we might be required to restructure our operations, and possibly dispose of certain businesses, in order to avoid or mitigate the impact of any such legislation. We currently cannot predict the outcome of such legislative proposals, including, if enacted, their impact on our operations and financial position.The failure of Mr. Icahn to participate in the management of the Investment Funds could have a material adverse effect on the Investment Funds and on us.The success of the Investment Funds depends upon the ability of our Investment segment to develop and implement investment strategies that achieve the Investment Funds' investment objectives. Subjective decisions made by employees of our Investment segment may cause the Investment Funds to incur losses or to miss profit opportunities on which the Investment Funds would otherwise have capitalized. In the event that Mr. Icahn ceases to participate in the management of the Investment Funds, the consequences to the Investment Funds and our interest in them could be material and adverse and could lead to the premature termination of the Investment Funds. The loss of Mr. Icahn could, therefore, ultimately result in a loss of substantially all of the earnings of our Investment segment.The Investment Funds make investments in companies we do not control.Investments by the Investment Funds include investments in debt or equity securities of publicly traded companies that we do not control. Such investments may be acquired by the Investment Funds through open market trading activities or through purchases of securities from the issuer. These investments will be subject to the risk that the company in which the investment 29is made may make business, financial or management decisions with which our Investment segment disagree or that the majority of stakeholders or the management of the company may take risks or otherwise act in a manner that does not serve the best interests of the Investment Funds. In addition, the Investment Funds may make investments in which it shares control over the investment with co-investors, which may make it more difficult for it to implement its investment approach or exit the investment when it otherwise would. If any of the foregoing were to occur, the values of the investments by the Investment Funds could decrease and our Investment segment revenues could suffer as a result.The ability to hedge investments successfully is subject to numerous risks.The Investment Funds may utilize financial instruments, both for investment purposes and for risk management purposes in order to (i) protect against possible changes in the market value of the Investment Funds' investment portfolios resulting from fluctuations in the securities markets and changes in interest rates; (ii) protect the Investment Funds' unrealized gains in the value of its investment portfolios; (iii) facilitate the sale of any such investments; (iv) enhance or preserve returns, spreads or gains on any investment in the Investment Funds' portfolio; (v) hedge the interest rate or currency exchange rate on any of the Investment Funds' liabilities or assets; (vi) protect against any increase in the price of any securities our Investment segment anticipate purchasing at a later date; or (vii) for any other reason that our Investment segment deems appropriate.The success of any hedging activities will depend, in part, upon the degree of correlation between the performance of the instruments used in the hedging strategy and the performance of the portfolio investments being hedged. However, hedging techniques may not always be possible or effective in limiting potential risks of loss. Since the characteristics of many securities change as markets change or time passes, the success of our Investment segment's hedging strategy will also be subject to the ability of our Investment segment to continually recalculate, readjust and execute hedges in an efficient and timely manner. While the Investment Funds may enter into hedging transactions to seek to reduce risk, such transactions may result in a poorer overall performance for the Investment Funds than if it had not engaged in such hedging transactions. For a variety of reasons, the Investment Funds may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between the hedging instruments utilized and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Such an imperfect correlation may prevent the Investment Funds from achieving the intended hedge or expose the Investment Funds to risk of loss. The Investment Funds do not intend to seek to hedge every position and may determine not to hedge against a particular risk for various reasons, including, but not limited to, because they do not regard the probability of the risk occurring to be sufficiently high as to justify the cost of the hedge. Our Investment segment may not foresee the occurrence of the risk and therefore may not hedge against all risks.We are subject to third-party litigation risks attributable to our Investment segment that could result in significant liabilities that could adversely affect our Investment operations.Some of the tactics that the Investment Funds may use involve litigation. The Investment Funds could be a party to lawsuits that they initiate or that are initiated by a company in which the Investment Funds invest, other shareholders, or state and federal governmental bodies. There can be no assurance that litigation, once begun, would be resolved in favor of the Investment Funds.In addition, we will be exposed to risk of litigation by third parties or government regulators if our Investment segment's management of the Investment Funds is alleged to constitute gross negligence, willful misconduct or dishonesty or breach of contract or organizational documents or to violate applicable law. In such actions, we would be obligated to bear legal, settlement and other costs (which may exceed our available insurance coverage). In addition, our rights to indemnification from the applicable Investment Funds may be challenged.The Investment Funds may invest in companies that are based outside of the United States, which may expose the Investment Funds to additional risks not typically associated with investing in companies that are based in the United States.Investments in securities of non-U.S. issuers (including non-U.S. governments) and securities denominated or whose prices are quoted in non-U.S. currencies pose, to the extent not successfully hedged, currency exchange risks (including blockage, devaluation and non-exchangeability), as well as a range of other potential risks, which could include expropriation, confiscatory taxation, imposition of withholding or other taxes on dividends, interest, capital gains or other income, political or social instability, illiquidity, price volatility and market manipulation. In addition, less information may be available regarding securities of non-U.S. issuers, and non-U.S. issuers may not be subject to accounting, auditing and financial reporting standards and requirements comparable to, or as uniform as, those of U.S. issuers. Transaction costs of investing in non-U.S. securities markets are generally higher than in the United States. There is generally less government supervision and regulation of exchanges, brokers and issuers than there is in the United States. The Investment Funds may have greater difficulty taking appropriate legal action in non-U.S. courts. Non-U.S. markets also have different clearance and settlement procedures which in some markets have at times failed to keep pace with the volume of transactions, thereby creating substantial delays and settlement failures that could adversely affect the Investment Funds' performance. Investments in non-U.S. markets may result in imposition of non-U.S. taxes or withholding on income and gains recognized with respect to such securities. There can be no 30assurance that adverse developments with respect to such risks will not materially adversely affect the Investment Funds' investments that are held in certain countries or the returns from these investments.The Investment Funds invest in distressed securities, as well as bank loans, asset backed securities and mortgage backed securities.The Investment Funds may invest in securities of U.S. and non-U.S. issuers in weak financial condition, experiencing poor operating results, having substantial capital needs or negative net worth, facing special competitive or product obsolescence problems, or that are involved in bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings. Investments of this type may involve substantial financial, legal and business risks that can result in substantial, or at times even total, losses. The market prices of such securities are subject to abrupt and erratic market movements and above-average price volatility. It may take a number of years for the market price of such securities to reflect their intrinsic value. In liquidation (both in and out of bankruptcy) and other forms of corporate insolvency and reorganization, there exists the risk that the reorganization either will be unsuccessful (due to, for example, failure to obtain requisite approvals), will be delayed (for example, until various liabilities, actual or contingent, have been satisfied) or will result in a distribution of cash, assets or a new security the value of which will be less than the purchase price to the Investment Funds of the security in respect to which such distribution was made and the terms of which may render such security illiquid.The Investment Funds' investments are subject to numerous additional risks, certain of which are described below.•Generally, there are few limitations set forth in the governing documents of the Investment Funds on the execution of their investment activities, which are subject to the sole discretion of our Investment segment.•The Investment Funds may buy or sell (or write) both call options and put options, and when it writes options, it may do so on a covered or an uncovered basis. When the Investment Funds sell (or write) an option, the risk can be substantially greater than when it buys an option. The seller of an uncovered call option bears the risk of an increase in the market price of the underlying security above the exercise price. The risk is theoretically unlimited unless the option is covered. If it is covered, the Investment Funds would forego the opportunity for profit on the underlying security should the market price of the security rise above the exercise price. Swaps and certain options and other custom instruments are subject to the risk of non-performance by the swap counterparty, including risks relating to the creditworthiness of the swap counterparty, market risk, liquidity risk and operations risk.•The ability of the Investment Funds to execute a short selling strategy may be materially adversely impacted by temporary and/or new permanent rules, interpretations, prohibitions and restrictions adopted in response to adverse market events. Regulatory authorities may from time-to-time impose restrictions that adversely affect the Investment Funds' ability to borrow certain securities in connection with short sale transactions. In addition, traditional lenders of securities might be less likely to lend securities under certain market conditions. As a result, the Investment Funds may not be able to effectively pursue a short selling strategy due to a limited supply of securities available for borrowing.•The Investment Funds may engage in short-selling, which is subject to a theoretically unlimited risk of loss because there is no limit on how much the price of a security may appreciate before the short position is closed out. The Investment Funds may be subject to losses if a security lender demands return of the borrowed securities and an alternative lending source cannot be found or if the Investment Funds are otherwise unable to borrow securities that are necessary to hedge its positions. There can be no assurance that the Investment Funds will be able to maintain the ability to borrow securities sold short. There also can be no assurance that the securities necessary to cover a short position will be available for purchase at or near prices quoted in the market.•The Investment Funds may effect transactions through over-the-counter or interdealer markets. The participants in such markets are typically not subject to credit evaluation and regulatory oversight as are members of exchange-based markets. This exposes the Investment Funds to the risk that a counterparty will not settle a transaction in accordance with its terms and conditions because of a dispute over the terms of the contract (whether or not bona fide) or because of a credit or liquidity problem, thus causing the Investment Fund to suffer a loss. Such “counterparty risk” is accentuated for contracts with longer maturities where events may intervene to prevent settlement, or where the Investment Funds have concentrated its transactions with a single or small group of its counterparties. The Investment Funds are not restricted from dealing with any particular counterparty or from concentrating any or all of the Investment Funds' transactions with one counterparty.•Credit risk may arise through a default by one of several large institutions that are dependent on one another to meet their liquidity or operational needs, so that a default by one institution causes a series of defaults by other institutions. This systemic risk may materially adversely affect the financial intermediaries (such as prime brokers, clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges) with which the Investment Funds interact on a daily basis.31•The efficacy of investment and trading strategies depends largely on the ability to establish and maintain an overall market position in a combination of financial instruments. The Investment Funds' trading orders may not be executed in a timely and efficient manner due to various circumstances, including systems failures or human error. In such event, the Investment Funds might only be able to acquire some but not all of the components of the position, or if the overall positions were to need adjustment, the Investment Funds might not be able to make such adjustment. As a result, the Investment Funds may not be able to achieve the market position selected by our Investment segment and might incur a loss in liquidating their position.•The Investment Funds assets may be held in one or more accounts maintained for the Investment Fund by its prime broker or at other brokers or custodian banks, which may be located in various jurisdictions. The prime broker, other brokers (including those acting as sub-custodians) and custodian banks are subject to various laws and regulations in the relevant jurisdictions in the event of their insolvency. Accordingly, the practical effect of these laws and their application to the Investment Funds' assets may be subject to substantial variations, limitations and uncertainties. The insolvency of any of the prime brokers, local brokers, custodian banks or clearing corporations may result in the loss of all or a substantial portion of the Investment Funds' assets or in a significant delay in the Investment Funds having access to those assets.•The Investment Funds may invest in synthetic instruments with various counterparties. In the event of the insolvency of any counterparty, the Investment Funds' recourse will be limited to the collateral, if any, posted by the counterparty and, in the absence of collateral, the Investment Funds will be treated as a general creditor of the counterparty. While the Investment Funds expect that returns on a synthetic financial instrument may reflect those of each related reference security, as a result of the terms of the synthetic financial instrument and the assumption of the credit risk of the counterparty, a synthetic financial instrument may have a different expected return. The Investment Funds may also invest in credit default swaps. AutomotiveFederal-Mogul has substantial indebtedness, which could restrict its business activities and could subject Federal-Mogul to significant interest rate risk.As of December 31, 2012, our Automotive segment had approximately $2.8 billion of outstanding indebtedness. Federal-Mogul is permitted by the terms of its debt instruments to incur substantial additional indebtedness, subject to the restrictions therein. Federal-Mogul's inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy its debt obligations, or to refinance its debt obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have a material adverse effect on our Automotive operations.Federal-Mogul's indebtedness could:•limit its ability to borrow money for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other corporate purposes;•require Federal-Mogul to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow to payments on indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development and other corporate requirements;•increase its vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and•limit its ability to respond to business opportunities.A significant portion of Federal-Mogul's indebtedness accrues interest at variable rates. To the extent market interest rates rise, the cost of Federal-Mogul's debt would increase, adversely affecting our Automotive operations.Federal-Mogul's restructuring activities may not result in the anticipated synergies and cost savings.It is possible that the achievement of expected synergies and cost savings associated with restructuring activities will require additional costs or charges to earnings in future periods. It is also possible that the expected synergies may not be achieved. Any costs or charges could adversely impact our Automotive operations.Adverse conditions in the automotive market adversely affect demand for Federal-Mogul's products and expose Federal-Mogul to credit risks of its customers.Federal-Mogul's revenues are closely tied to global OE automobile sales, production levels and independent aftermarket parts replacement activity. The OE market is characterized by short-term volatility, with overall expected long-term growth in global vehicle sales and production. Automotive production in the local markets served by Federal-Mogul can be affected by macro-economic factors such as interest rates, fuel prices, consumer confidence, employment trends, regulatory and legislative oversight requirements and trade agreements. A variation in the level of automobile production would affect not only sales to OE customers but, depending on the reasons for the change, could impact demand from aftermarket customers. In addition, the 32aftermarket has become increasingly competitive. Our Automotive operations could be adversely affected if Federal-Mogul fails to respond in a timely and appropriate manner to changes in the demand for its products.Accounts receivable potentially subject Federal-Mogul to concentrations of credit risk. Federal-Mogul's customer base includes virtually every significant global automotive manufacturer, numerous Tier 1 automotive suppliers and a large number of distributors and installers of automotive aftermarket parts.Federal-Mogul's operations in foreign countries exposes our Automotive segment to risks related to economic and political conditions, currency fluctuations and import/export restrictions.Federal-Mogul has manufacturing and distribution facilities in many countries. International operations are subject to certain risks including:•exposure to local economic conditions;•exposure to local political conditions (including the risk of seizure of assets by foreign governments);•currency exchange rate fluctuations (including, but not limited to, material exchange rate fluctuations, such as devaluations) and currency controls; •export and import restrictions; and•compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting inappropriate payments.The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on our Federal-Mogul are unpredictable and vary from country to country.Certain of Federal-Mogul's operating entities report their financial condition and results of operations in currencies other than the U.S. dollar (including, but not limited to Brazilian real, British pound, Chinese yuan renminbi, Czech crown, euro, Indian rupee, Mexican peso, Polish zloty, Russian ruble, South Korean won and Swedish krona). In reporting its consolidated statements of operations, Federal-Mogul translates the reported results of these entities into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates. As a result, fluctuations in the dollar against foreign currencies will affect the value at which the results of these entities are included within Federal-Mogul's consolidated results.Federal-Mogul is exposed to a risk of gain or loss from changes in foreign exchange rates whenever Federal-Mogul, or one of its foreign subsidiaries, enters into a purchase or sales agreement in a currency other than its functional currency. While Federal-Mogul reduces such exposure by matching most revenues and costs within the same currency, changes in exchange rates could impact our Automotive operations. Federal-Mogul is subject to possible insolvency of financial counterparties.Federal-Mogul engages in numerous financial transactions and contracts including insurance policies, letters of credit, credit line agreements, financial derivatives (including interest rate swaps), and investment management agreements involving various counterparties. Federal-Mogul is subject to the risk that one or more of these counterparties may become insolvent and therefore be unable to discharge its obligations under such contracts.The automotive industry is highly competitive and Federal-Mogul's success depends upon its ability to compete effectively in the market.Federal-Mogul operates in an extremely competitive industry, driven by global vehicle production volumes and part replacement trends. Business is typically awarded to the supplier offering the most favorable combination of cost, quality, technology and service. In addition, customers continue to require periodic price reductions that require Federal-Mogul to continually assess, redefine and improve its operations, products and manufacturing capabilities to maintain and improve profitability. Federal-Mogul's management continues to develop and execute initiatives to meet the challenges of the industry and to achieve its strategy; however, there can be no assurance that Federal-Mogul will be able to compete effectively in the automotive market.Federal-Mogul's pension obligations and other post-employment benefits could adversely impact its operating margins and cash flows.The automotive industry, like other industries, continues to be impacted by the rising cost of providing pension and other post-employment benefits. In addition, Federal-Mogul sponsors certain defined benefit plans worldwide that are underfunded and will require cash payments. If the performance of the assets in the pension plans does not meet our expectations, or other actuarial assumptions are modified, Federal-Mogul's required contributions may be higher than it expects.33Certain disruptions in supply of and changes in the competitive environment for raw materials could adversely affect Federal-Mogul's operating margins and cash flows.Federal-Mogul purchases a broad range of materials, components and finished parts. Federal-Mogul also uses a significant amount of energy, both electricity and natural gas, in the production of its products. A significant disruption in the supply of these materials, supplies and energy or the failure of a supplier with whom Federal-Mogul has established a single source supply relationship could decrease production and shipping levels, materially increase operating costs and materially adversely affect profit margins. Shortages of materials or interruptions in transportation systems, labor strikes, work stoppages or other interruptions to or difficulties in the employment of labor or transportation in the markets where Federal-Mogul purchases material, components and supplies for the production of products or where the products are produced, distributed or sold, whether as a result of labor strife, war, further acts of terrorism or otherwise, in each case may adversely affect profitability.In recent periods there have been significant fluctuations in the prices of aluminum, copper, lead, nickel, platinum, resins, steel, other base metals and energy that have had and may continue to have an unfavorable impact on Federal-Mogul's business. Any continued fluctuations in the price or availability of energy and materials may have an adverse effect on our Automotive operations. To address increased costs associated with these market forces, a number of Federal-Mogul's suppliers have implemented surcharges on existing fixed price contracts. Without the surcharge, some suppliers claim they will be unable to provide adequate supply. Competitive and marketing pressures may limit Federal-Mogul's ability to pass some of the supply and material cost increases onto its customers and may prevent Federal-Mogul from doing so in the future. Furthermore, Federal-Mogul's customers are generally not obligated to accept price increases that Federal-Mogul may desire to pass along to them. This inability to pass on price increases to customers when material prices increase rapidly or to significantly higher than historic levels could adversely affect its operating margins and cash flow, possibly resulting in lower operating income and profitability.Federal-Mogul's hedging activities to address commodity price fluctuations may not be successful in offsetting future increases in those costs or may reduce or eliminate the benefits of any decreases in those costs.In order to mitigate short-term variation in operating results due to the aforementioned commodity price fluctuations, Federal-Mogul hedges a portion of near-term exposure to certain raw materials used in production processes, primarily natural gas, copper, nickel, tin, zinc, high-grade aluminum and aluminum alloy. The results of Federal-Mogul's hedging practice could be positive, neutral or negative in any period depending on price changes in the hedged exposures.Federal-Mogul's hedging activities are not designed to mitigate long-term commodity price fluctuations and, therefore, will not protect from long-term commodity price increases. Federal-Mogul's future hedging positions may not correlate to actual energy or raw materials costs, which would cause acceleration in the recognition of unrealized gains and losses on hedging positions in operating results.Federal-Mogul is subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and the cost of complying, or Federal-Mogul's failure to comply, with such requirements may have a material adverse effect on our Automotive operations.Federal-Mogul is subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to the release or discharge of materials into the environment, the management, use, processing, handling, storage, transport or disposal of hazardous waste materials, or otherwise relating to the protection of public and employee health, safety and the environment. These laws and regulations expose Federal-Mogul to liability for the environmental condition of its current facilities, and also may expose Federal-Mogul to liability for the conduct of others or for Federal-Mogul's actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time these actions were taken. These laws and regulations also may expose Federal-Mogul to liability for claims of personal injury or property damage related to alleged exposure to hazardous or toxic materials in foreign countries. Despite Federal-Mogul's intention to be in compliance with all such laws and regulations, Federal-Mogul cannot guarantee that it will at all times be in compliance with all such requirements. The cost of complying with these requirements may also increase substantially in future years. If Federal-Mogul violates or fails to comply with these requirements, Federal-Mogul could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. These requirements are complex, change frequently and may become more stringent over time, which could have a material adverse effect on its business.Federal-Mogul's failure to maintain and comply with environmental permits that it is required to maintain could result in fines or penalties or other sanctions and have a material adverse effect on its operations or results. Future events, such as new environmental regulations or changes in or modified interpretations of existing laws and regulations or enforcement policies, newly discovered information or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of products or business activities, may give rise to additional compliance and other costs that could have a material adverse effect on our Automotive operations.34Federal-Mogul is involved from time to time in legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes, which could have an adverse impact on its profitability and consolidated financial position.Federal-Mogul is involved in legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes that, from time to time, are significant. These are typically claims that arise in the normal course of business including, without limitation, commercial or contractual disputes, including disputes with suppliers, intellectual property matters, personal injury claims, environmental issues, tax matters and employment matters. No assurances can be given that such proceedings and claims will not have a material adverse impact on our Automotive operations.If Federal-Mogul is unable to protect its intellectual property and prevent its improper use by third parties, its ability to compete in the market may be harmed.Various patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws afford only limited protection and may not prevent Federal-Mogul's competitors from duplicating its products or gaining access to its proprietary information and technology. These means also may not permit Federal-Mogul to gain or maintain a competitive advantage.Any of Federal-Mogul's patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. Federal-Mogul cannot guarantee that it will be successful should one or more of its patents be challenged for any reason and countries outside the United States may diminish the protection of its patents. If Federal-Mogul's patent claims are rendered invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope, the patent coverage afforded to Federal-Mogul's products could be impaired, which could significantly impede Federal-Mogul's ability to market its products, negatively affect its competitive position and materially adversely affect our Automotive operations.Federal-Mogul's pending or future patent applications may not result in an issued patent. Additionally, newly issued patents may not provide Federal-Mogul with meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. Courts in the United States and in other countries may invalidate Federal-Mogul's patents or find them unenforceable. Competitors may also be able to design around Federal-Mogul's patents. Other parties may develop and obtain patent protection for more effective technologies, designs or methods. If these developments were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on its sales. If Federal-Mogul's intellectual property rights are not adequately protected, it may not be able to commercialize its technologies, products or services and its competitors could commercialize its technologies, which could result in a decrease in Federal-Mogul's sales and market share, and could materially adversely affect our Automotive operations.Federal-Mogul's products could infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may lead to litigation that could itself be costly, could result in the payment of substantial damages or royalties, and could prevent Federal-Mogul from using technology that is essential to its products.Federal-Mogul cannot guarantee that its products, manufacturing processes or other methods do not infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Infringement and other intellectual property claims and proceedings brought against Federal-Mogul, whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs and harm its reputation. Such claims and proceedings can also distract and divert management and key personnel from other tasks important to the success of its business. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force Federal-Mogul to do one or more of the following:•cease selling or using any of products that incorporate the asserted intellectual property, which would adversely affect Federal-Mogul's revenue;•pay substantial damages for past use of the asserted intellectual property;•obtain a license from the holder of the asserted intellectual property, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and•redesign or rename, in the case of trademark claims, products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and could be costly and time-consuming if it is possible to do.In the event of an adverse determination in an intellectual property suit or proceeding, or Federal-Mogul's failure to license essential technology, Federal-Mogul's sales could be harmed and its costs could increase, which could materially adversely affect our Automotive operations.Federal-Mogul may be exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change.Climate change is continuing to receive ever increasing attention worldwide. Many scientists, legislators and others attribute climate change to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which could lead to additional legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. The focus on emissions could increase costs associated with Federal-Mogul's operations, including costs for raw materials and transportation. Because the scope of future laws in this area is uncertain, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our operations' future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.35Federal-Mogul’s actions to separate its business into two business units may result in additional costs.Federal-Mogul has separated its business into two separate business units. Powertrain focuses primarily on the manufacture and sale of powertrain products to original equipment manufacturers while VCS consists of Federal-Mogul’s global aftermarket as well as its brake, chassis and wipers businesses. Federal-Mogul has initiated several actions in connection with the creation of these two operating divisions, including the hiring of a Chief Executive Officer for VCS and the identification of facilities that will be managed by each business unit. This separation may result in additional costs and expenses both during and after separation. No assurance can be given that the separation of the business into these two business units will not have a material adverse impact on our Automotive segment's profitability and consolidated financial position.EnergyInstability and volatility in the capital, credit and commodity markets in the global economy could negatively impact our Energy segment's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our Energy segment's business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted by difficult conditions and volatility in the capital, credit and commodities markets and in the global economy. For example:•Although CVR believes the petroleum business has sufficient liquidity under its ABL credit facility and the intercompany credit facility to operate both the Coffeyville and Wynnewood refineries, and that the nitrogen fertilizer business has sufficient liquidity under its revolving credit facility to run the nitrogen fertilizer business, under extreme market conditions there can be no assurance that such funds would be available or sufficient, and in such a case, CVR may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all;•Market volatility could exert downward pressure on the price of CVR Partners LP's ("CVR Partners" or "Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership") common units, which may make it more difficult for either or both of them to raise additional capital and thereby limit their ability to grow, which could in turn cause CVR's stock price to drop; and•Market conditions could result in significant customers experiencing financial difficulties. CVR is exposed to the credit risk of its customers, and their failure to meet their financial obligations when due because of bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons could result in decreased sales and earnings for CVR.The refineries and nitrogen fertilizer facility face operating hazards and interruptions, including unplanned maintenance or downtime. CVR could face potentially significant costs to the extent these hazards or interruptions cause a material decline in production and are not fully covered by its existing insurance coverage. Insurance companies that currently insure companies in the energy industry may cease to do so, may change the coverage provided or may substantially increase premiums in the future. Our Energy segment's operations are subject to significant operating hazards and interruptions. If any of CVR's facilities, including its Coffeyville or Wynnewood refineries or the nitrogen fertilizer plant, experiences a major accident or fire, is damaged by severe weather, flooding or other natural disaster, or is otherwise forced to significantly curtail its operations or shut down, CVR could incur significant losses that could have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Conducting the majority of CVR's refining operations and all of its fertilizer manufacturing at a single location compounds such risks. Operations at either or both of CVR's refineries and the nitrogen fertilizer plant could be curtailed or partially or completely shut down, temporarily or permanently, as the result of a number of circumstances, most of which are not within its control, such as: •unplanned maintenance or catastrophic events such as a major accident or fire, damage by severe weather, flooding or other natural disaster;•labor difficulties that result in a work stoppage or slowdown;•environmental proceedings or other litigation that compel the cessation of all or a portion of the operations;•state and federal agencies changing interpretations and enforcement of historical environmental rules and regulations; and•increasingly stringent environmental regulations.The magnitude of the effect on CVR of any shutdown will depend on the length of the shutdown and the extent of the plant operations affected by the shutdown. CVR's refineries require a planned maintenance turnaround every four to five years for each unit, and the nitrogen fertilizer plant requires a planned maintenance turnaround every two years. A major accident, fire, flood or other event could damage CVR's facilities or the environment and the surrounding community or result in injuries or loss of life. For example, the flood that occurred during the weekend of June 30, 2007 shut down CVR's Coffeyville refinery for seven weeks, shut down the nitrogen fertilizer facility for approximately two weeks and required significant expenditures to 36repair damaged equipment. In addition, the nitrogen fertilizer business' UAN plant was out of service for approximately six weeks after the rupture of a high pressure vessel in September 2010, which required significant expenditures to repair. CVR's Coffeyville refinery experienced an equipment malfunction and small fire in connection with its fluid catalytic cracking unit on December 28, 2010, which led to reduced crude oil throughput for approximately one month and required significant expenditures to repair. Similarly, the Wynnewood refinery experienced a small explosion and fire in its hydrocracker process unit due to metal failure in December 2010. In addition, on September 28, 2012, a boiler explosion occurred at the Wynnewood refinery, fatally injuring two employees. CVR has completed an internal investigation into the cause of the boiler explosion, which occurred as operators were restarting a boiler that had been temporarily shut down as part of the refinery's turnaround process. Damage at the refinery was limited to the boiler. This matter is currently under investigation by OSHA and the Oklahoma Department of Labor ("ODL"), which could impose penalties if they determine that a violation OSHA standards has occurred. Scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our Energy segment's net income and cash flows during the period of time that any of its units is not operating. Any unscheduled future downtime could have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If CVR experiences significant property damage, business interruption, environmental claims or other liabilities, its business could be materially adversely affected to the extent the damages or claims exceed the amount of valid and collectible insurance available to it. CVR's property and business interruption insurance policies (that cover the Coffeyville refinery and nitrogen fertilizer plant) have a $1.25 billion limit, with a $2.5 million deductible for physical damage and a 45- to 60-day waiting period (depending on the insurance carrier) before losses resulting from business interruptions are recoverable. CVR is fully exposed to all losses in excess of the applicable limits and sub-limits and for losses due to business interruptions of fewer than 45 to 60 days. CVR's Wynnewood refinery, effective November 1, 2012, is insured with a $1.0 billion limit, $10.0 million property damage deductible and a 75 days waiting period deductible for business interruption. The property and business interruption insurance policies insuring Coffeyville and Wynnewood assets contain various sub-limits, exclusions, and conditions that could have a material adverse impact on the insurance indemnification of any particular catastrophic loss occurrence. For example, CVR's current property policy contains varying specific sub-limits of $128.5 million (for Coffeyville assets) and $115.0 million (for Wynnewood assets) for damage caused by flooding. Insurance policy language and terms maintained by CVR are generally consistent with standards for the energy and fertilizer manufacturing industries. The insurance market for the energy and nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing industries is highly specialized with a finite aggregate capacity of insurance. It is currently not feasible to purchase insurance limits up to the maximum foreseeable loss occurrence due to insurance capacity constraints. CVR's insurance program is renewed annually, and its ability to maintain current levels of insurance is dependent on the conditions and financial stability of the commercial insurance markets serving its industries. Factors that impact insurance cost and availability include, but are not limited to: industry-wide losses, natural disasters, specific losses incurred by us, and the investment returns earned by the insurance industry. The energy insurance market underwrites many refineries having coastal hurricane risk exposure and off shore platforms, thus a significant hurricane occurrence could impact a number of refineries and have a catastrophic impact on the financial results of the entire insurance and reinsurance market serving CVR's industry. If the supply of commercial insurance is curtailed due to highly adverse financial results CVR may not be able to continue its present limits of insurance coverage, or obtain sufficient insurance capacity to adequately insure its risks for property damage or business interruption. Environmental laws and regulations could require CVR to make substantial capital expenditures to remain in compliance or to remediate current or future contamination that could give rise to material liabilities. CVR's operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the emission or discharge of pollutants into the environment, product specifications and the generation, treatment, storage, transportation, disposal and remediation of solid and hazardous wastes. Violations of these laws and regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial penalties, injunctive orders compelling installation of additional controls, civil and criminal sanctions, permit revocations and/or facility shutdowns. In addition, new environmental laws and regulations, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, increased governmental enforcement of laws and regulations or other developments could require CVR to make additional unforeseen expenditures. Many of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. The requirements to be met, as well as the technology and length of time available to meet those requirements, continue to develop and change. These expenditures or costs for environmental compliance could have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and profitability. CVR's facilities operate under a number of federal and state permits, licenses and approvals with terms and conditions containing a significant number of prescriptive limits and performance standards in order to operate. All of these permits, licenses, approval limits and standards require a significant amount of monitoring, record-keeping and reporting in order to demonstrate compliance with the underlying permit, license, approval or standard. Noncompliance or incomplete 37documentation of CVR's compliance status may result in the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive relief. Additionally, due to the nature of CVR's manufacturing and refining processes, there may be times when CVR is unable to meet the standards and terms and conditions of these permits, licenses and approvals due to operational upsets or malfunctions, which may lead to the imposition of fines and penalties or operating restrictions that may have a material adverse effect on CVR's ability to operate its facilities and accordingly its financial performance. CVR could incur significant cost in cleaning up contamination at its refineries, terminals, fertilizer plant and off-site locations. Our Energy segment's businesses are subject to the occurrence of accidental spills, discharges or other releases of petroleum or hazardous substances into the environment. Past or future spills related to any of CVR's current or former operations, including its refineries, pipelines, product terminals, fertilizer plant or transportation of products or hazardous substances from those facilities, may give rise to liability (including strict liability, or liability without fault, and potential cleanup responsibility) to governmental entities or private parties under federal, state or local environmental laws, as well as under common law. For example, CVR could be held strictly liable under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), and similar state statutes for past or future spills without regard to fault or whether CVR's actions were in compliance with the law at the time of the spills. Pursuant to CERCLA and similar state statutes, CVR could be held liable for contamination associated with facilities CVR currently owns or operates (whether or not such contamination occurred prior to its acquisition thereof), facilities CVR formerly owned or operated (if any) and facilities to which CVR transported or arranged for the transportation of wastes or byproducts containing hazardous substances for treatment, storage or disposal. The potential penalties and clean-up costs for past or future releases or spills, liability to third parties for damage to their property or exposure to hazardous substances, or the need to address newly discovered information or conditions that may require response actions could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, CVR may incur liability for alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances located at or released from its facilities. CVR may also face liability for personal injury, property damage, natural resource damage or for clean-up costs for the alleged migration of contamination or other hazardous substances from its facilities to adjacent and other nearby properties. Three of CVR's facilities, including the Coffeyville refinery, the now-closed Phillipsburg terminal (which operated as a refinery until 1991), and the Wynnewood refinery have environmental contamination. CVR has assumed Farmland's responsibilities under certain administrative orders under the RCRA related to contamination at or that originated from the Coffeyville refinery and the Phillpsburg terminal. The Wynnewood refinery is required to conduct investigations to address potential off-site migration of contaminants from the west side of the property. Other known areas of contamination at the Wynnewood refinery have been partially addressed but corrective action has not been completed, and limited portions of the Wynnewood refinery have not yet been investigated to determine whether corrective action is necessary. If significant unknown liabilities are identified at any of CVR's facilities, that liability could have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and may not be covered by insurance. CVR may incur future liability relating to the off-site disposal of hazardous wastes. Companies that dispose of, or arrange for the transportation or disposal of, hazardous substances at off-site locations may be held jointly and severally liable for the costs of investigation and remediation of contamination at those off-site locations, regardless of fault. CVR could become involved in litigation or other proceedings involving off-site waste disposal and the damages or costs in any such proceedings could be material. CVR may be unable to obtain or renew permits necessary for our Energy segment's operations, which could inhibit its ability to do business. CVR holds numerous environmental and other governmental permits and approvals authorizing operations at its facilities. Future expansion of CVR's operations is also predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. A decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed material permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on its ability to continue operations and on our Energy segment's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For example, WRC's OPDES permit has expired and is in the renewal process. At this time the Wynnewood refinery is operating under expired permit terms and conditions (called a permit shield) until the state regulatory agency renews the permit. The renewal permit may contain different terms and conditions that would require unplanned or unanticipated costs. Climate change laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Various regulatory and legislative measures to address greenhouse gas emissions (including CO2, methane and nitrous oxides) are in different phases of implementation or discussion. In the aftermath of its 2009 “endangerment finding” that 38greenhouse gas emissions pose a threat to human health and welfare, the EPA has begun to regulate greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act. In October 2009, the EPA finalized a rule requiring certain large emitters of greenhouse gases to inventory and report their greenhouse gas emissions to the EPA. In accordance with the rule, CVR has begun monitoring and reporting its greenhouse gas emissions and is reporting the emissions to the EPA. In May 2010, the EPA finalized the “Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule,” which established new greenhouse gas emissions thresholds that determine when stationary sources, such as the refineries and the nitrogen fertilizer plant, must obtain permits under PSD and Title V programs of the federal Clean Air Act. In cases where a new source is constructed or an existing major source undergoes a major modification, the facility is required to undergo PSD review and evaluate and implement and install best available control technology BACT for its greenhouse gas emissions. Phase-in permit requirements began for the largest stationary sources in 2011. A major modification resulting in a significant expansion of production and a significant increase in greenhouse gas emissions at the nitrogen fertilizer plant or the refineries may require the installation of BACT as part of the permitting process.In the meantime, in December 2010, the EPA reached a settlement agreement with numerous parties under which it agreed to promulgate NSPS to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from petroleum refineries. The EPA may propose the NSPS in 2013. During his State of the Union address in February 2013, President Obama indicated that the United States would take action to address climate change. At the federal legislative level, this might result in Congressional passage of legislation adopting some form of federal mandatory greenhouse gas emission reduction, such as a nationwide cap-and-trade program. It is also possible that Congress may pass alternative climate change bills that do not mandate a nationwide cap-and-trade program and instead focus on promoting renewable energy and energy efficiency.In addition to potential federal legislation, a number of states have adopted regional greenhouse gas initiatives to reduce CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions. In 2007, a group of Midwestern states, including Kansas (where the Coffeyville refinery and the nitrogen fertilizer facility are located), formed the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord, which calls for the development of a cap-and-trade system to control greenhouse gas emissions and for the inventory of such emissions. However, the individual states that have signed on to the accord must adopt laws or regulations implementing the trading scheme before it becomes effective, and it is unclear whether Kansas still intends to do so.Alternatively, the EPA may take further steps to regulate greenhouse gas emissions. The implementation of EPA regulations will result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain CVR's facilities, (ii) install new emission controls on CVR's facilities and (iii) administer and manage any greenhouse gas emissions program. Increased costs associated with compliance with any current or future legislation or regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, if it occurs, may have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.In addition, climate change legislation and regulations may result in increased costs not only for CVR's business, but also users of its refined and fertilizer products, thereby potentially decreasing demand for its products. Decreased demand for CVR's products may have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise CVR's information and expose it to liability, which would cause Energy operations' business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of its business, CVR collects and stores sensitive data, including intellectual property, CVR's proprietary business information and that of its customers and suppliers, and personally identifiable information of its employees, in its facilities and on its networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to CVR's operations. Despite CVR's security measures, its information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise CVR's networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, disrupt our Energy segment's operations, damage CVR's reputation, and cause a loss of confidence, which could adversely affect its business. Deliberate, malicious acts, including terrorism, could damage CVR's facilities, disrupt its operations or injure employees, contractors, customers or the public and result in liability to its. Intentional acts of destruction could hinder CVR's sales or production and disrupt its supply chain. CVR's facilities could be damaged or destroyed, reducing its operational production capacity and requiring it to repair or replace its facilities at substantial cost. Employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury for which CVR could be liable. Governmental authorities may impose security or other requirements that could make CVR's operations more difficult or costly. The consequences of any such actions could adversely affect our Energy segment's operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 39Both the petroleum and nitrogen fertilizer businesses depend on significant customers and the loss of one or several significant customers may have a material adverse impact on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The petroleum and nitrogen fertilizer businesses both have a significant concentration of customers. The five largest customers of the petroleum business represented 52% of CVR's petroleum sales for period May 5, 2012 to December 31, 2012. Further, the top five ammonia customers of the nitrogen fertilizer business represented approximately 62% of its ammonia sales for the period May 5, 2012 to December 31, 2012, and the top five UAN customers of the nitrogen fertilizer business represented approximately 44% of its UAN sales for the same period. Several significant ammonia and UAN customers each account for more than 10% of sales of ammonia and UAN, respectively. Given the nature of our Energy segment's business, and consistent with industry practice, CVR does not have long-term minimum purchase contracts with any of its customers. The loss of one or several of these significant customers, or a significant reduction in purchase volume by any of them, could have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The acquisition and expansion strategy of CVR's petroleum business and the nitrogen fertilizer business involves significant risks. Both CVR's petroleum business and the nitrogen fertilizer business will consider pursuing acquisitions and expansion projects in order to continue to grow and increase profitability. However, CVR may not be able to consummate such acquisitions or expansions, due to intense competition for suitable acquisition targets, the potential unavailability of financial resources necessary to consummate acquisitions and expansions, difficulties in identifying suitable acquisition targets and expansion projects or in completing any transactions identified on sufficiently favorable terms and the failure to obtain requisite regulatory or other governmental approvals. In addition, any future acquisitions and expansions may entail significant transaction costs and risks associated with entry into new markets and lines of business. The nitrogen fertilizer business is in the process of expanding its nitrogen fertilizer plant, which is expected to allow it the flexibility to upgrade all of its ammonia production to UAN. This expansion is premised in large part on the historically higher margin that UAN has received compared to ammonia. If the premium that UAN currently earns over ammonia decreases, this expansion project may not yield the economic benefits and accretive effects that are currently anticipated.In addition to the risks involved in identifying and completing acquisitions described above, even when acquisitions are completed, integration of acquired entities can involve significant difficulties, such as: •unforeseen difficulties in the integration of the acquired operations and disruption of the ongoing operations of CVR's business;•failure to achieve cost savings or other financial or operating objectives contributing to the accretive nature of an acquisition;•strain on the operational and managerial controls and procedures of the petroleum business and the nitrogen fertilizer business, and the need to modify systems or to add management resources;•difficulties in the integration and retention of customers or personnel and the integration and effective deployment of operations or technologies;•assumption of unknown material liabilities or regulatory non-compliance issues;•amortization of acquired assets, which would reduce future reported earnings;•possible adverse short-term effects on our Energy segment's cash flows or operating results; and•diversion of management's attention from the ongoing operations of our Energy segment's business.In addition, in connection with any potential acquisition or expansion project, the CVR Refining, LP (or Refining Partnership) or the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership (as applicable) will need to consider whether a business they intend to acquire or expansion project they intend to pursue could affect their tax treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the petroleum business or the nitrogen fertilizer business is otherwise unable to conclude that the activities of the business being acquired or the expansion project would not affect its treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, it may elect to seek a ruling from the IRS. Seeking such a ruling could be costly or, in the case of competitive acquisitions, place the business in a competitive disadvantage compared to other potential acquirers who do not seek such a ruling. If the petroleum business or the nitrogen fertilizer business is unable to conclude that an activity would not affect its treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, and is unable or unwilling to obtain an IRS ruling, the petroleum business or the nitrogen fertilizer business may choose to acquire such business or develop such expansion project in a corporate subsidiary, which would subject the income related to such activity to entity-level taxation, which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to the unitholders and would likely cause a substantial reduction in the value of its common units.Failure to manage these acquisition and expansion growth risks could have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. There can be no assurance that CVR will be able to consummate any acquisitions or expansions, successfully integrate acquired entities, or generate positive cash flow at any 40acquired company or expansion project.Internally generated cash flows and other sources of liquidity may not be adequate for the capital needs of CVR's businesses.CVR's businesses are capital intensive, and working capital needs may vary significantly over relatively short periods of time. For instance, crude oil price volatility can significantly impact working capital on a week-to-week and month-to-month basis. If CVR cannot generate adequate cash flow or otherwise secure sufficient liquidity to meet our Energy segment's working capital needs or support its short-term and long-term capital requirements, it may be unable to meet its debt obligations, pursue its business strategies or comply with certain environmental standards, which would have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's business and results of operations. business and results of operations. A substantial portion of CVR's workforce is unionized and it is subject to the risk of labor disputes and adverse employee relations, which may disrupt its business and increase its costs. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 53% of the employees at the Coffeyville refinery and 62% of the employees at the Wynnewood refinery were represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements. At Coffeyville, the collective bargaining agreement with six Metal Trades Unions (which covers union members who work directly at the Coffeyville refinery) is effective through March 2017, and the collective bargaining agreement with United Steelworkers (which covers the balance of CVR's unionized employees, who work in the terminal and related operations) is effective through March 2015, and automatically renews on an annual basis thereafter unless a written notice is received sixty days in advance of the relevant expiration date. The collective bargaining agreement with the International Union of Operating Engineers with respect to the Wynnewood refinery expires in June 2015. CVR may not be able to renegotiate its collective bargaining agreements when they expire on satisfactory terms or at all. A failure to do so may increase our Energy segment's costs. In addition, CVR's existing labor agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at any of its facilities in the future, and any work stoppage could negatively affect our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. New regulations concerning the transportation of hazardous chemicals, risks of terrorism and the security of chemical manufacturing facilities could result in higher operating costs.The costs of complying with future regulations relating to the transportation of hazardous chemicals and security associated with the refining and nitrogen fertilizer facilities may have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Targets such as refining and chemical manufacturing facilities may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. As a result, the petroleum and chemical industries have responded to the issues that arose due to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 by starting new initiatives relating to the security of petroleum and chemical industry facilities and the transportation of hazardous chemicals in the United States. Future terrorist attacks could lead to even stronger, more costly initiatives that could result in a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Compliance with and changes in the tax laws could adversely affect CVR's performance. CVR is subject to extensive tax liabilities, including United States and state income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise and withholding taxes. New tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed that could result in increased expenditures for tax liabilities in the future.The Refining Partnership's and the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership's level of indebtedness may increase, which would reduce their financial flexibility and the distributions they make on their common units.As of the date of this Report, the Refining Partnership had outstanding $500 million aggregate principal amount of 6.5% senior notes due 2022 and total borrowing capacity of up to $400 million under its ABL credit facility and up to $150 million under the intercompany credit facility, and the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership had $125 million of outstanding term loan borrowings, with availability of up to $25 million under its revolving credit facility. In the future, the Refining Partnership and the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership may incur additional significant indebtedness in order to make future acquisitions, expand their businesses or develop their properties. Their level of indebtedness could affect their operations in several ways, including the following: •a significant portion of their cash flows could be used to service their indebtedness, reducing available cash and their ability to make distributions on their common units (including distributions to CVR);•a high level of debt would increase their vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;•the covenants contained in their debt agreements will limit their ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay distributions and make certain investments;•a high level of debt may place them at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less leveraged, and therefore may be able to take advantage of opportunities that their indebtedness would prevent them from pursuing;41•their debt covenants may also affect flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in their industries;•a high level of debt may make it more likely that a reduction in the petroleum business' borrowing base following a periodic redetermination could require the Refining Partnership to repay a portion of its then-outstanding bank borrowings under its ABL credit facility; and•a high level of debt may impair their ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes.In addition, borrowings under their respective credit facilities and other credit facilities they may enter into in the future will bear interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, such variable-rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect their ability to make distributions to common unitholders (including CVR). In addition to debt service obligations, their operations require substantial investments on a continuing basis. Their ability to make scheduled debt payments, to refinance debt obligations and to fund capital and non-capital expenditures necessary to maintain the condition of operating assets, properties and systems software, as well as to provide capacity for the growth of their businesses, depends on their respective financial and operating performance. General economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affect their operations and their future performance. Many of these factors are beyond their control. They may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to pay the interest on their debt, and future working capital, borrowings or equity financing may not be available to pay or refinance such debt. In addition, the bank borrowing base under the Refining Partnership's ABL credit facility will be subject to periodic redeterminations. It could be forced to repay a portion of its bank borrowings due to redeterminations of its borrowing base. If it is forced to do so, it may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments. If the Refining Partnership does not have sufficient funds and is otherwise unable to negotiate renewals of its borrowings or arrange new financing, it may have to sell significant assets. Any such sale could have a material adverse effect on Refining Partnership's business and financial condition and, as a result, its ability to make distributions to common unitholders (including CVR). The Refining Partnership and the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of their indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy their debt obligations that may not be successful.The Refining Partnership's and the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership's ability to satisfy their debt obligations will depend upon, among other things:•their future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond CVR's control; and•the Refining Partnership's ability to borrow under its ABL Credit Facility and the intercompany credit facility between the Refining Partnership and us, and the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership's ability to borrow under its revolving credit facility, the availability of which depends on, among other things, compliance with their respective covenants.CVR cannot offer any assurance that its businesses will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that the Refining Partnership will be able to draw under its ABL credit facility or the intercompany credit facility, or that the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership will be able to draw under its revolving credit facility, or from other sources of financing, in an amount sufficient to fund their respective liquidity needs. If cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service their indebtedness, the Partnerships may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance their indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit them to meet their scheduled debt service obligations. Their ability to restructure or refinance debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and their financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of their debt could be at higher interest rates and may require them to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict their business operations, and the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, in the absence of adequate cash flows or capital resources, they could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations, or sell equity, in order to meet their debt service and other obligations. They may not be able to consummate those dispositions for fair market value or at all. The Refining Partnership's Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility and the indenture governing its notes and the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership's credit facility may restrict, or market or business conditions may limit, their ability to avail themselves of some or all of these options. Furthermore, any proceeds that CVR realizes from any such dispositions may not be adequate to meet their debt service obligations when due. None of CVR's stockholders or any of their respective affiliates has any continuing obligation to provide us with debt or equity financing.The borrowings under the Refining Partnership's Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility and intercompany credit facility and the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership's revolving credit facility bear interest at variable rates and other debt CVR or 42they incur could likewise be variable-rate debt. If market interest rates increase, variable-rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect their respective distributions to us. The Refining Partnership or the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership may enter into agreements limiting their exposure to higher interest rates, but any such agreements may not offer complete protection from this risk.Covenants in CVR's debt instruments could limit its ability to incur additional indebtedness and engage in certain transactions, which could adversely affect our Energy segment's liquidity and its ability to pursue its business strategies.The indenture governing the Refining Partnership's notes and the ABL credit facility and the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership's credit facility contain a number of restrictive covenants that will impose significant operating and financial restrictions on them and their subsidiaries and may limit their ability to engage in acts that may be in their long-term best interest, including restrictions on their ability, among other things, to:•incur, assume or guarantee additional debt or issue redeemable or preferred units;•make distributions or prepay, redeem, or repurchase certain debt;•enter into agreements that restrict distributions from restricted subsidiaries;•incur liens•sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries;•enter into transactions with affiliates; and•merge, consolidate or sell substantially all of their assets. In particular, the indenture governing the Refining Partnership's notes prohibits it from making distributions to unitholders (including us) if any default or event of default (as defined in the indenture) exists. In addition, the indenture contains covenants limiting the Refining Partnership's ability to pay distributions to unitholders. The covenants will apply differently depending on the Refining Partnership's fixed charge coverage ratio (as defined in the indenture). If the fixed charge coverage ratio is not less than 2.5 to 1.0, the Refining Partnership will generally be permitted to make restricted payments, including distributions to its unitholders, without substantive restriction. If the fixed charge coverage ratio is less than 2.5 to 1.0, the Refining Partnership will generally be permitted to make restricted payments, including distributions to its unitholders, up to an aggregate $100 million basket plus certain other amounts referred to as “incremental funds” under the indenture. In addition, the Refining Partnership's Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility requires it to maintain a minimum excess availability under the facility as a condition to the payment of distributions to its unitholders. The Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership's credit facility requires that, before the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership can make distributions to us, it must be in compliance with leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio tests. Any new indebtedness could have similar or greater restrictions. A breach of the covenants under the foregoing debt instruments could result in an event of default. Upon a default, unless waived, the holders of the Refining Partnership's notes and lenders under the Refining Partnership's Amended and Restated ABL Credit Facility and the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership's credit facility would have all remedies available to a secured lender, and could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans, institute foreclosure proceedings against the Refining Partnership or the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership (as applicable) or its respective subsidiaries' assets, and force it and its subsidiaries into bankruptcy or liquidation, subject to intercreditor agreements. In addition, any defaults could trigger cross defaults under other or future credit agreements or indentures. The Refining Partnership's or Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership's operating results may not be sufficient to service their indebtedness or to fund CVR's other expenditures and they may not be able to obtain financing to meet these requirements. As a result of these restrictions, they may be limited in how they conduct their respective businesses, unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns or unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities.Despite their significant indebtedness, the Refining Partnership and the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership may still be able to incur significantly more debt, including secured indebtedness. This could intensify the risks described above.The Refining Partnership and the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership may be able to incur substantially more debt in the future, including secured indebtedness. Although the Refining Partnership's ABL credit facility and the notes and the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership's credit facility contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and, under certain circumstances, indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Also, these restrictions may not prevent them from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. To the extent such new debt or new obligations are added to their existing indebtedness, the risks described above could substantially increase.43Risks Related to the Limited Partnership Structures Through Which CVR Currently Hold its Interests in the Refinery Business and the Nitrogen Fertilizer BusinessBoth the Refining Partnership and the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership currently have in place a policy to distribute all of the “available cash” each generates on a quarterly basis, which could limit their ability to grow and make acquisitions.The current policy of the board of directors of the Refining Partnership's general partner is to distribute an amount equal to the available cash the Refining Partnership generates each quarter to its unitholders, beginning with the quarter ending March 31, 2013, and the current policy of the board of directors of the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership's general partner is to distribute to Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership unitholders all of the available cash the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership generates on a quarterly basis. As a result of their respective cash distribution policies, the Refining Partnership and the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As such, to the extent they are unable to finance growth externally, their respective cash distribution policies will significantly impair their ability to grow. The board of directors of the general partner of either the Refining Partnership or the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership may modify or revoke its cash distribution policy at any time at its discretion, including in such a manner that would result in an elimination of cash distributions regardless of the amount of available cash they generate. Each board of directors will determine the cash distribution policy it deems advisable for them on an independent basis.In addition, because of their respective distribution policies, their growth, if any, may not be as robust as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent either issues additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures or as in-kind distributions, current unitholders will experience dilution and the payment of distributions on those additional units will decrease the amount each distributes in respect of each of its outstanding units. There are no limitations in their respective partnership agreements on either the Refining Partnership's or the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership's ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the outstanding common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance their growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, would reduce the available cash they have to distribute to unitholders (including CVR and us). The Refining Partnership may not have sufficient available cash to pay any quarterly distribution on its common units, and the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership may not have sufficient available cash to pay any quarterly distribution on its common units. Furthermore, neither is required to make distributions to holders of its common units on a quarterly basis or otherwise, and both may elect to distribute less than all of their respective available cash.Either or both of the Refining Partnership or the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to enable the payment of distributions to common unitholders. The Refining Partnership and the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership are separate public companies, and available cash generated by one of them will not be used to make distributions to common unitholders of the other. Furthermore, the partnership agreements do not require either to pay distributions on a quarterly basis or otherwise. The board of directors of the general partner of either the Refining Partnership or the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership may at any time, for any reason, change its cash distribution policy or decide not to make any distribution. The amount of cash they will be able to distribute in respect of their common units principally depends on the amount of cash they generate from operations, which is directly dependent upon the margins each business generates. If either of the Refining Partnership or the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership were to be treated as a corporation, rather than as a partnership, for U.S. federal income tax purposes or if either Partnership were otherwise subject to entity-level taxation, such entity's cash available for distribution to its common unitholders, including to us, would be reduced, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of such its common units, including the common units held by CVR and us.Current law requires the Refining Partnership and the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership to derive at least 90% of their respective annual gross income from certain specified activities in order to continue to be treated as a partnership, rather than as a corporation, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. One or both of them may not find it possible to meet this qualifying income requirement, or may inadvertently fail to meet this qualifying income requirement. If either the Refining Partnership or the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership were to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, they would pay U.S. federal income tax on all of their taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, they would likely pay additional state and local income taxes at varying rates, and distributions to their common unitholders, including to us, would generally be taxed as corporate distributions.44If the Refining Partnership and the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership were to be treated as corporations, rather than as partnerships, for U.S. federal income tax purposes or if they were otherwise subject to entity-level taxation, their cash available for distribution to its common unitholders, including to CVR, and the value of their common units, including the common units held by CVR, could be substantially reduced.CVR may have liability to repay distributions that are wrongfully distributed to it. Under certain circumstances, CVR may, as a holder of common units in the Refining Partnership and the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership, have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to us. Under the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, a partnership may not make distributions to its unitholders if the distribution would cause its liabilities to exceed the fair value of its assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the company for the distribution amount.Public investors own approximately 30% of the nitrogen fertilizer business through the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership and approximately 19% of the petroleum business through the Refining Partnership. Although CVR owns the majority of the common units and the general partner of both the Refining Partnership and the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership, the general partners owe a duty of good faith to public unitholders, which could cause them to manage their respective businesses differently than if there were no public unitholders.Public investors own approximately 30% of the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership's common units and approximately 19% of the Refining Partnership's common units. CVR is no longer entitled to receive all of the cash generated by the nitrogen fertilizer business or the petroleum business or freely transfer money from the nitrogen fertilizer business to finance operations at the petroleum business or vice versa. Furthermore, although CVR continues to own the majority of the common units and the general partner of both the Refining Partnership and the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership, the general partners are subject to certain fiduciary duties, which may require the general partners to manage their respective businesses in a way that may differ from CVR's best interests.The general partners of the Refining Partnership and the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership have limited their liability, replaced default fiduciary duties and restricted the remedies available to common unitholders, including CVR, for actions that, without these limitations and reductions might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. The respective partnership agreements of the Refining Partnership and the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership limit the liability and replace the fiduciary duties of their respective general partner, while also restricting the remedies available to each partnership's common unitholders, including CVR, for actions that, without these limitations and reductions, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Delaware partnership law permits such contractual reductions of fiduciary duty. The partnership agreements contain provisions that replace the standards to which each general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, the partnership agreements:•permit each partnership's general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to its capacity as general partner. This entitles its general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and means that it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, any limited partner.•provide that each partnership's general partner will not have any liability to unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as (i) in the case of the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership, it acted in good faith, meaning it believed that the decision was in the best interest of the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership and (ii) in the case of the Refining Partnership, it did not make such decisions in bad faith, meaning it believed that the decisions were adverse to the Refining Partnership's interests.•provide that each partnership's general partner and the officers and directors of its general partner will not be liable for monetary damages to common unitholders, including CVR, for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that (i) in the case of the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership, the general partner or its officers or directors acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct, or in, the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal and (ii) in the case of the Refining Partnership, such losses or liabilities were the result of the conduct of its general partner or such officer or director engaged in by it in bad faith or with respect to any criminal conduct, with the knowledge that its conduct was unlawful.In addition, the Refining Partnership's partnership agreement provides that its general partner will not be in breach of its obligations thereunder or its duties to the Refining Partnership or its limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is either (i) approved by the conflicts committee of its board of directors of the general partner, although the general partner is not obligated to seek such approval; or (ii) approved by the vote of a majority of the 45outstanding units, excluding any units owned by the general partner and its affiliates. In addition, the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership's partnership agreement (i) generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of its general partner and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership, as determined by its general partner in good faith, and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” the general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to affiliated parties, including CVR and (ii) provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision, the general partner or its conflicts committee acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any holder of common units, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption.With respect to the common units that CVR owns, it has agreed to be bound by the provisions set forth in each partnership agreement, including the provisions described above.The Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership and the Refining Partnership are managed by the executive officers of their general partners, some of whom are employed by and serve as part of the senior management team of CVR and its affiliates. Conflicts of interest could arise as a result of this arrangement.The Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership and the Refining Partnership is each managed by the executive officers of their general partners, some of whom are employed by and serve as part of the senior management team of CVR. Furthermore, although both the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership and the Refining Partnership have entered into services agreements with CVR under which they compensate CVR for the services of its management, CVR's management is not required to devote any specific amount of time to the nitrogen fertilizer business or the petroleum business and may devote a substantial majority of their time to the business of CVR. Moreover CVR may terminate the services agreement with the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership at any time, subject to a 180-day notice period, and commencing with the first anniversary of the Refining Partnership's IPO, may terminate the services agreement with the Refining Partnership, at any time, subject to a 180-day notice period. In addition, key executive officers of CVR, including its chief operating officer, chief financial officer and general counsel, will face conflicts of interest if decisions arise in which the Nitrogen Fertilizer Partnership or the Refining Partnership and CVR has conflicting points of view or interests.Risks Relating to CVR's Petroleum BusinessAs a stand-alone public company, the Refining Partnership is exposed to risks relating to evaluations of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.The Refining Partnership is in the process of evaluating its internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and CVR's independent auditors to audit, its internal control over financial reporting. It will be performing the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and under current rules will be required to comply with Section 404 for the year ended December 31, 2013. Upon completion of this process, the Refining Partnership may identify control deficiencies of varying degrees of severity under applicable SEC and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) rules and regulations that remain unremediated. Although the Refining Partnership produces financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”), internal accounting controls may not currently meet all standards applicable to companies with publicly traded securities. As a publicly traded partnership, it will be required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness” or changes in internal controls that, or that are reasonably likely to, materially affect internal control over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.If the Refining Partnership fails to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, it might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC. If it does not implement improvements to its disclosure controls and procedures or to its internal controls in a timely manner, its independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting pursuant to an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. This may subject the Refining Partnership to adverse regulatory consequences or a loss of confidence in the reliability of its financial statements. It could also suffer a loss of confidence in the reliability of its financial statements if its independent registered public accounting firm reports a material weakness in its internal controls, if it does not develop and maintain effective controls and procedures or if it is otherwise unable to deliver timely and reliable financial information. Any loss of confidence in the reliability of its financial statements or other negative reaction to its failure to develop timely or 46adequate disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls could result in a decline in the price of its common units, which would reduce the value of CVR's investment in the Refining Partnership. In addition, if the Refining Partnership fails to remedy any material weakness, its financial statements may be inaccurate, it may face restricted access to the capital markets and the price of its common units may be adversely affected, which would reduce the value of our investment in the Refining Partnership.The Refining Partnership will incur increased costs as a result of being a publicly traded partnership. As a result of the Refining Partnership's IPO, it will incur significant incremental legal, accounting and other expenses that did not incur when it was operated as a wholly-owned non-public subsidiary of CVR Energy. In particular, the Refining Partnership is now subject to the public reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). SEC reporting requirements will increase its legal and financial compliance costs and make compliance activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the NYSE, require, or will require, publicly traded entities to adopt various corporate governance practices that will further increase CVR's costs. As a result, the amount of cash the Refining Partnership has available for distribution to its unitholders (including us) will be affected by its expenses, including the costs associated with being a publicly traded partnership. The Refining Partnership estimates that it will incur approximately $5 million of estimated incremental costs per year, some of which will be direct charges associated with being a publicly traded partnership, and some of which will be allocated to the Refining Partnership by CVR Energy; however, it is possible that the actual incremental costs of being a publicly traded partnership will be higher than currently estimated.The price volatility of crude oil and other feedstocks, refined products and utility services may have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's earnings, profitability and cash flows.Our Energy segment's financial results related to its petroleum business are primarily affected by the relationship, or margin, between refined product prices and the prices for crude oil and other feedstocks. When the margin between refined product prices and crude oil and other feedstock prices tightens, our Energy segment's earnings, profitability and cash flows are negatively affected. Refining margins historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile, as a result of a variety of factors including fluctuations in prices of crude oil, other feedstocks and refined products. Continued future volatility in refining industry margins may cause a decline in our Energy segment's results of operations, since the margin between refined product prices and crude oil and other feedstock prices may decrease below the amount needed for Energy operations to generate net cash flow sufficient for their needs. Although an increase or decrease in the price for crude oil generally results in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products, there is normally a time lag in the realization of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. The effect of changes in crude oil prices on our Energy segment's results of operations therefore depends in part on how quickly and how fully refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes. A substantial or prolonged increase in crude oil prices without a corresponding increase in refined product prices, or a substantial or prolonged decrease in refined product prices without a corresponding decrease in crude oil prices, could have a significant negative impact on our Energy segment's earnings, results of operations and cash flows.Our Energy segment's profitability is also impacted by the ability to purchase crude oil at a discount to benchmark crude oils, such as West Texas Intermediate crude oil, or WTI, as CVR does not produce any crude oil and must purchase all of the crude oil it refines. Crude oil differentials can fluctuate significantly based upon overall economic and crude oil market conditions. Declines in crude oil differentials can adversely impact refining margins, earnings and cash flows. For example, infrastructure and logistical improvements could result in a reduction of the WTI-Brent differential that has recently provided our Energy segment with increased profitability. In addition, CVR's purchases of crude oil, although based on WTI prices, have historically been at a discount to WTI because of CVR's proximity to the sources, existing logistics infrastructure and quality differences. Any change in the sources of CVR's crude oil, infrastructure or logistical improvements or quality differences could result in a reduction of its historical discount to WTI and may result in a reduction of CVR's cost advantage.Refining margins are also impacted by domestic and global refining capacity. Downturns in the economy reduce the demand for refined fuels and, in turn, generate excess capacity. In addition, the expansion and construction of refineries domestically and globally can increase refined fuel production capacity. Excess capacity can adversely impact refining margins, earnings and cash flows. During 2011 and 2012, favorable crack spreads and access to a variety of price-advantaged crude oils resulted in higher Adjusted EBITDA and cash flow generation that was greater than usual. There can be no assurance that these favorable conditions will continue and, in fact, crack spreads, refining margins and crude oil prices could decline, possibly materially, at any time. In particular, Enbridge Inc.'s purchase of 50% of the Seaway crude oil pipeline and the recent reversal of the pipeline to make it flow from Cushing to the U.S. Gulf Coast and the Seaway capacity expansion project may contribute to the decline of such favorable conditions by providing mid-continent producers with the ability to transport crude oil to Gulf Coast refiners in an economic manner. Crude oil began flowing through the Seaway Pipeline from Cushing to the Gulf Coast in May 2012, and an expansion project increasing total capacity from 150,000 bpd to 400,000 bpd was completed in January 2013. Moreover, 47the planned construction of a loop (twin) of the Seaway Pipeline, a new pipeline designed to parallel the existing right-of-way from Cushing to the Gulf Coast, is expected to more than double Seaway's capacity to 850,000 bpd by mid-2014. A significant deterioration of the current favorable conditions would have a material adverse effect on the petroleum business' earnings, results of operations and cash flows. Volatile prices for natural gas and electricity also affect our Energy operations' manufacturing and operating costs. Natural gas prices reached ten-year lows in 2012. Natural gas and electricity prices have been, and will continue to be, affected by supply and demand for fuel and utility services in both local and regional markets. If CVR is required to obtain its crude oil supply without the benefit of a crude oil supply agreement, its exposure to the risks associated with volatile crude oil prices may increase and our Energy segment's liquidity may be reduced. Since December 31, 2009, the petroleum business has obtained substantially all of its crude oil supply for the Coffeyville refinery, other than the crude oil it gathers, through the Vitol Agreement. The Vitol Agreement was amended and restated on August 31, 2012 to include the provision of crude oil intermediation services to the Wynnewood refinery. The agreement, whose initial term expires on December 31, 2014, minimizes the amount of in-transit inventory and mitigates crude oil pricing risks by ensuring pricing takes place close to the time when the crude oil is refined and the yielded products are sold. If the petroleum business were required to obtain its crude oil supply without the benefit of a supply intermediation agreement, its exposure to crude oil pricing risks may increase, despite any hedging activity in which it may engage, and its liquidity would be negatively impacted due to increased inventory and the negative impact of market volatility. Disruption of the petroleum business' ability to obtain an adequate supply of crude oil could reduce its liquidity and increase its costs. For the Coffeyville refinery, in addition to the crude oil the petroleum business gathers locally in Kansas, Oklahoma, Missouri, and Nebraska, it purchased an additional 70,000 to 75,000 bpd of crude oil to be refined into liquid fuels in 2012. Although the Wynnewood refinery has historically acquired most of its crude oil from Texas and Oklahoma, it also purchases crude oil from other regions. Coffeyville obtains a portion of its non-gathered crude oil, approximately 17% in 2012, from foreign sources and Wynnewood obtained approximately 7% of its non-gathered crude oil from foreign sources as well. The majority of these foreign sourced crude oil barrels were derived from Canada. The actual amount of foreign crude oil the petroleum business purchases is dependent on market conditions and will vary from year to year. The petroleum business is subject to the political, geographic, and economic risks attendant to doing business with foreign suppliers. Disruption of production in any of these regions for any reason could have a material impact on other regions and the petroleum business. In the event that one or more of its traditional suppliers becomes unavailable, the petroleum business may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of crude oil, or it may only be able to obtain crude oil at unfavorable prices. As a result, the petroleum business may experience a reduction in its liquidity and its results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If CVR's access to the pipelines on which the petroleum business relies for the supply of its crude oil and the distribution of its products is interrupted, its inventory and costs may increase and it may be unable to efficiently distribute its products. If one of the pipelines on which either of the Coffeyville or Wynnewood refineries relies for supply of crude oil becomes inoperative, the petroleum business would be required to obtain crude oil through alternative pipelines or from additional tanker trucks, which could increase its costs and result in lower production levels and profitability. Similarly, if a major refined fuels pipeline becomes inoperative, the petroleum business would be required to keep refined fuels in inventory or supply refined fuels to its customers through an alternative pipeline or by additional tanker trucks, which could increase the petroleum business' costs and result in a decline in profitability.The geographic concentration of the petroleum business' refineries and related assets creates an exposure to the risks of the local economy and other local adverse conditions. The location of its refineries also creates the risk of increased transportation costs should the supply/demand balance change in its region such that regional supply exceeds regional demand for refined products. As the refineries are both located in the southern portion of Group 3 of the PADD II region, the petroleum business primarily markets its refined products in a relatively limited geographic area. As a result, it is more susceptible to regional economic conditions than the operations of more geographically diversified competitors, and any unforeseen events or circumstances that affect its operating area could also materially adversely affect its revenues and cash flows. These factors include, among other things, changes in the economy, weather conditions, demographics and population, increased supply of refined products from competitors and reductions in the supply of crude oil. Should the supply/demand balance shift in its region as a result of changes in the local economy, an increase in refining capacity or other reasons, resulting in supply in the region exceeding demand, the petroleum business may have to deliver refined products to customers outside of the region and thus incur considerably higher transportation costs, resulting in lower refining margins, if any.48If sufficient Renewable Identification Numbers (RINs) are unavailable for purchase or if the petroleum business has to pay a significantly higher price for RINs, or if the petroleum business is otherwise unable to meet the EPA's Renewable Fuels Standard mandates, the petroleum business' financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Pursuant to the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, the EPA, has promulgated the Renewable Fuel Standard, or RFS, which requires refiners to blend “renewable fuels,” such as ethanol, with their petroleum fuels or purchase renewable energy credits, known as renewable identification numbers ("RINs"), in lieu of blending. Under the RFS, the volume of renewable fuels refineries like Coffeyville and Wynnewood are obligated to blend into their finished petroleum products increases annually over time until 2022. Beginning in 2011, the Coffeyville refinery was required to blend renewable fuels into its gasoline and diesel fuel or purchase RINs in lieu of blending. The Wynnewood refinery is required to comply beginning in 2013. The petroleum business currently purchases RINs for some fuel categories on the open market, as well as waiver credits for cellulosic biofuels from the EPA, in order to comply with the RFS. Existing laws or regulations could change, and the minimum volumes of renewable fuels that must be blended with refined petroleum products may increase. In the future, the petroleum business may be required to purchase additional RINs on the open market and waiver credits from EPA in order to comply with the RFS. Recently the price of RINS has been extremely volatile with pricing increases. The petroleum business cannot predict the future prices of RINs or waiver credits, but the costs to obtain the necessary number of RINs and waiver credits could be material. Additionally, because the petroleum business does not produce renewable fuels, increasing the volume of renewable fuels that must be blended into its products displaces an increasing volume of the refineries' product pool, potentially resulting in lower earning and materially adversely affecting the petroleum business' cash flows. If the petroleum business is unable to pass the costs of compliance with RFS on to customers, the petroleum business' profits would be significantly lower. Moreover, if sufficient RINs are unavailable for purchase or if the petroleum business has to pay a significantly higher price for RINs, or if the petroleum business is otherwise unable to meet the EPA's RFS mandates, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.CVR's petroleum business faces significant competition, both within and outside of its industry. Competitors who produce their own supply of crude oil or other feedstocks, have extensive retail outlets, make alternative fuels or have greater financial resources than it does may have a competitive advantage. The refining industry is highly competitive with respect to both crude oil and other feedstock supply and refined product markets. The petroleum business may be unable to compete effectively with competitors within and outside of the industry, which could result in reduced profitability. The petroleum business competes with numerous other companies for available supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks and for outlets for its refined products. The petroleum business is not engaged in the petroleum exploration and production business and therefore it does not produce any of its crude oil feedstocks. It does not have a retail business and therefore is dependent upon others for outlets for its refined products. It does not have any long-term arrangements (those exceeding more than a twelve-month period) for much of its output. Many of its competitors obtain significant portions of their crude oil and other feedstocks from company-owned production and have extensive retail outlets. Competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets with brand-name recognition are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. A number of the petroleum business' competitors also have materially greater financial and other resources than it does. These competitors may have a greater ability to bear the economic risks inherent in all aspects of the refining industry. An expansion or upgrade of its competitors' facilities, price volatility, international political and economic developments and other factors are likely to continue to play an important role in refining industry economics and may add additional competitive pressure. In addition, the petroleum business competes with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of its industrial, commercial and individual customers. There are presently significant governmental incentives and consumer pressures to increase the use of alternative fuels in the United States. The more successful these alternatives become as a result of governmental incentives or regulations, technological advances, consumer demand, improved pricing or otherwise, the greater the negative impact on pricing and demand for the petroleum business' products and profitability.Changes in the petroleum business' credit profile may affect its relationship with its suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and its ability to operate the refineries at full capacity. Changes in the petroleum business' credit profile may affect the way crude oil suppliers view its ability to make payments and may induce them to shorten the payment terms for purchases or require it to post security prior to payment. Given the large dollar amounts and volume of the petroleum business' crude oil and other feedstock purchases, a burdensome change in payment terms may have a material adverse effect on the petroleum business' liquidity and its ability to make payments to its 49suppliers. This, in turn, could cause it to be unable to operate the refineries at full capacity. A failure to operate the refineries at full capacity could adversely affect the petroleum business' profitability and cash flows.CVR's commodity derivative contracts may limit our Energy segment's potential gains, exacerbate potential losses and involve other risks.The petroleum business enters into commodity derivatives contracts to mitigate crack spread risk with respect to a portion of its expected refined products production. However, its hedging arrangements may fail to fully achieve these objectives for a variety of reasons, including its failure to have adequate hedging contracts, if any, in effect at any particular time and the failure of its hedging arrangements to produce the anticipated results. The petroleum business may not be able to procure adequate hedging arrangements due to a variety of factors. Moreover, such transactions may limit its ability to benefit from favorable changes in margins. In addition, the petroleum business' hedging activities may expose it to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: •the volumes of its actual use of crude oil or production of the applicable refined products is less than the volumes subject to the hedging arrangement;•the counterparties to its futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or•a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts the commodity or crack spread subject to the hedging arrangement.As a result, the effectiveness of CVR's risk mitigation strategy could have a material adverse impact on our Energy segment's financial results and cash flows. The adoption of derivatives legislation by the U.S. Congress could have an adverse effect on CVR's ability to hedge risks associated with our Energy segment's petroleum business. The U.S. Congress has adopted the Dodd-Frank Act, comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market, and requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, or the CFTC, to institute broad new position limits for futures and options traded on regulated exchanges. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the CFTC and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation. The rulemaking process is still ongoing, and CVR cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the rulemakings. New regulations in this area may result in increased costs and cash collateral requirements for derivative instruments CVR may use to hedge and otherwise manage its financial risks related to volatility in oil and gas commodity prices. CVR must make substantial capital expenditures on its refineries and other facilities to maintain their reliability and efficiency. If CVR is unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and/or in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in its project economics deteriorate, our Energy segment's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. Delays or cost increases related to the engineering, procurement and construction of new facilities, or improvements and repairs to CVR's existing facilities and equipment, could have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors in the marketplace, many of which are beyond CVR's control, including:•denial or delay in obtaining regulatory approvals and/or permits;•unplanned increases in the cost of equipment, materials or labor;•disruptions in transportation of equipment and materials;•severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting the petroleum business' facilities, or those of its vendors and suppliers;•shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages;•market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and/or•nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with, the petroleum business' vendors, suppliers, contractors or sub-contractors.The Coffeyville and Wynnewood refineries have been in operation for many years. Equipment, even if properly maintained, may require significant capital expenditures and expenses to keep it operating at optimum efficiency. For example, the petroleum business spent approximately $89 million on the most recently completed turnaround at the Coffeyville refinery and incurred approximately $102 million associated with the turnaround for the Wynnewood refinery, which the petroleum business completed in December 2012. These costs do not result in increases in unit capacities, but rather focus on efforts to maintain safe, reliable operations. Any one or more of these occurrences noted above could have a significant impact on our Energy segment's business. If CVR were unable to make up the delays or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and 50adversely affect our Energy segment's financial position, results of operations or cash flows.CVR's plans to expand the gathering assets making up part of its supporting logistics businesses, which assist us in reducing its costs and increasing its processing margins, may expose our Energy segment to significant additional risks, compliance costs and liabilities.CVR plans to continue to make investments to enhance the operating flexibility of its refineries and to improve its crude oil sourcing advantage through additional investments in its gathering and logistics operations. If CVR is able to successfully increase the effectiveness of its supporting logistics businesses, including its crude oil gathering operations, it believes it will be able to enhance its crude oil sourcing flexibility and reduce related crude oil purchasing and delivery costs. However, the acquisition of infrastructure assets to expand CVR's gathering operations may expose our Energy segment to risks in the future that are different than or incremental to the risks our Energy segment faces with respect to its refineries and existing gathering and logistics operations. The storage and transportation of liquid hydrocarbons, including crude oil and refined products, are subject to stringent federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, operational safety and related matters. Compliance with these laws and regulations could adversely affect our Energy segment's operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Moreover, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial liabilities, the issuance of injunctions that may restrict or prohibit CVR's operations, or claims of damages to property or persons resulting from its operations.Any businesses or assets that CVR may acquire in connection with an expansion of its crude oil gathering operations could expose it to the risk of releasing hazardous materials into the environment. These releases would expose our Energy segment to potentially substantial expenses, including cleanup and remediation costs, fines and penalties, and third party claims for personal injury or property damage related to past or future releases. Accordingly, if CVR does acquire any such businesses or assets, our Energy segment could also incur additional expenses not covered by insurance which could be material.More stringent trucking regulations may increase CVR's costs and negatively impact our Energy segment's results of operations.In connection with the trucking operations conducted by CVR's crude gathering division, it operates as a motor carrier and therefore is subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation (the “U.S. DOT”) and various state agencies. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers, governing activities such as the authorization to engage in motor carrier operations and regulatory safety, and hazardous materials labeling, placarding and marking. There are additional regulations specifically relating to the trucking industry, including testing and specification of equipment and product handling requirements. The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by changing the demand for common or contract carrier services or the cost of providing truckload services. Some of these possible changes include increasingly stringent environmental regulations, changes in the hours of service regulations that govern the amount of time a driver may drive in any specific period, onboard black box recorder devices or limits on vehicle weight and size.To a large degree, intrastate motor carrier operations are subject to state safety regulations that mirror federal regulations. Such matters as weight and dimension of equipment are also subject to federal and state regulations. Furthermore, from time to time, various legislative proposals are introduced, such as proposals to increase federal, state or local taxes, including taxes on motor fuels, which may increase our Energy segment's costs or adversely impact the recruitment of drivers. CVR cannot predict whether, or in what form, any increase in such taxes will be enacted or the extent to which they will apply to our Energy segment and its operations.Risks Relating to CVR's Nitrogen Fertilizer BusinessThe nitrogen fertilizer business is, and nitrogen fertilizer prices are, cyclical and highly volatile, and the nitrogen fertilizer business has experienced substantial downturns in the past. Cycles in demand and pricing could potentially expose the nitrogen fertilizer business to significant fluctuations in its operating and financial results and have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The nitrogen fertilizer business is exposed to fluctuations in nitrogen fertilizer demand in the agricultural industry. These fluctuations historically have had and could in the future have significant effects on prices across all nitrogen fertilizer products and, in turn, our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Nitrogen fertilizer products are commodities, the price of which can be highly volatile. The prices of nitrogen fertilizer products depend on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, cyclical trends in end-user markets, supply and 51demand imbalances, and weather conditions, which have a greater relevance because of the seasonal nature of fertilizer application. If seasonal demand exceeds the projections on which the nitrogen fertilizer business bases production, customers may acquire nitrogen fertilizer products from competitors, and the profitability of the nitrogen fertilizer business will be negatively impacted. If seasonal demand is less than expected, the nitrogen fertilizer business will be left with excess inventory that will have to be stored or liquidated.Demand for nitrogen fertilizer products is dependent on demand for crop nutrients by the global agricultural industry. Nitrogen-based fertilizers are currently in high demand, driven by a growing world population, changes in dietary habits and an expanded use of corn for the production of ethanol. Supply is affected by available capacity and operating rates, raw material costs, government policies and global trade. A decrease in nitrogen fertilizer prices would have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.The costs associated with operating the nitrogen fertilizer plant are largely fixed. If nitrogen fertilizer prices fall below a certain level, the nitrogen fertilizer business may not generate sufficient revenue to operate profitably or cover its costs.Unlike CVR's competitors, whose primary costs are related to the purchase of natural gas and whose costs are therefore largely variable, the nitrogen fertilizer business has largely fixed costs that are not dependent on the price of natural gas because it uses pet coke as the primary feedstock in the nitrogen fertilizer plant. As a result of the fixed cost nature of our Energy segment's operations, downtime, interruptions or low productivity due to reduced demand, adverse weather conditions, equipment failure, a decrease in nitrogen fertilizer prices or other causes can result in significant operating losses which could have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Continued low natural gas prices could impact the nitrogen fertilizer business' relative competitive position when compared to other nitrogen fertilizer producers.Most nitrogen fertilizer manufacturers rely on natural gas as their primary feedstock, and the cost of natural gas, which reached ten-year lows in 2012, is a large component of the total production cost for natural gas-based nitrogen fertilizer manufacturers. The dramatic increase in nitrogen fertilizer prices in recent years has not been the direct result of an increase in natural gas prices, but rather the result of increased demand for nitrogen-based fertilizers due to historically low stocks of global grains and a surge in the prices of corn and wheat, the primary crops in the nitrogen fertilizer business' region. This increase in demand for nitrogen-based fertilizers has created an environment in which nitrogen fertilizer prices have disconnected from their traditional correlation with natural gas prices. Low natural gas prices benefit the nitrogen fertilizer business' competitors and disproportionately impact our operations by making the nitrogen fertilizer business less competitive with natural gas-based nitrogen fertilizer manufacturers. Continued low natural gas prices could impair the nitrogen fertilizer business' ability to compete with other nitrogen fertilizer producers who utilize natural gas as their primary feedstock if nitrogen fertilizer pricing drops as a result of low natural gas prices, and therefore have a material adverse impact on the cash flows of the nitrogen fertilizer business. In addition, if low natural gas prices in the United States were to prompt those U.S. producers who have permanently or temporarily closed production facilities to resume fertilizer production, this would likely contribute to a global supply/demand imbalance that could negatively affect nitrogen fertilizer prices and therefore have a material adverse effect on the nitrogen fertilizer business' results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Any decline in U.S. agricultural production or limitations on the use of nitrogen fertilizer for agricultural purposes could have a material adverse effect on the sales of nitrogen fertilizer, and on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Conditions in the U.S. agricultural industry significantly impact the operating results of the nitrogen fertilizer business. The U.S. agricultural industry can be affected by a number of factors, including weather patterns and field conditions, current and projected grain inventories and prices, domestic and international population changes, demand for U.S. agricultural products and U.S. and foreign policies regarding trade in agricultural products.State and federal governmental policies, including farm and biofuel subsidies and commodity support programs, as well as the prices of fertilizer products, may also directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the mix of crops planted and the use of fertilizers for particular agricultural applications. Developments in crop technology, such as nitrogen fixation (the conversion of atmospheric nitrogen into compounds that plants can assimilate), could also reduce the use of chemical fertilizers and adversely affect the demand for nitrogen fertilizer. In addition, from time to time various state legislatures have considered limitations on the use and application of chemical fertilizers due to concerns about the impact of these products on the environment. Unfavorable state and federal governmental policies could negatively affect nitrogen fertilizer prices and therefore have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.A major factor underlying the current high level of demand for nitrogen-based fertilizer products is the production of ethanol. A decrease in ethanol production, an increase in ethanol imports or a shift away from corn as a principal raw material used to produce ethanol could have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 52A major factor underlying the current high level of demand for nitrogen-based fertilizer products produced by the nitrogen fertilizer business is the production of ethanol in the United States and the use of corn in ethanol production. Ethanol production in the United States is highly dependent upon a myriad of federal statutes and regulations, and is made significantly more competitive by various federal and state incentives, mandated usage and production of ethanol pursuant to federal renewable fuel standards, such as E10 and E15, gasoline blends with 10% and 15% ethanol, respectively. However, a number of factors, including the drought in the Midwest and Great Plains regions, the continuing “food versus fuel” debate and studies showing that expanded ethanol usage may increase the level of greenhouse gases in the environment as well as be unsuitable for small engine use, have resulted in calls to reduce subsidies for ethanol, allow increased ethanol imports and to repeal or adopt temporary waivers of the current renewable fuel standard, any of which could have an adverse effect on corn-based ethanol production, planted corn acreage and fertilizer demand. The nation's fiscal crisis also establishes a situation in which all tax incentives, treatments and credits are being considered as a means to resolve the deficit situation. Therefore, ethanol incentive programs may not be renewed, or if renewed, they may be renewed on terms significantly less favorable to ethanol producers than current incentive programs. For example, on December 31, 2011, Congress allowed both the 45 cents per gallon ethanol tax credit and the 54 cents per gallon ethanol import tariff to expire. In other action, the EPA's proposed E15 RFS will continue to be challenged in court and legislative action. These actions could have a material adverse effect on ethanol production in the United States, which could have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Further, most ethanol is currently produced from corn and other raw grains, such as milo or sorghum - especially in the Midwest. The current RFS mandate also requires the percentage of ethanol production and usage in the United States to come from cellulose-based biomass, such as agricultural waste, forest residue, municipal solid waste and energy crops (plants grown for use to make biofuels or directly exploited for their energy content).The federal act to implement the RFS required oil companies to blend 250 million gallons of cellulosic ethanol into their gasoline by 2011. The mandate doubled this amount for 2012, and by 2022 it will be 16 billion gallons. Very little cellulosic ethanol is available in the commercial market, and on January 25, 2013, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia ruled that such a mandate needs to be revised. Congress will consider legislation to revise the cellulosic ethanol mandate. The trend, however, is to move to other products for ethanol production. If this trend is successful, the demand for corn may decrease significantly, which could reduce demand for nitrogen fertilizer products and have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Nitrogen fertilizer products are global commodities, and the nitrogen fertilizer business faces intense competition from other nitrogen fertilizer producers.The nitrogen fertilizer business is subject to intense price competition from both U.S. and foreign sources, including competitors operating in the Persian Gulf, the Asia-Pacific region, the Caribbean, Russia and the Ukraine. Fertilizers are global commodities, with little or no product differentiation, and customers make their purchasing decisions principally on the basis of delivered price and availability of the product. Furthermore, in recent years the price of nitrogen fertilizer in the United States has been substantially driven by pricing in the global fertilizer market. The nitrogen fertilizer business competes with a number of U.S. producers and producers in other countries, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. Some competitors have greater total resources and are less dependent on earnings from fertilizer sales, which makes them less vulnerable to industry downturns and better positioned to pursue new expansion and development opportunities. The nitrogen fertilizer business' competitive position could suffer to the extent it is not able to expand its resources either through investments in new or existing operations or through acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships, or otherwise compete successfully in the global nitrogen fertilizer market. An inability to compete successfully could result in a loss of customers, which could adversely affect the sales, profitability and the cash flows of the nitrogen fertilizer business and therefore have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.The nitrogen fertilizer business is seasonal, which may result in it carrying significant amounts of inventory and seasonal variations in working capital. CVR's inability to predict future seasonal nitrogen fertilizer demand accurately may result in excess inventory or product shortages.The nitrogen fertilizer business is seasonal. Farmers tend to apply nitrogen fertilizer during two short application periods, one in the spring and the other in the fall. The strongest demand for nitrogen fertilizer products typically occurs during the planting season. In contrast, the nitrogen fertilizer business and other nitrogen fertilizer producers generally produce products throughout the year. As a result, the nitrogen fertilizer business and its customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. The seasonality of nitrogen fertilizer demand results in sales volumes and net sales being highest during the North American spring season and working capital requirements typically being highest just prior to the start of the spring season.If seasonal demand exceeds projections, the nitrogen fertilizer business will not have enough product and its customers may acquire products from its competitors, which would negatively impact profitability. If seasonal demand is less than 53expected, the nitrogen fertilizer business will be left with excess inventory and higher working capital and liquidity requirements.The degree of seasonality of the nitrogen fertilizer business can change significantly from year to year due to conditions in the agricultural industry and other factors. As a consequence of such seasonality, it is expected that the distributions CVR receives from the nitrogen fertilizer business will be volatile and will vary quarterly and annually.Adverse weather conditions during peak fertilizer application periods may have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, because the agricultural customers of the nitrogen fertilizer business are geographically concentrated. The nitrogen fertilizer business' sales to agricultural customers are concentrated in the Great Plains and Midwest states and are seasonal in nature. The nitrogen fertilizer business' quarterly results may vary significantly from one year to the next due largely to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchase patterns. For example, the nitrogen fertilizer business generates greater net sales and operating income in the first half of the year, which is referred to herein as the planting season, compared to the second half of the year. Accordingly, an adverse weather pattern affecting agriculture in these regions or during the planting season could have a negative effect on fertilizer demand, which could, in turn, result in a material decline in the nitrogen fertilizer business' net sales and margins and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The nitrogen fertilizer business' quarterly results may vary significantly from one year to the next due largely to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchase patterns. As a result, it is expected that the nitrogen fertilizer business' distributions to holders of its common units (including CVR) will be volatile and will vary quarterly and annually.The nitrogen fertilizer business' operations are dependent on third party suppliers, including Linde, which owns an air separation plant that provides oxygen, nitrogen and compressed dry air to its gasifiers, and the City of Coffeyville, which supplies the nitrogen fertilizer business with electricity. A deterioration in the financial condition of a third party supplier, a mechanical problem with the air separation plant, or the inability of a third-party supplier to perform in accordance with its contractual obligations could have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.The operations of the nitrogen fertilizer business depend in large part on the performance of third party suppliers, including Linde for the supply of oxygen, nitrogen and compressed dry air, and the City of Coffeyville for the supply of electricity. With respect to Linde, operations could be adversely affected if there were a deterioration in Linde's financial condition such that the operation of the air separation plant located adjacent to the nitrogen fertilizer plant was disrupted. Additionally, this air separation plant in the past has experienced numerous short-term interruptions, causing interruptions in gasifier operations. With respect to electricity, in 2010, the nitrogen fertilizer business settled litigation with the City of Coffeyville regarding the price they sought to charge the nitrogen fertilizer business for electricity and entered into an amended and restated electric services agreement which gives the nitrogen fertilizer business an option to extend the term of such agreement through June 30, 2024. Should Linde, the City of Coffeyville or any of its other third party suppliers fail to perform in accordance with existing contractual arrangements, operations could be forced to halt. Alternative sources of supply could be difficult to obtain. Any shutdown of operations at the nitrogen fertilizer plant, even for a limited period, could have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our Energy segment's nitrogen fertilizer business' results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected by the supply and price levels of pet coke.The profitability of the nitrogen fertilizer business is directly affected by the price and availability of pet coke obtained from CVR's Coffeyville refinery pursuant to a long-term agreement and pet coke purchased from third parties, both of which vary based on market prices. Pet coke is a key raw material used by the nitrogen fertilizer business in the manufacture of nitrogen fertilizer products. If pet coke costs increase, the nitrogen fertilizer business may not be able to increase its prices to recover these increased costs, because market prices for nitrogen fertilizer products are not correlated with pet coke prices.The nitrogen fertilizer business may not be able to maintain an adequate supply of pet coke. In addition, it could experience production delays or cost increases if alternative sources of supply prove to be more expensive or difficult to obtain. The nitrogen fertilizer business currently purchases 100% of the pet coke the Coffeyville refinery produces. Accordingly, if the nitrogen fertilizer business increases production, it will be more dependent on pet coke purchases from third party suppliers at open market prices. The nitrogen fertilizer business entered into a pet coke supply agreement with HollyFrontier Corporation which became effective on March 1, 2012. The initial term ends in December 2013 and the agreement is subject to renewal. There is no assurance that the nitrogen fertilizer business would be able to purchase pet coke on comparable terms from third parties or at all.54The nitrogen fertilizer business relies on third-party providers of transportation services and equipment, which subjects it to risks and uncertainties beyond its control that may have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The nitrogen fertilizer business relies on railroad and trucking companies to ship finished products to its customers. The nitrogen fertilizer business also leases railcars from railcar owners in order to ship its finished products. These transportation operations, equipment and services are subject to various hazards, including extreme weather conditions, work stoppages, delays, spills, derailments and other accidents and other operating hazards.These transportation operations, equipment and services are also subject to environmental, safety and other regulatory oversight. Due to concerns related to terrorism or accidents, local, state and federal governments could implement new regulations affecting the transportation of the nitrogen fertilizer business' finished products. In addition, new regulations could be implemented affecting the equipment used to ship its finished products.Any delay in the nitrogen fertilizer business' ability to ship its finished products as a result of these transportation companies' failure to operate properly, the implementation of new and more stringent regulatory requirements affecting transportation operations or equipment, or significant increases in the cost of these services or equipment could have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's fertilizer business' results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our Energy segment's nitrogen fertilizer business' results of operations are highly dependent upon and fluctuate based upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry. These factors are outside of our Energy segment's control and may significantly affect our Energy segment's profitability. The nitrogen fertilizer business' results of operations are highly dependent upon business and economic conditions and governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, which CVR cannot control. The agricultural products business can be affected by a number of factors. The most important of these factors in the United States are:•weather patterns and field conditions (particularly during periods of traditionally high nitrogen fertilizer consumption);•quantities of nitrogen fertilizers imported to and exported from North America;•current and projected grain inventories and prices, which are heavily influenced by U.S. exports and world-wide grain markets; and•U.S. governmental policies, including farm and biofuel policies, which may directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the level of grain inventories, the mix of crops planted or crop prices.International market conditions may also significantly influence its operating results. The international market for nitrogen fertilizers is influenced by such factors as the relative value of the U.S. dollar and its impact upon the cost of importing nitrogen fertilizers, foreign agricultural policies, the existence of, or changes in, import or foreign currency exchange barriers in certain foreign markets, changes in the hard currency demands of certain countries and other regulatory policies of foreign governments, as well as the laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade and investment.Ammonia can be very volatile and extremely hazardous. Any liability for accidents involving ammonia or other products CVR produces or transports that cause severe damage to property or injury to the environment and human health could have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, the costs of transporting ammonia could increase significantly in the future.The nitrogen fertilizer business manufactures, processes, stores, handles, distributes and transports ammonia, which can be very volatile and extremely hazardous. Major accidents or releases involving ammonia could cause severe damage or injury to property, the environment and human health, as well as a possible disruption of supplies and markets. Such an event could result in civil lawsuits, fines, penalties and regulatory enforcement proceedings, all of which could lead to significant liabilities. Any damage to persons, equipment or property or other disruption of the ability of the nitrogen fertilizer business to produce or distribute its products could result in a significant decrease in operating revenues and significant additional cost to replace or repair and insure its assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The nitrogen fertilizer facility periodically experiences minor releases of ammonia related to leaks from its equipment. It experienced more significant ammonia releases in August 2007 due to the failure of a high-pressure pump and in August and September 2010 due to a heat exchanger leak and a UAN vessel rupture. Similar events may occur in the future and could have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, the nitrogen fertilizer business may incur significant losses or costs relating to the operation of railcars used for the purpose of carrying various products, including ammonia. Due to the dangerous and potentially toxic nature of the cargo, in particular ammonia, on board railcars, a railcar accident may result in fires, explosions and pollution. These circumstances may result in sudden, severe damage or injury to property, the environment and human health. In the event of pollution, the nitrogen fertilizer business may be held responsible even if it is not at fault and it complied with the laws and 55regulations in effect at the time of the accident. Litigation arising from accidents involving ammonia and other products CVR produces or transports may result in the nitrogen fertilizer business or it being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for large amounts of damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Given the risks inherent in transporting ammonia, the costs of transporting ammonia could increase significantly in the future. Ammonia is most typically transported by pipeline and railcar. A number of initiatives are underway in the railroad and chemical industries that may result in changes to railcar design in order to minimize railway accidents involving hazardous materials. In addition, in the future, laws may more severely restrict or eliminate the ability of the nitrogen fertilizer business to transport ammonia via railcar. If any railcar design changes are implemented, or if accidents involving hazardous freight increase the insurance and other costs of railcars, freight costs of the nitrogen fertilizer business could significantly increase.Environmental laws and regulations on fertilizer end-use and application and numeric nutrient water quality criteria could have a material adverse impact on fertilizer demand in the future.Future environmental laws and regulations on the end-use and application of fertilizers could cause changes in demand for the nitrogen fertilizer business' products. In addition, future environmental laws and regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations, could limit the ability of the nitrogen fertilizer business to market and sell its products to end users. From time to time, various state legislatures have proposed bans or other limitations on fertilizer products. In addition, a number of states have adopted or proposed numeric nutrient water quality criteria that could result in decreased demand for fertilizer products in those states. For example, on November 30, 2012, EPA formally approved Florida's numeric nutrient limits pertaining to streams, spring vents, lakes, and south Florida estuaries and proposed tow new rules to limit nutrients in water bodies not covered under the Florida rules. If such laws, rules, regulations or interpretations to significantly curb the end-use or application of fertilizers were promulgated in CVR's marketing areas, it could result in decreased demand for its products and have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.If licensed technology were no longer available, the nitrogen fertilizer business may be adversely affected.Future environmental laws and regulations on the end-use and application of fertilizers could cause changes in demand for the nitrogen fertilizer business' products. In addition, future environmental laws and regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations, could limit the ability of the nitrogen fertilizer business to market and sell its products to end users. From time to time, various state legislatures have proposed bans or other limitations on fertilizer products. In addition, a number of states have adopted or proposed numeric nutrient water quality criteria that could result in decreased demand for fertilizer products in those states. For example, on November 30, 2012, EPA formally approved Florida's numeric nutrient limits pertaining to streams, spring vents, lakes, and south Florida estuaries and proposed tow new rules to limit nutrients in water bodies not covered under the Florida rules. If such laws, rules, regulations or interpretations to significantly curb the end-use or application of fertilizers were promulgated in our marketing areas, it could result in decreased demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on the nitrogen fertilizer business' results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.The nitrogen fertilizer business may face third party claims of intellectual property infringement, which if successful could result in significant costs.Although there are currently no pending claims relating to the infringement of any third party intellectual property rights, in the future the nitrogen fertilizer business may face claims of infringement that could interfere with its ability to use technology that is material to its business operations. Any litigation of this type, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversions of resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In the event a claim of infringement against the nitrogen fertilizer business is successful, it may be required to pay royalties or license fees for past or continued use of the infringing technology, or it may be prohibited from using the infringing technology altogether. If it is prohibited from using any technology as a result of such a claim, it may not be able to obtain licenses to alternative technology adequate to substitute for the technology it can no longer use, or licenses for such alternative technology may only be available on terms that are not commercially reasonable or acceptable. In addition, any substitution of new technology for currently licensed technology may require the nitrogen fertilizer business to make substantial changes to its manufacturing processes or equipment or to its products, and could have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.There can be no assurance that the transportation costs of the nitrogen fertilizer business' competitors will not decline.The nitrogen fertilizer plant is located within the U.S. farm belt, where the majority of the end users of its nitrogen fertilizer products grow their crops. Many of its competitors produce fertilizer outside of this region and incur greater costs in transporting their products over longer distances via rail, ships and pipelines. There can be no assurance that competitors' transportation costs will not decline or that additional pipelines will not be built, lowering the price at which competitors can sell their products, which would have a material adverse effect on our Energy segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.56GamingIntense competition exists and is growing in the gaming industry, including competition involving the implementation of internet gaming, and we may not be able to compete effectively which could negatively affect our Gaming operations.The gaming industry is highly competitive for both customers and employees, including those at the management level. Tropicana faces increasing intense competition with numerous casinos and hotel casinos of varying quality and size in market areas where its properties are located. Tropicana also competes with other non-gaming resorts and vacation destinations, and with various other casino and other entertainment businesses and could compete with any new forms of gaming that exist or may be legalized in the future, including on-line gaming. The casino entertainment business is characterized by competitors that vary considerably in their size, quality of facilities, number of operations, brand identities, marketing and growth strategies, financial strength and capabilities, level of amenities, management talent and geographic diversity. As a result of the Justice Department's December 2011 opinion concerning the applicability of the Wire Act to internet gaming, certain states including Nevada, Delaware and New Jersey have moved forward with legislation to authorize various forms of intrastate internet gaming. Notably, in February 2013 Nevada amended its internet gaming law to permit Nevada licensed internet providers to commence internet poker and to allow the state to enter into agreements with other states to create multi-state poker wagering, and in February 2013 New Jersey enacted legislation authorizing intrastate internet gaming through Atlantic City casinos. The legislation provides that licensed Atlantic City casinos including Tropicana AC may offer internet gambling games subject to regulations to be adopted by the NJDGE. The law provides for a 15% tax on internet gaming gross revenues and permits New Jersey to enter into agreements with other states to engage in multi-state internet wagering pools. The law has a 10 year sunset provision. Tropicana's ability to compete in a marketplace containing multiple virtual casino platforms will depend on its ability to effectively market our internet gaming products to its customers in face of stiff competition as well as the availability of internet gaming in jurisdictions in which it operate casinos. In most markets, Tropicana competes directly with other casino facilities operating in the immediate and surrounding market areas. In some markets, Tropicana faces competition from nearby markets in addition to direct competition within its market areas as well as the threat from new, emerging markets. With internet gaming, Tropicana's land based casinos will also potentially be competing in virtual markets that may not be constrained by geographical limitations.In 2010, Tropicana AC implemented a new marketing strategy to target high end table game players to counter the increased competition from Pennsylvania and other surrounding markets. Casino revenues can vary because of table game hold percentage and differences in the odds for different table games. High end play may lead to greater fluctuations in Tropicana's table game hold percentage and, as a result, it may experience greater revenue and earnings fluctuation between reporting periods due to this marketing strategy.In recent years, competition in existing markets has intensified. For example, competition with the Atlantic City market has increased with Pennsylvania and Delaware commencing live table game operations in 2010; the opening of a new casino in a Philadelphia suburb in 2012 and the re-bidding of the second Philadelphia Category 2 license; three casinos currently operating in Maryland with plans for additional casinos, and the addition of table games; two casinos operating in the New York metropolitan area and a new competitor in Atlantic City that commenced operations in Spring 2012. In September 2012, competition in our Baton Rouge market increased with the opening of a new casino. In addition, Tropicana's competitors have invested in expanding their existing facilities and developing new facilities. Tropicana's properties, on the other hand, historically have had more limited resources for capital expenditures and other improvements than many of its competitors. Tropicana's ability to invest in its properties going forward may continue to be constrained due to market conditions, and it may not be able to compete effectively with casinos that have been modernized or recently expanded.Furthermore, competition from internet lotteries and other internet wagering gaming services, which allow their customers to wager on a wide variety of sporting events and play Las Vegas-style casino games from home, could divert customers from our properties and thus adversely affect Tropciana's business. Such internet wagering services are likely to expand in future years and become more accessible to domestic gamblers as a result of recently announced U.S. Department of Justice positions related to the application of federal laws to intrastate internet gaming and initiatives in some states to consider legislation to legalize intrastate internet wagering. There are also proposals that would specifically legalize internet gaming under federal law.This expansion of existing casino entertainment properties, the increase in the number of gaming opportunities, the potential emergence of legal internet gaming and the aggressive marketing strategies of many of Tropicana's competitors have also increased competition in many markets in which it competes, and Tropicana expects this intense competition to continue.If Tropicana's competitors operate more successfully than it does, if they are more successful than Tropicana in attracting and retaining employees, if their properties are enhanced or expanded, if additional hotels and casinos are established in and around the locations in which Tropicana conducts business, or if on-line gaming is permitted and conducted in any of its markets, Tropicana may lose market share or the ability to attract or retain employees. In particular, the expansion of casino 57gaming in or near any geographic area from which Tropicana attracts or expects to attract a significant number of its customers could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations.The casino, hotel and resort industry is capital intensive and Tropicana may not be able to proceed with renovation projects because of market conditions, which could put it at a competitive disadvantage.Tropicana's properties have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements to remain competitive, including replacement, from time to time, of furniture, fixtures and equipment. Because of the bankruptcies, the Predecessors and Tropicana AC deferred renovations and capital improvements. Tropicana also needs to make capital expenditures to comply with applicable laws and regulations.Renovations and other capital improvements of Tropicana's properties require significant capital expenditures and usually generate little or no cash flow until the project is completed. Tropicana may not be able to proceed with planned capital improvement projects because of market conditions. Tropicana's failure to renovate its gaming properties may put it at a competitive disadvantage, which could have a materially adverse effect on our Gaming segment.Renovations and other capital improvements may disrupt Tropicana's operations.Renovation projects may cause Tropicana to temporarily close all or a portion of its facilities to customers and disrupt service and room availability, causing reduced demand, occupancy and rates. As a result, any future capital improvements projects may increase Tropicana's expenses and reduce its cash flows and its revenues and, accordingly, may have a materially adverse effect on our Gaming segment.Work stoppages, labor problems and unexpected shutdowns may limit Tropicana's operational flexibility and negatively impact its future profits.Tropicana is party to 10 collective bargaining agreements with different unions. In September 2011, the collective bargaining agreement with UNITE HERE Local 54 covering approximately 1,100 employees at Tropicana AC expired and Tropicana AC is presently operating without an agreement with this union. In January 2012, Tropicana AC advised UNITE HERE Local 54 that the parties were at an impasse and provided the union with Tropicana AC's final proposal. Tropicana withdrew from the UNITE HERE National Retirement Fund on February 25, 2012.Tropicana cannot assure you that it will be able to enter into a new collective bargaining agreement with UNITE HERE Local 54 or renegotiate the other collective bargaining agreements with other unions currently in effect. The addition of new or changes to the existing collective bargaining agreements could cause significant increases in labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our Gaming segment.In addition, the unions with which Tropicana has collective bargaining agreements or other unions could seek to organize employees at Tropicana's non-union properties or groups of employees at its properties that are not currently represented by unions. Union organization efforts could cause disruptions in its businesses and result in significant costs, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our Gaming segment.Finally, if Tropicana is unable to negotiate these agreements on mutually acceptable terms, the affected employees, including union members with the UNITE HERE Local 54 bargaining unit, may engage in a strike or other job actions instead of continuing to operate without contracts or under expired contracts, which could have a materially adverse effect on our Gaming segment, including the operations of Tropicana AC. In 2012, UNITE HERE Local 54 staged several protest actions at Tropicana AC which were disruptive to its business. Any unexpected shutdown of one of the casino properties, including Tropicana AC, from a work stoppage or strike action could have a material adverse effect on our Gaming segment. Moreover, strikes, work stoppages or other job actions could also result in adverse media attention or otherwise discourage customers, including convention and meeting groups, from visiting Tropicana's casinos. There can be no assurance that Tropicana can be adequately prepared for labor developments that may lead to a temporary or permanent shutdown of any of its casino properties.Tropicana's business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending as a result of downturns in the local, regional or national economy. Consumer demand for casino and hotel properties, such as Tropicana's, are particularly sensitive to downturns in the local, regional or national economy and the corresponding impact on discretionary spending on leisure activities. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions, the recent housing and credit crises, the impact of high energy and food costs, the increased cost of travel, the potential for continued bank failures, perceived or actual declines in disposable consumer income and wealth, the effect of the current economic environment and changes in consumer confidence in the economy, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism could further reduce customer demand for amenities that Tropicana offers.58The recent housing crisis and recession in the United States resulted in a significant decline in tourism and consumer spending. Economic conditions like the recent downturn (and slowdowns or recessions less severe) could cause fewer consumers to spend money or cause consumers to spend less money at Tropicana's properties and could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations. While general economic conditions have modestly improved, there can be no assurance that they will continue to improve or will not worsen in the future. The state of the global financial markets may impact Tropicana's ability to obtain sufficient financing and credit on a going forward basis which could negatively impact its ability to expand its business.In addition to earnings and cash flows from operations, Tropicana relies on borrowed money to finance its business, which may be constrained if it is unable to borrow additional capital or refinance existing borrowings on reasonable terms. Developments in the global financial markets that have led to unpredictable government intervention in the United States and European banking systems, including the fiscal 2008 capital crisis in the banking system, a series of rating agency downgrades of subprime U.S. mortgage‑related assets and significant provisions for loan losses recorded by major financial institutions and downgrades of sovereign debt in certain EU member nations, have resulted in volatility in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many global financial markets and other adverse conditions for issuers in fixed income, credit and equity markets. In the recent past, these markets have experienced disruption that had a dramatic impact on the availability and cost of capital and credit. The market interest rate for debt of companies similar to Tropicana's has been volatile. The United States and other governments have enacted legislation and taken other actions to help alleviate these conditions, although there is no assurance that such steps will have the effect of easing the conditions in global credit and capital markets. Therefore, Tropicana has no assurance that such steps will facilitate its further access to credit or capital markets at desirable times or at rates that it would consider acceptable, and the lack of such funding could have a material adverse effect on our Gaming operations and its ability to service its indebtedness. While these conditions have recently improved, there can be no assurance that they will not worsen in the future. Tropicana is unable to predict the likely duration or severity of any disruption in the capital and credit markets, or its impact on the larger economy. A disruption in the global credit and financial markets may materially and adversely affect Tropicana's ability to obtain sufficient financing to execute its business strategy.The bankruptcy filing has had a negative impact on Tropicana AC and the Predecessors' image which may negatively impact Tropicana's business going forward.As a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, the Predecessors and Tropicana AC were the subject of negative publicity which has had an impact on the image of their assets. This negative publicity may have an effect on the terms under which some customers and suppliers are willing to do business with Tropicana and could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations.Tropicana may face potential successor liability for liabilities of the Predecessors not provided for in the Plan.As the successor to the Predecessors, Tropicana may be subject to certain liabilities of the Predecessors not provided for in the Plan. Such liabilities may arise in a number of circumstances, including but not limited to, those where:•a creditor of the Predecessors did not receive proper notice of the pendency of the bankruptcy case relating to the Plan or the deadline for filing claims therein; •the injury giving rise to, or the source of, a creditor's claim did not manifest itself in time for the creditor to file the creditor's claim;•a creditor did not timely file the creditor's claim in such bankruptcy case due to excusable neglect;•Tropicana is liable for the Predecessors' federal and/or state tax liabilities under a theory of successor liability; or•the order of confirmation for the Plan was procured by fraud.Although Tropicana has no reason to believe that it will become subject to liabilities of the Predecessors that are not provided for in the Plan, should Tropicana become subject to such liabilities, it could materially adversely affect our Gaming segment. Our Gaming segment has a limited operating history.Tropicana was formed in May 2009 and has a limited operating history. There are substantial risks and uncertainties to which our Gaming segment is subject. To address these risks and uncertainties, Tropicana must do the following, among other things:•Successfully execute its business strategy;•Respond to competitive developments; and•Attract, integrate, retain and motivate qualified personnel.59We cannot assure that Tropicana will operate profitably or that Tropicana will have adequate working capital to meet its obligations as they become due. Additionally, there can be no assurance that Tropicana's business strategy will be successful, that it will successfully address the risks that face its business or that it will be able to access capital markets if the need arises. In the event that Tropicana does not successfully address these risks, our Gaming segment could be materially and adversely affected.Tropicana may be subject to litigation resulting from its gaming, resort and dining operations, which, if adversely determined, could result in substantial losses.Tropicana will be, from time to time, during the ordinary course of operating its businesses, subject to various litigation claims and legal disputes, including contract, lease, employment and regulatory claims as well as claims made by visitors to its properties. Certain litigation claims may not be covered entirely or at all by its insurance policies or its insurance carriers may seek to deny coverage. In addition, litigation claims can be expensive to defend and may divert Tropicana's attention from the operations of its businesses. Further, litigation involving visitors to its properties, even if without merit, can attract adverse media attention. As a result, litigation can have a material adverse effect on its businesses. Tropicana cannot predict the outcome of any action and it is possible that adverse judgments or settlements could significantly reduce our Gaming segment revenues.State gaming laws and regulations may require holders of Tropicana's debt or equity securities to undergo a suitability investigation, and may result in redemption of their securities.Many jurisdictions require any person who acquires beneficial ownership of debt or equity securities of a casino gaming company to apply for qualification or a finding of suitability. Generally, any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within the prescribed period after being advised by gaming authorities that it is required to do so may be denied a license or found unsuitable or unqualified, as applicable. Any holder of securities that is found unsuitable or unqualified or denied a license, and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of a gaming entity's securities beyond such period of time as may be prescribed by the applicable gaming authorities may be guilty of a criminal offense. Furthermore, a gaming entity may be subject to disciplinary action if such gaming entity, after receiving notice that a person is unsuitable to be a holder of securities or to have any other relationship with such gaming entity or any of its subsidiaries:•pays that person any dividend or interest upon the securities;•allows that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting ownership right conferred through securities held by that person;•pays remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise;•allows that person to continue in an ownership or economic interest or receive any economic benefit; or•fails to pursue all lawful efforts to require such unsuitable person to relinquish the securities including, if necessary, the immediate (or within such other time period as prescribed by the applicable gaming authorities) purchase of such securities for the lesser of fair value at the time of repurchase or fair value at the time of acquisition by the unsuitable holder.In the event that disqualified holders fail to divest themselves of such securities, gaming authorities have the power to revoke or suspend the casino license or licenses related to the regulated entity that issued the securities. In addition, Tropicana's certificate of incorporation provides that it may redeem its securities from an Unsuitable Person (as such term is defined in Tropicana's certificate of incorporation).Regulation by gaming authorities could adversely affect our Gaming segment's operations.Tropicana is subject to extensive regulation with respect to the ownership and operation of its gaming facilities. Federal, state and local gaming authorities require that Tropicana and its subsidiaries hold various licenses, qualifications, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals. The gaming regulatory authorities have broad powers with respect to the licensing of casino operations and alcoholic beverage service and may deny, revoke, suspend, condition, or limit Tropicana's gaming or other licenses, impose substantial fines, temporarily suspend casino operations and take other actions, any one of which could adversely affect our Gaming operations.Tropicana owns, operates or has an interest in gaming facilities located in Nevada, Indiana, Mississippi, Louisiana, New Jersey and Aruba. Tropicana has obtained all material governmental licenses, qualifications, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for the operation of its gaming facilities as operations at such facilities are presently conducted. However, there can be no assurance that Tropicana can obtain any new licenses, or renew any existing, licenses, qualifications, findings of suitability, registrations, permits, or approvals that may be required in the future or that existing ones will not be suspended or revoked. If Tropicana relocates or expands any of its current gaming facilities or enters new jurisdictions, it must obtain all additional licenses, qualifications, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals of the applicable gaming 60authorities in such jurisdictions. If state regulatory authorities were to find an officer, director, owner or other person affiliated with its operations unsuitable, Tropicana would be required to sever its relationship with that person. Gaming authorities, as well as other state regulatory authorities, may conduct similar investigations in the future in connection with new equity and debt holders. We cannot predict the outcome of these investigations or their potential impact on our Gaming segment.Additionally, certain manufacturers, distributors and suppliers of gaming devices, junkets, goods or services to Tropicana's gaming facilities may be required to obtain a license or permit or undergo a suitability investigation by the gaming authorities. There can be no assurance that such licenses, permits or registrations will be obtained by such vendors. The failure of any such vendors to obtain any required licenses, permits or registrations on a timely basis could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations.Tropicana's operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations resulting from its presence in several states and diverse operating activities.In addition to gaming regulations, Tropicana is also subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting businesses in general. Tropicana operates hotels, restaurants, entertainment facilities, parking garages, swimming pools, riverboats and other facilities connected with its core gaming business. Many of these activities are subject to state and local laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. For example, in July 2006, New Jersey gaming properties, including Tropicana AC, were required to temporarily close their casinos for three days as a result of a New Jersey statewide government shutdown that affected certain New Jersey state employees required to be at casinos when they are open for business that resulted in loss of revenues. Any cessation of operations as a result of a government shutdown, or similar events resulting from laws and regulations affecting businesses, could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations.Future changes in legislation and regulation could negatively impact Tropicana's gaming operations.From time to time, legislators and special interest groups propose legislation that would expand, restrict, or prevent gaming operations in the jurisdictions in which Tropicana operates and in neighboring jurisdictions. Further, from time to time, individual jurisdictions have considered or enacted legislation and referenda, such as bans on smoking in casinos and other entertainment and dining facilities, which could adversely affect Tropicana and, accordingly, our Gaming segment. Any restriction on or prohibition relating to our Gaming segment, or enactment of other adverse legislation or regulatory changes, could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations.Tropicana may be subject to increases in taxation and fees resulting from its gaming operations.The casino gaming industry represents a significant source of tax revenues to the various jurisdictions in which casinos operate. Gaming companies are currently subject to significant federal, state and local taxes and fees in addition to the federal and state income taxes that typically apply to corporations, and such taxes and fees could increase at any time. From time to time, various state and federal legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws or in the administration of such laws, including increases in tax rates, which would affect the gaming industry. Economic conditions could intensify the efforts of federal, state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes and fees. In addition, growing federal, state or local budget shortfalls resulting from the recent recession could prompt tax or fee increases. Any material increase in assessed taxes, or the adoption of additional taxes or fees in any of Tropicana's markets could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations.If Tropicana decides to proceed with the development of Tropicana Aruba, it could encounter problems during development, construction, renovation and refurbishment that could increase the construction costs or delay the opening of Tropicana Aruba. In addition, Tropciana may not be able to complete development of or operate Tropicana Aruba if it does not obtain all necessary permits, licenses and approvals.Construction projects like the development, construction, renovation and refurbishment of Tropicana Aruba are subject to significant development and construction risks, any of which could cause unanticipated cost increases and delays. These include, among others, the following:•adverse weather conditions that damage the project or cause delays;•changes to the plans or specifications;•shortages and increased costs of energy, materials and skilled labor;•engineering problems;•labor disputes and work stoppages;•environmental issues;•fire, flooding and other natural disasters; and•geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems.61Tropicana has not finalized a budget for the permanent casino project. Once a budget for the permanent casino facility is developed, if the actual costs greatly exceed the budgeted amounts, Tropicana may not be able to modify the design in a manner that would enable it to remain within budget and, therefore, it may not have sufficient funds to complete the project. Failure to complete Tropicana Aruba on time or within budget could have a material adverse effect on our Gaming operations, prospects and ability to satisfy its obligations. Opening Tropicana Aruba within our anticipated time frame and remaining within budget will depend upon, among other things, the absence of any unforeseen difficulties or delays.In addition, certain permits, licenses and approvals necessary for the development, construction and operation of Tropicana Aruba have not yet been obtained. The scope of the approvals required for a project of this nature is extensive. Unexpected changes or concessions required by Aruban regulatory authorities could involve significant additional costs and result in delay in the scheduled opening of Tropicana Aruba. Tropciana may not receive the necessary licenses and approvals or obtain them within our anticipated time frame.Our Gaming operations could be materially adversely affected by the occurrence of accidents, natural disasters, such as hurricanes, or other catastrophic events, including war and terrorism.Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods, fires and earthquakes, could adversely affect our Gaming operations. Hurricanes are common to the areas in which Tropicana's Louisiana and Mississippi properties are located and the severity of such natural disasters is unpredictable. In October 2012, Hurricane Sandy resulted in the mandatory closure of Tropicana AC for approximately five days. Although the property did not incur any significant property damage, the severity of the property damage to a large portion of the Atlantic City feeder markets including New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania resulted in a long term business interruption that has continued into 2013 and materially affected operating results. Likewise, in August 2011, Hurricane Irene and mandatory governmental evacuation orders for Atlantic City caused an approximately three-day closure of Tropicana AC , adversely affecting our Gaming operations. In May 2011, both of Tropicana's properties in Greenville, Mississippi, Lighthouse Point and Jubilee were closed for approximately 29 days as a result of Mississippi River flooding causing substantial damage at its Lighthouse Point property and adversely affected our Gaming segment's operating results at its Greenville facilities. Likewise, in August 2012, Tropicana's property in Louisiana was forced to temporarily close for approximately 2 days as a result of Hurricane Isaac. We cannot predict the impact that any future natural disasters will have on Tropicana's ability to maintain its customer base or to sustain its business activities.Moreover, Tropicana's riverboats will face additional risks from the movement of vessels on waterways, such as collisions with other vessels or damage from debris in the water. Reduced patronage and the loss of a dockside or riverboat casino from service for any period of time could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations.Catastrophic events such as terrorist and war activities in the United States and elsewhere have had a negative effect on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming (in some jurisdictions), and tourism. In addition, any man-made or natural disasters in or around Tropicana's properties could have a materially adverse effect on our Gaming operations. We cannot predict the extent to which such events may affect Tropicana and, accordingly, our Gaming segment, directly or indirectly, in the future. We also cannot ensure that Tropicana will be able to obtain any insurance coverage with respect to occurrences of terrorist acts and any losses that could result from these acts.In the future, the prolonged disruption at any of Tropicana's properties due to natural disasters, terrorist attacks, or other catastrophic events could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations.Leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events, such as terrorist attacks or acts of war or hostility. These events can create economic and political uncertainties that could adversely impact Tropicana's business levels. Furthermore, although Tropicana may have some insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts, insurance coverage against loss or business interruption resulting from war and some forms of terrorism may be unavailable.Tropicana's properties, including riverboats and dockside facilities, are subject to risks relating to mechanical failure, weather and regulatory compliance.All of Tropicana's facilities are subject to the risk that operations could be halted for a temporary or extended period of time, as result of casualty, forces of nature, mechanical failure or extended or extraordinary maintenance, among other causes. In addition, Tropicana's gaming operations, particularly those conducted on riverboats or at dockside facilities, could be damaged or halted due to extreme weather conditions. In October 2012 Hurricane Sandy resulted in the mandatory closure of Tropicana AC for approximately five days. Although the property did not incur any significant property damage, the severity of the property damage to a large portion of the Atlantic City feeder markets including New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania has resulted in long term business interruption that has continued into 2013 and materially affected operating results. Likewise, in August 2011 Hurricane Irene and mandatory governmental evacuation orders for Atlantic City caused an approximately three-day closure of Tropicana AC, adversely affecting our Gaming operations. In May 2011 both of Tropicana's properties in Greenville, Mississippi, Lighthouse Point and Jubilee were closed for approximately 29 days as a result of Mississippi River 62flooding causing substantial damage at its Lighthouse Point property and adversely affected our Gaming segment's operating results at its Greenville facilities. Likewise, in August 2012 Tropicana's property in Louisiana was forced to temporarily close for approximately 2 days as a result of Hurricane Isaac. Each of Tropicana's riverboats must comply with U.S. Coast Guard requirements as to boat design, on-board facilities, equipment, personnel and safety. Each riverboat must hold a Certificate of Inspection for stabilization and flotation, and may also be subject to local zoning codes. The U.S. Coast Guard requirements establish standards, set limits on the operation of the vessels and require individual licensing of all personnel involved with the operation of the vessels. Loss of a vessel's Certificate of Inspection or American Bureau of Shipping approval would preclude its use as a casino.Except for Tropicana's riverboats that have opted for alternate inspection by the American Bureau of Shipping allowed in those gaming jurisdictions where Tropicana operates that provide for such alternative inspections, U.S. Coast Guard regulations require a hull inspection for all riverboats at five-year intervals. Under certain circumstances, alternative hull inspections may be approved. The U.S. Coast Guard may require that such hull inspections be conducted at a dry-docking facility and, if so required, the cost of travel to and from such docking facility, as well as the time required for inspections of the affected riverboats, could be significant. To date, the U.S. Coast Guard has allowed in-place inspections of Tropicana's riverboats. The U.S. Coast Guard may not allow these types of inspections in the future. The loss of a riverboat casino from service for any period of time could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations.U.S. Coast Guard regulations also require certain of Tropicana's properties to prepare and follow certain security programs. In the first quarter of 2003, Casino Aztar implemented the American Gaming Association's Alternative Security Program at its riverboat casino. In November 2012, the Indiana Gaming Commission approved Casino Aztar to convert from a self-propelled riverboat to a permanently moored craft designation, contingent on successful completion of an emergency drill package to be approved by American Bureau of Shipping ("ABS") and the addition of an additional passenger egress before the next annual inspection of the vessel in October 2013. In December 2012, the United States Coast Guard relinquished regulatory oversight of the Casino Aztar vessel after successful completion of the ABS drills, negating the requirement for the Alternative Security Program. Belle of Baton Rouge applies a customized alternative security program. The American Gaming Association's Alternative Security Program is specifically designed to address maritime security requirements at riverboat casinos and their respective dockside facilities. Changes to these regulations could adversely affect our Gaming operations.Noncompliance with environmental, health and safety regulations applicable to Tropicana's hotels and casinos could adversely affect Tropicana's results of operations.As the owner, operator and developer of real property, Tropicana must address, and may be liable for, hazardous materials or contamination of these sites and any other off-site locations at which any hazardous material that its activities generate are disposed. Tropicana's ongoing operations are subject to stringent regulations relating to the protection of the environment and handling of waste, particularly with respect to the management of wastewater from its facilities. Any failure to comply with existing laws or regulations, the adoption of new laws or regulations with additional or more rigorous compliance standards, or the more vigorous enforcement of environmental laws or regulations could limit Tropicana's future opportunities and, accordingly, could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations by increasing its expenses and limiting its future opportunitiesThe concentration and evolution of the slot machine manufacturing industry could impose additional costs on Tropicana's operations.A majority of Tropicana's gaming revenue is attributable to slot machines operated at its gaming facilities. It is important, for competitive reasons that Tropicana offer popular and technologically advanced slot machine games to its customers. A substantial majority of the slot machines sold in the United States in recent years were manufactured by a limited number of companies. A deterioration in the commercial arrangements with any of these slot machine manufacturers, or significant industry demand, could result in Tropicana being unable to acquire the slot machines desired by its customers or could result in manufacturers significantly increasing the cost of these machines. Going forward, the inability to obtain new and up-to-date slot machine games could impair Tropicana's competitive position and result in decreased gaming revenues at its casinos. In addition, increases in the costs associated with acquiring slot machine games could adversely Tropicana's profitability and, accordingly, have a material adverse effect on our Gaming segment.In recent years, the prices of new slot machines have dramatically increased. Furthermore, in recent years, slot machine manufacturers have frequently refused to sell slot machines featuring the most popular games, instead requiring gaming operators to execute participation lease arrangements for them to be able to offer such machines to patrons. Participation slot machine leasing arrangements typically require the payment of a fixed daily rental fee. Such agreements may (depending on regulatory restrictions in the applicable jurisdiction) also include a percentage payment to the manufacturer based on the usage of the machine or the gaming company's receipts from the machine, sometimes referred to as "coin-in" or "net win" percentage payments. Generally, a slot machine participation lease is more expensive over the long term than the cost of purchasing a new slot machine. Tropicana has slot machine participation leases at each of its properties.63For competitive reasons, Tropicana may be forced to purchase new, more contemporary slot machines, or enter into participation lease arrangements that are more expensive than the costs currently associated with the continued operation of existing slot machines. If the newer slot machines do not result in sufficient incremental revenues to offset the increased investment and participation lease costs, it could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations.Tropicana may not have or be able to obtain sufficient insurance coverage to replace or cover the full value of losses it may suffer.Tropicana's casino properties may be subject to extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes and floods. In the future, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt its operations, damage its properties and reduce the number of customers who visit its facilities. Although Tropicana maintains both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain extreme weather conditions, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption. We cannot assure you that Tropicana will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such extreme weather conditions. In addition, extreme weather events such as hurricanes and floods have resulted in increases in insurance premiums, increased deductibles and less favorable coverage terms. Furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt or impede access to Tropicana's affected properties and may cause visits to its affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period.While Tropicana maintains insurance against many risks to the extent and in amounts that it believes are reasonable, these policies will not cover all risks. Furthermore, portions of Tropicana's businesses are difficult or impracticable to insure. Therefore, after carefully weighing the costs, risks and benefits of retaining versus insuring various risks, as well as the availability of certain types of insurance coverage, Tropicana occasionally may opt to retain certain risks not covered by its insurance policies. Retained risks are associated with deductible limits or self-insured retentions, partial self-insurance programs and insurance policy coverage ceilings.Tropicana carries certain insurance policies that, in the event of certain substantial losses, may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of damaged property. As a result, if a significant event were to occur that is not fully covered by its insurance policies, Tropicana may lose all, or a portion of, its capital invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from such property. There can be no assurance that Tropicana will not face uninsured losses pertaining to the risks it has retained. Consequently, uninsured losses may negatively affect our Gaming operations.Tropicana may not be able to obtain sufficient insurance coverage and cannot predict whether it may encounter difficulty in collecting on any insurance claims it may submit, including claims for business interruption.Energy price increases may adversely affect our Gaming segment due to the significant amounts of energy used in Tropicana's operations.Tropicana's casino properties use significant amounts of electricity, oil, natural gas and other forms of energy. Substantial increases in energy and fuel prices may negatively affect Tropicana's financial condition and results of operations in the future and, accordingly, our Gaming segment. The extent of the impact is subject to the magnitude and duration of the energy and fuel price increases, but the impact could be material. In addition, energy and gasoline price increases in cities that constitute a significant source of customers for Tropicana's properties could result in a decline in disposable income of potential customers and a corresponding decrease in visitation and spending at Tropicana's properties, which would negatively impact our Gaming segment's revenues. Further, increases in fuel prices, and resulting increases in transportation costs, could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations.A significant portion of Tropicana's indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates, which may expose it to higher interest payments.A substantial portion of Tropicana's indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates, which makes it more vulnerable in the event of adverse economic conditions, increases in prevailing interest rates, or a downturn in its business. As of December 31, 2012, approximately $174 million of its indebtedness, which represents the outstanding balance under its New Term Loan Facility, was subject to floating interest rates. Tropicana currently has no hedging arrangements in place to mitigate the impact of higher interest rates.Tropicana's indebtedness could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations and prevent it from fulfilling its obligations under the terms of its indebtedness.Tropicana's indebtedness could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations and prevent it from fulfilling its obligations under the terms of its indebtedness. The terms of the New Term Loan Facility require it to comply with a first lien net leverage ratio and a total net leverage ratio. The New Term Loan Facility contains mandatory prepayment provisions from proceeds received by it and its subsidiaries as a result of asset sales, the incurrence of indebtedness and 64issuance of equity, casualty events and excess cash flow (subject in each case to certain exceptions). In addition, other covenants in the New Term Loan Facility may restrict its flexibility. Such covenants include limitations on indebtedness, liens, investments, acquisitions, asset sales, dividends and other restricted payments, and affiliate and extraordinary transactions. Additionally, there may be factors beyond its control that could affect its ability to meet debt service requirements. Tropicana's ability to meet debt service requirements will depend on its future performance and its ability to sustain sales conditions in the markets in which it operates, the economy generally, and other factors that are beyond its control. Tropicana may need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot assure that Tropicana's businesses will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available in amounts sufficient to enable it to pay its indebtedness or to fund its other liquidity needs. We cannot assure you that Tropicana will be able to refinance any of its indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If Tropicana is unable to make scheduled debt payments or comply with the other provisions of its debt instruments, its lenders will be permitted under certain circumstances to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness owing to them and exercise other remedies provided for in those instruments and under applicable law. Railcar The highly cyclical nature of the railcar industry and restricted credit markets may result in lower revenues during economic downturns. The North American railcar market has been, and ARI expects it to continue to be, highly cyclical resulting in volatility in demand for its products and services. Downturns in economic conditions typically have an adverse affect on cyclical industries due to decreased demand for new and replacement products. Sales of ARI's railcars and other products slowed in 2009 and 2010 resulting in decreased production rates. New orders and shipments of railcars steadily increased in 2011 and 2012 driven by increased demand for shipment of certain commodities, replacement of older railcars and federal tax benefits from the delivery of railcars in 2011 and 2012. Though ARI has seen improvements in the railcar market in 2011 and 2012, these improvements may or may not continue. Currently, ARI estimates that approximately 75% of its December 31, 2012 backlog will be shipped during 2013. As a result, ARI's failure to obtain new orders would materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. Downturns in part or all of the railcar manufacturing industry may occur in the future, resulting in decreased demand for ARI's products and services. Most of the end users of ARI's railcars that it sells acquire them through leasing arrangements with its leasing company customers. The recent economic downturn and more cautious credit markets during 2009 and 2010 have resulted in stricter borrowing conditions, which could increase the cost of, or potentially deter, new leasing arrangements. These factors have caused and could in the future cause ARI's leasing company customers to purchase fewer railcars, which could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations. ARI operates in a highly competitive industry and may be unable to compete successfully, which would materially adversely affect our Railcar operations.ARI faces intense competition in all of its markets. In its railcar manufacturing business, ARI has four primary competitors. Any of these competitors may, from time to time, have greater resources than ARI does. ARI's current competitors may increase their participation in, or new competitors may enter into, the railcar markets in which it competes. Strong competition within the industry has led to pricing pressures and could limit ARI's ability to maintain or increase prices or obtain better margins on its railcars. If ARI produces any types of railcars other than what it currently produces, ARI will be competing with other manufacturers that may have more experience with that railcar type.ARI also has intense competition in its railcar leasing business from railcar manufacturers, leasing companies, banks and other financial institutions. ARI is competing with certain of its significant customers through its entry into the railcar leasing market. Some of ARI's railcar manufacturing competitors also produce railcars for use in their own railcar leasing fleet, competing directly with its new railcar leasing business and with leasing companies.New competitors, or alliances among existing competitors, may emerge in the railcar components industry and rapidly gain market share. ARI competes with numerous companies in its railcar fleet management and railcar repair services businesses, ranging from companies with greater resources than it has to small, local companies.Technological innovation by any of its existing competitors, or new competitors entering any of the markets in which ARI does business, could put it at a competitive disadvantage and could cause it to lose market share. Increased competition for the sales of its railcars, its fleet management and repair services and its railcar components could result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share, which could materially adversely affect its prospects and our Railcar operations.65Our Railcar segment depends upon a small number of customers that represents a large percentage of its revenues. The loss of any single significant customer, a reduction in sales to any such significant customer or any such significant customer's inability to pay in a timely manner could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations.Railcars are typically sold pursuant to large, periodic orders and therefore, a limited number of customers typically represent a significant percentage of railcar sales in any given year. Our railcar segment's top three external customers accounted for approximately 65%, 53% and 58% of its total net sales and other revenues from operations in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The loss of any significant portion of its sales to any major customer, the loss of a single major customer or a material adverse change in the financial condition of any one of its major customers could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations. If one of our Railcar segment's significant customers was unable to pay due to financial conditions, it could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations. The cost of raw materials and components that ARI uses to manufacture railcars, particularly steel, are subject to escalation and surcharges and could increase. Any increase in these costs or delivery delays of these raw materials could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations.The cost of raw materials, including steel, and components, including scrap metal, used in the production of ARI's railcars, represents more than half of its direct manufacturing costs per railcar. ARI has provisions in its current railcar manufacturing orders that allow it to pass on to its customers price fluctuations in and surcharges related to certain raw materials, including steel, as well as certain components. The number of customers to which ARI is not able to pass on price increases may increase in the future, and any such increase could adversely affect the operating margins and cash flows of our Railcar operations. Any fluctuations in the price or availability of steel, or any other material or component used in the production of ARI's railcars, could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations. Such price increases could reduce demand for ARI's railcars. If ARI is not able to pass on price increases to its customers, ARI may lose railcar orders or enter into contracts with less favorable contract terms, any of which could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations. Deliveries of ARI's raw materials and components may also fluctuate depending on various factors including supply and demand for the raw material or component, or governmental regulation relating to the raw material or component, including regulation relating to importation. Fluctuations in the supply of components and raw materials ARI uses in manufacturing railcars, which are often only available from a limited number of suppliers, could cause production delays or reductions in the number of railcars it manufactures, which could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations.ARI's railcar manufacturing business depends on the adequate supply of numerous railcar components, such as railcar wheels, axles, brakes, bearings, yokes, sideframes, bolsters and other heavy castings. Some of these components are only available from a limited number of domestic suppliers. Strong demand can cause industry-wide shortages of many critical components as reliable suppliers could reach capacity production levels. Supply constraints in its industry are exacerbated because, although multiple suppliers may produce certain components, railcar manufacturing regulations and the physical capabilities of manufacturing facilities restrict the types and sizes of components and raw materials that manufacturers may use. In addition, ARI does not carry significant inventories of certain components and procures many of its components on an as-needed basis. In the event that its suppliers of railcar components and raw materials were to stop or reduce the production of railcar components and raw materials that it uses, or refuse to do business with ARI for any reason, ARI's business would be disrupted. ARI's inability to obtain components and raw materials in required quantities or of acceptable quality could result in significant delays or reductions in railcar shipments and could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations.If any of ARI's significant suppliers of railcar components were to shut down operations, its business and financial results could be materially adversely affected as it may incur substantial delays and significant expense in finding alternative sources. The quality and reliability of alternative sources may not be the same and these alternative sources may charge significantly higher prices.Uncertainty surrounding acceptance of ARI's new railcar offerings by its customers, and costs associated with those new offerings, could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations.ARI's strategy depends in part on its continued development and sale of new railcar designs to expand or maintain its market share in its current railcar markets and new railcar markets. Any new or modified railcar design that ARI develops may not gain widespread acceptance in the marketplace and any such products may not be able to compete successfully with existing railcar designs or new railcar designs that may be introduced by its competitors. Furthermore, ARI may experience significant initial costs of production of new railcar product lines related to training, labor and operating inefficiencies. To the extent that the total costs of production significantly exceed its anticipated costs of production, ARI may incur a loss on its sale of new railcar product lines.66Equipment failures, delays in deliveries or extensive damage to ARI's facilities, particularly its railcar manufacturing complexes in Paragould or Marmaduke, Arkansas, could lead to production or service curtailments or shutdowns.An interruption in manufacturing capabilities at ARI's complexes in Paragould or Marmaduke, Arkansas or at any of its component manufacturing facilities, whether as a result of equipment failure or any other reason, could reduce, prevent or delay production of its railcars or railcar and industrial components, which could alter the scheduled delivery dates to its customers and affect its production schedule. This could result in the termination of orders, the loss of future sales and a negative impact to ARI's reputation with its customers and in the railcar industry, all of which could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations.All of ARI's facilities are subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events, such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, tornadoes or weather conditions. ARI may experience plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failures, loss of power, delays in equipment deliveries, or extensive damage to any of its facilities, which could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations.Our Railcar segment's investment in expanding its lease fleet may use significant amounts of cash which may require it to secure additional capital and it may be unable to secure capital on favorable terms or to arrange capital on favorable terms, or at all.Our Railcar segment will utilize existing cash and cash generated through lease fleet financing to manufacture railcars it leases to customers, while cash from lease revenues will be received over the term of the lease or leases relating to those railcars. Depending upon the number of railcars that our Railcar segment leases and the amount of cash used in its other operations, its cash balances and its availability under its lease fleet financing could be depleted, requiring it to seek additional capital. Our Railcar segment's inability to secure additional capital, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all may limit its ability to support operations, maintain or expand its existing business, or take advantage of new business opportunities. Our Railcar segment could also experience defaults on leases that could further constrain cash.Our Railcar segment may be unable to re-market railcars from expiring leases on favorable terms, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations.The failure to enter into commercially favorable railcar leases, re-lease or sell railcars upon lease expiration and successfully manage existing leases could materially adversely affect our Railcar segment's business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Railcar segment's ability to re-lease or sell leased railcars profitably is dependent upon several factors, including the cost of and demand for leases or ownership of newer or specific use models, and the availability in the market of other used or new railcars.A downturn in the industries in which our Railcar segment's lessees operate and decreased demand for railcars could also increase its exposure to re-marketing risk because lessees may demand shorter lease terms or newer railcars, requiring it to re-market leased railcars more frequently. Furthermore, the resale market for previously leased railcars has a limited number of potential buyers. Our Railcar segment's inability to re-lease or sell leased railcars on favorable terms could result in lower lease rates, lower lease utilization percentages and reduced revenues.The variable purchase patterns of railcar customers and the timing of completion, customer acceptance and shipment of orders may cause its revenues and income from operations to vary substantially each quarter, which could result in significant fluctuations in our Railcar segment quarterly and annual results.Railcar sales comprised approximately 78%, 76%, and 62% of our Railcar segment's total net sales and other revenues from operations in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Our railcar segment's results of operations in any particular quarterly period may be significantly affected by the number and type of railcars manufactured and shipped in that period, which is impacted by customer needs that vary greatly year to year, as discussed above. The customer acceptance and title transfer or customer acceptance and shipment of our Railcar segment's railcars determine when it records the revenues associated with its railcar sales or leases. Given this, the timing of customer acceptance and title transfer or customer acceptance and shipment of railcars could cause fluctuations in our Railcar segment's quarterly and annual results. The railroads could potentially go on strike or have other service interruptions, which could ultimately create a bottleneck and potentially cause our Railcar segment to slow down or halt its shipment and production schedules, which could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations.As a result of these fluctuations, we believe that comparisons of our Railcar segment's revenues and operating results between quarterly periods within the same year and between quarterly periods within different years may not be meaningful and, as such, these comparisons should not be relied upon as indicators of ARI's future performance.67Some of ARI's railcar services and component manufacturing employees belong to labor unions and strikes or work stoppages by them or unions formed by some or all of ARI's other employees in the future could adversely affect our Railcar operations.As of December 31, 2012, the employees at ARI's sites covered by collective bargaining agreements, in the aggregate, represented approximately 15% of ARI's total workforce. Disputes with regard to the terms of these agreements or ARI's potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions in the future could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by the affected workers. We cannot guarantee that ARI's relations with its union workforce will remain positive nor can we guarantee that union organizers will not be successful in future attempts to organize ARI's railcar manufacturing employees or employees at some of its other facilities. If ARI's workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, other employees were to become unionized or the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, ARI could experience a significant disruption of its operations and higher ongoing labor costs. In addition, ARI could face higher labor costs in the future as a result of severance or other charges associated with layoffs, shutdowns or reductions in the size and scope of its operations.If ARI is unable to protect its intellectual property and prevent its improper use by third parties, ARI's ability to compete in the market may be harmed.Various patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws afford only limited protection and may not prevent ARI's competitors from duplicating its products or gaining access to its proprietary information and technology. These means also may not permit ARI to gain or maintain a competitive advantage. As ARI expands internationally, through its joint ventures or otherwise, it becomes subject to the risk that foreign intellectual property laws will not protect ARI's intellectual property rights to the same extent as intellectual property laws in the U.S.Any of ARI's patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. ARI cannot guarantee that it will be successful should one or more of its patents be challenged for any reason. If ARI's patent claims are rendered invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope, the patent coverage afforded its products could be impaired, which could significantly impede its ability to market its products, negatively affect its competitive position and materially adversely affect our Railcar operations.ARI's pending or future patent applications may not result in an issued patent and, if patents are issued to ARI, such patents may not provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. The U.S. Federal courts may invalidate ARI's patents or find them unenforceable. Competitors may also be able to design around ARI's patents. Other parties may develop and obtain patent protection for more effective technologies, designs or methods. If these developments were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on ARI's sales. If ARI's intellectual property rights are not adequately protected, it may not be able to commercialize it technologies, products or services and its competitors could commercialize its technologies, which could result in a decrease in ARI's sales and market share and could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations.ARI's products could infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may lead to litigation that itself could be costly, result in the payment of substantial damages or royalties, and prevent ARI from using technology that is essential to its products.ARI cannot guarantee you that its products, manufacturing processes or other methods do not infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Infringement and other intellectual property claims and proceedings brought against ARI, whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs and harm its reputation. Such claims and proceedings can also distract and divert ARI's management and key personnel from other tasks important to the success of ARI's business. In the event of an adverse determination in an intellectual property suit or proceeding, or ARI's failure to license essential technology, its sales could be harmed and its costs could increase, which could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations.Food PackagingViskase faces competitors that are better capitalized than it is, and the continuous-flow nature of the casings manufacturing process forces competitors to compete based on price in order to maintain volume, which could adversely affect our Food Packaging operations.Viskase faces competition in the United States and internationally from competitors that may have substantially greater financial resources than it has. The cellulosic casings industry includes competitors that are larger and better capitalized than Viskase is. Currently, Viskase's primary competitors include Viscofan, S.A., Kalle Nalo GmbH and VT Holding Group, although new competitors could enter the market or competing products could be introduced. Although prices for small diameter cellulosic casings have experienced annual increases in recent years, and Viskase believes that the current output in its 68industry is generally in balance with global demand and that levels of capacity utilization are high, the continuous-flow nature of the casings manufacturing process has historically required competitors in its industry to compete based on price in order to maintain volume, which could result in lower pricing in future years. Viskase attempts to differentiate its products on the basis of product quality and performance, product development, service, sales and distribution, but Viskase and competitors in its industry have used price as a competitive factor in an attempt to obtain greater volumes. If prices decline, Viskase may not be able to achieve profitability, whereas certain of its competitors who are better capitalized may be positioned to absorb such price declines. Any of these factors could adversely affect our Food Packaging operations.Viskase receives its raw materials from a limited number of suppliers, and problems with its suppliers could impair its ability to meet its customers' product demands.Viskase's principal raw materials, paper and pulp, constitute an important aspect and cost factor of its operations. Viskase generally purchases its paper and pulp from a single source or a small number of suppliers. Any inability of its suppliers to timely deliver raw materials or any unanticipated adverse change in its suppliers could be disruptive and costly to Viskase. Viskase's inability to obtain raw materials from its suppliers would require it to seek alternative sources. These alternative sources may not be adequate for all of Viskase's raw material needs, nor may adequate raw material substitutes exist in a form that its processes could be modified to use. These risks could materially and adversely affect our Food Packaging operations.Viskase's failure to efficiently respond to industry changes in casings technology could jeopardize its ability to retain its customers and maintain its market share.Viskase and other participants in its industry have considered alternatives to cellulosic casings for many years. As resin technology improves or other technologies develop, alternative casings or other manufacturing methods may be developed that threaten the long-term sustainability and profitability of Viskase's cellulosic casings, which is its core product, and its fibrous casings. Viskase's failure to anticipate, develop or efficiently and timely integrate new technologies that provide viable alternatives to cellulosic casings, including plastic and film alternatives, may cause it to lose customers and market share to competitors integrating such technologies, which, in turn, would negatively impact our Food Packaging operations.Sales of Viskase's products could be negatively affected by problems or concerns with the safety and quality of food products.Viskase could be adversely affected if consumers in the food markets were to lose confidence in the safety and quality of meat or poultry products, particularly with respect to processed meat or poultry products for which casings are used, such as hot dogs, deli meats and sausages. Outbreaks of, or even adverse publicity about the possibility of, diseases such as avian influenza and “mad cow disease,” food-borne pathogens, such as E. coli and listeria, and any other food safety problems or concerns relating to meat and poultry products may discourage consumers from buying such products. These risks could also result in additional governmental regulations, or cause production and delivery disruptions or product recalls. Each of these risks could adversely affect our Food Packaging operations.Business interruptions at any of Viskase's production facilities could increase its operating costs, decrease its sales or cause it to lose customers.The reliability of Viskase's production facilities is critical to the success of its business. In recent years, Viskase has streamlined its productive capacity to be better aligned with its sales volumes. At current operating levels, Viskase has little or no excess production capacity for certain products. If the operations of any of its manufacturing facilities were interrupted or significantly delayed for any reason, including labor stoppages, Viskase may be unable to shift production to another facility without incurring a significant drop in production. Such a drop in production would negatively affect its sales and its relationships with its customers.Viskase's international sales and operations expose it to political and economic risks in foreign countries, as well as to risks related to currency fluctuations, all of which could impair its ability to do business at the international level.Viskase currently has manufacturing or sales and distribution centers in eight foreign countries: Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Mexico, Philippines and Poland. Its international sales and operations may be subject to various political and economic risks, including, but not limited to, possible unfavorable exchange rate fluctuations or hyperinflation; changes in a country's or region's political or economic conditions; governmental regulations, including import and export controls; tariffs; limits on the repatriation of funds; and taxes. Viskase's sales to customers located outside the United States generally are subject to taxes on the repatriation of funds. In addition, international operations in certain parts of the world may be subject to international balance of payments difficulties that may raise the possibility of delay or loss in the collection of accounts receivable from sales to customers in those countries. Historically, net sales to customers located outside the United States represent the majority of Viskase's total net sales.Should any of these risks occur, it could impair Viskase's ability to export its products or conduct sales to customers located outside of the United States and result in a loss of sales and profits from its international operations.69Continued consolidation of Viskase's customers and increasing competition for those customers may put pressure on its sales volumes and revenues.In recent years, the trend among Viskase's customers has been towards consolidation within the meat processing industry. These consolidations have enhanced the purchasing power of its customers who, not being contractually obligated to purchase its products, tend to exert increased pressure with respect to pricing terms, product quality and new products. As Viskase's customer base continues to consolidate, the already high level of competition for the business of fewer customers is expected to intensify. If Viskase does not continue to enhance the value of its product offering in a way that provides greater benefit to its customers, Viskase's sales volumes and revenues could decrease.Viskase's intellectual property rights may be inadequate or violated, or it may be subject to claims of infringement, both of which could negatively affect its financial condition.Viskase relies on a combination of trademarks, patents, trade secret rights and other rights to protect its intellectual property. Viskase's trademark or patent applications may not be approved and its trademarks or patents may be challenged by third parties. Viskase cannot be certain that the steps it has taken will prevent the misappropriation of its intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect its rights as fully as the laws of the United States. From time to time, it has been necessary for Viskase to enforce its intellectual property rights against infringements by third parties, and Viskase expects to continue to do so in the ordinary course of its business. Viskase also may be subjected to claims by others that it has violated their intellectual property rights. Even if Viskase prevails, third party-initiated or company-initiated claims may be time consuming and expensive to resolve, and may result in a diversion of Viskase's time and resources. The occurrence of any of these factors could diminish the value of its trademark, patent and intellectual property portfolio, increase competition within its industry and negatively impact its sales volume and revenues.A substantial portion of Viskase's business is conducted through foreign subsidiaries, and its failure to generate sufficient cash flow from these subsidiaries, or otherwise repatriate or receive cash from these subsidiaries, could result in its inability to repay its indebtedness.Viskase's sales to customers located outside the United States are conducted primarily through subsidiaries organized under the laws of jurisdictions outside of the United States. Viskase's ability to meet its debt service obligations with cash from foreign subsidiaries will depend upon the results of operations of these subsidiaries and may be subject to contractual or other restrictions and other business considerations. In particular, to the extent Viskase's foreign subsidiaries incur additional indebtedness to expand its operations, the ability of its foreign subsidiaries to provide us cash may be limited. In addition, dividend and interest payments to Viskase from its foreign subsidiaries may be subject to foreign withholding taxes, which would reduce the amount of funds it receives from such foreign subsidiaries. Dividends and other distributions from Viskase's foreign subsidiaries may also be subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and restrictions on repatriation, which could further reduce the amount of funds it receives from such foreign subsidiaries.MetalsThe principal markets served by our Metals segment's business are highly competitive. Our Metals segment may have difficulty competing with companies that have a lower cost structure than it has.Our Metals segment's business operates in a highly competitive environment. Our Metals segment primarily provides products and services to industrial companies. Many other companies offer the same or similar products and services and compete with our metals business on a number of bases including, but not limited to: (i) price; (ii) quality of service; (iii) proximity to the consumer; (iv) proximity to sources of supply; (v) local or regional presence; (vi) technology; (vii) safety performance; and (viii) financial strength. Some of these competitors have greater financial resources or are larger and have more diverse businesses. In addition, we also face increased competition from steel mills that are vertically integrated into the scrap metal business. Some of our foreign competitors may be able to pursue business opportunities without regard for the laws and regulations with which we must comply, such as environmental regulations. These companies may have a lower cost structure, and more operating flexibility and consequently they may be able to offer better prices and more services than we can. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with these companies. In addition to larger companies, we compete with many smaller competitors operating locally in this highly fragmented market. Some of these smaller companies may have lower operating costs and may be able to compete more effectively on price.Prices of commodities are volatile and markets are competitive.Our Metals segment is exposed to commodity price risk during the period that it has title to products that are held in inventory for processing and/or resale. Prices of commodities, including scrap metals, can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond PSC Metals' control, including:70•general economic conditions;•labor costs;•domestic and import competition;•financial condition of its major customers;•access and costs associated with transportation systems;•the availability and relative pricing of scrap metal substitutes; and•import duties, ocean freight costs, tariffs and currency exchange rates.In an increasing purchase price environment for raw materials, competitive conditions may limit PSC Metals' ability to pass on price increases to its consumers. In a decreasing sales price environment for processed scrap, PSC Metals may not have the ability to fully recoup the cost of raw scrap metal it processes and sells to its customers. New entrants into its markets could result in higher purchase prices for raw materials and lower margins from our scrap metals. Prices in the scrap metal industry are established and adjusted monthly by the major steel producers. The price of ferrous scrap is a significant factor influencing the profitability of the scrap metals industry.Our Metals segment operates in industries that are cyclical and demand can be volatile. Adverse conditions in the steel industry could negatively affect demand for its materials.The operating results of the scrap metals recycling industry in general, and PSC Metals' operations specifically, are highly cyclical and dependent on general domestic and international economic conditions. Historically, in periods of national recession or slowing economic growth, the operating results of scrap metals recycling companies have been materially and adversely affected. Ferrous and non-ferrous scrap has been historically vulnerable to significant declines in consumption and product pricing during prolonged periods of economic downturn. As a result of the recent global economic crisis and uneven recoveries in the steel, automotive, industrial equipment, construction and other industries, PSC Metals has experienced significant fluctuations in supply, demand and pricing for its products, which could continue to adversely affect our Metals operations. Increases in steel imports and decreases in scrap exports could adversely affect the demand for scrap metals domestically.Our scrap metals business may be adversely affected by increases in steel imports into the United States, which will have an adverse impact on domestic steel production and a corresponding adverse impact on the demand for scrap metals domestically. Our scrap metals business may be adversely affected by decreases of scrap exports out of the United States to export markets such as Turkey, China, South Korea, India and Vietnam which could negatively impact demand prices for scrap metals globally. Additionally, our scrap metals business could be negatively affected by strengthening in the U.S. dollar or increased freight costs which could negatively impact export sales and a stronger U.S. dollar could also attract imports of scrap or scrap substitutes, reducing demand for our scrap metals.A significant increase in the use of scrap metals alternatives by consumers of processed scrap metals could reduce demand for PSC Metals' products.During periods of high demand for scrap metals, the demand for ferrous scrap metal could outstrip its supply. The relative scarcity of ferrous scrap, particularly prime or industrial grades, and its high price during such periods have created opportunities for producers of alternatives to scrap metals, such as pig iron and direct reduced iron pellets and others. We cannot assure you that the use of alternatives to scrap metals may not proliferate in the future if the prices for scrap metals rise, if the supplies of available unprepared ferrous scrap tighten or if costs to import scrap decline precipitously.Unanticipated disruptions in our operations or slowdowns by our shipping companies could adversely affect our ability to deliver our products, which could materially and adversely affect PSC Metals' revenues and its relationship with its consumers. PSC Metals' ability to process and fulfill orders and manage inventory depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of its facilities. In addition, its products are usually transported to customers by third-party truck, rail carriers and barge services. As a result, PSC Metals relies on the timely and uninterrupted performance of third-party shipping companies. Any interruption in its operations or interruption or delay in transportation services could cause orders to be canceled, delivered late, or receipt of goods to be refused or result in higher transportation costs. As a result, PSC Metals' relationships with its customers and its revenues and results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The profitability of PSC Metals' scrap recycling operations depends, in part, on the availability of an adequate source of supply of scrap metals.PSC Metals procures scrap inventory from numerous sources. These suppliers generally are not bound by long-term contracts and have no obligation to sell scrap metals to PSC Metals. In periods of low industry prices, suppliers may elect to hold scrap to wait for higher prices or intentionally slow their scrap sales activities. If a substantial number of scrap suppliers cease selling scrap metals to PSC Metals, its scrap metals business could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the 71slowdown of industrial production and U.S. consumer consumption during the recent economic crisis has reduced industrial grades of scrap metal available to PSC Metals. If the supply of scrap metal is limited, PSC Metals would be unable to recycle scrap metals at necessary volumes which could adversely affect our Metals operations. PSC Metals may pursue acquisitions that involve inherent risks, which may cause it not to realize anticipated benefits. Additionally PSC Metals may not be able to successfully integrate future acquisitions.PSC Metals has completed a number of recent acquisitions and it expects to continue making acquisitions of complementary businesses that enhance its customer base and related markets. Execution of its acquisition strategy involves a number of risks including:•inaccurate assessment of or undisclosed liabilities;•difficulty integrating the personnel and operations of the acquired businesses;•potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired businesses;•difficulties in realizing anticipated cost savings, efficiencies and synergies;•inability to maintain uniform standards, controls and procedures;•managing the growth of a larger company; and•diversion of our management's attention from our everyday business activities. PSC Metals' business presents significant risk of injury or death.Because of the heavy industrial activities conducted at PSC Metals' facilities, there exists a risk of serious injury or death to our employees or other visitors notwithstanding the safety precautions PSC Metals takes. PSC Metals' scrap metals business is subject to regulation by federal, state and local agencies responsible for employee health and safety, including the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. While PSC Metals has in place policies to minimize such risks, it may nevertheless be unable to avoid material liabilities for any death or injury that may occur in the future and these types of incidents may have a material adverse effect on our Metals operations.PSC Metals' business is subject to stringent regulations, particularly under applicable environmental laws.PSC Metals is subject to comprehensive local, state and federal statutory and regulatory environmental requirements relating to, among others:•the acceptance, storage, handling and disposal of solid, hazardous and Toxic Substances Control Act waste;•the discharge of materials into the air;•the management and treatment of wastewater and storm water;•the remediation of soil and groundwater contamination;•the restoration of natural resource damages; and•the protection of its employees' health and safety.PSC Metals believes that it is currently in material compliance with applicable statutes and regulations governing the protection of human health and the environment, including employee health and safety. We can give no assurance, however, that PSC Metals will continue to be in material compliance or avoid material fines, penalties and expenses associated with compliance issues in the future.Such laws and regulations also require manifests to be completed and delivered in connection with any shipment of prescribed materials so that the movement and disposal of such materials can be traced and the persons responsible for any mishandling of such materials identified. Regulatory requirements may be imposed as conditions of operating permits or licenses. As part of its scrap metals business, PSC Metals must properly remove, handle, recycle or dispose of waste materials or be subject to penalties. Transportation, transfer, storage and disposal of waste are difficult and accidents may occur. These laws and regulations are stringent and are likely to become more stringent in the future. Existing and new laws and regulations may require our scrap metals business to modify, supplement, replace or curtail its operating methods or to modify or replace facilities or equipment at costs that may be substantial without any corresponding increase in revenues.Hazardous substances are present in some of the processing, transfer and storage facilities owned or leased by our scrap metal business and landfill facilities used by our scrap metals business. Remediation may be required at these sites at substantial cost. We cannot assure you that the ultimate cost and expense of corrective action will not substantially exceed any reserves and have a material adverse impact on our Metals segment's operations. In addition, governments have from time to time required companies to remediate sites where materials were properly disposed because those governments have instituted higher standards.PSC Metals is required to obtain, and must comply with, various permits and licenses to conduct our scrap metals business. Failure to obtain or violations of any permit or license, if not remedied, could result in PSC Metals' incurring 72substantial fines, suspending our scrap metals business or closing facilities. Further, our scrap metals business is conducted primarily outdoors and as such, depending on the nature of the ground cover, involves the risk of releases of wastes and other regulated materials to the soil and, possibly, to groundwater. From time to time, as part of its continuous improvement programs, PSC Metals incurs costs to improve environmental control systems.PSC Metals' business may be subject to public opposition and adverse publicity that could delay or limit its development and expansion.A high level of public concern exists over industrial by-products recovery operations, including the location and operation of transfer, processing, storage and disposal facilities and the collection, processing or handling of industrial by-products and waste materials, particularly hazardous materials. Zoning, permit and licensing applications and proceedings and regulatory enforcement proceedings are all matters open to public scrutiny and comment. As a result, from time to time, our scrap metals business may be subject to citizen opposition and adverse publicity that may have a negative effect on operations and delay or limit the expansion and developing of operating properties, and could have a material adverse effect on our Metals operation.PSC Metals may be unable to obtain adequate environmental insurance.PSC Metals is subject to potential liability for personal injuries and property damage caused by releases of hazardous substances and for remediation of risks posed by hazardous substances. Consistent with industry trends, PSC Metals may be unable to obtain an adequate amount of environmental impairment insurance for its scrap metals business at a reasonable premium to cover liability to third persons for environmental damage. Accordingly, if our scrap metals business were to incur liability for environmental damage either not provided for under such coverage or in excess of such coverage, our Metals operations could be materially or adversely affected.Increasing energy and freight costs could increase PSC Metal's operating costs.The availability and cost of freight and energy, such as electricity, natural gas and diesel fuel, is important in the manufacture and transport of PSC Metals' products. PSC Metals' operations consume substantial amounts of energy, and its operating costs generally increase when energy costs rise. Factors that may affect PSC Metals' energy costs include significant increases in fuel, oil or natural gas prices, unavailability of electrical power or other energy sources due to droughts, hurricanes or other natural causes or due to shortages resulting from insufficient supplies to serve customers, or interruptions in energy supplies due to equipment failure or other causes. During periods of increasing energy and freight costs, PSC Metals may be unable to fully recover its operating cost increases through price increases without reducing demand for its products. PSC Metals' financial results could be adversely affected if it is unable to pass these increases on to its customers or if it is unable to obtain the necessary freight and energy. PSC Metals' operations are outside and affected by severe changes in the weather. Severe weather or equipment failures may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns.All of PSC Metals' scrap yards can be affected by severe weather and yards that are located adjacent to rivers are subject to potential flooding, all of which can result in production curtailments or shutdowns, which could adversely impact our Metals operations. Our scrap metals business' recycling and manufacturing processes depend, in part, upon shredders, which could be out of service temporarily as a result of unanticipated failures. As a result, PSC Metals may experience interruptions in its scrap metals business' processing and production capabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our Metals operations.Real EstateEconomic downturns may have an adverse effect on the real estate market more than on other industries and its recovery may lag behind the economy as a whole.Sales of our vacation properties in New Seabury, Massachusetts and Florida rely heavily on favorable credit markets and a robust economy. Sale or leasing, including lease renewals, of the commercial properties in our net lease portfolio also rely heavily on financially healthy buyers and tenants. During economic downturns, the value of our real estate portfolio may decline. We cannot assure that our Real Estate operations will be able to recoup its investments in its residential properties or continue to sell or lease its commercial properties at profitable rates. If commercial real estate leases expire during an economic downturn, there can be no assurance that the renewed rents will equal or exceed prior rents, and cost of tenant improvements and other costs would adversely impact property values. Our investment in property development may be more costly than anticipated.Our Real Estate segment has invested and expects to continue to invest in unentitled land, undeveloped land and distressed development properties. These properties involve more risk than properties on which development has been completed. Unentitled land may not be approved for development. These investments do not generate any operating revenue, while costs are incurred to obtain government approvals and develop the properties. Construction may not be completed within budget or as 73scheduled and projected rental levels or sales prices may not be achieved and other unpredictable contingencies beyond the control of our Real Estate operations could occur. Our Real Estate segment will not be able to recoup any of such costs until such time as these properties, or parcels thereof, are either disposed of or developed into income-producing assets.Our Real Estate operations may face adverse effects from tenant bankruptcies or insolvencies.The bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants in our retail, industrial and office properties may adversely affect the income produced by our properties. If a tenant defaults, our Real Estate operations may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing its rights as landlord. If a tenant files for bankruptcy, our Real Estate operations cannot evict the tenant solely because of such bankruptcy. A court, however, may authorize a tenant to reject or terminate its lease with us. Our Real Estate operations may also incur additional vacancy and other re-tenanting expense.Our Real Estate operations may be subject to environmental liability as an owner or operator of development and rental real estate.Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances, pollutants and contaminants released on, under, in or from its property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such substances. To the extent any such substances are found in or on any property invested in by us, our Real Estate segment could be exposed to liability and be required to incur substantial remediation costs. The presence of such substances or the failure to undertake proper remediation may adversely affect the ability to finance, refinance or dispose of such property. Our Real Estate segment generally conducts a Phase I environmental site assessment on properties in which it is considering investing. A Phase I environmental site assessment involves record review, visual site assessment and personnel interviews, but does not typically include invasive testing procedures such as air, soil or groundwater sampling or other tests performed as part of a Phase II environmental site assessment. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that any assessments conducted will disclose all potential liabilities or that future property uses or conditions or changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations or activities at nearby properties will not result in the creation of environmental liabilities with respect to a property.A rising interest rate environment may reduce values of rental real estate properties. A rising interest rate environment may negatively impact values and rental rates may not be able to be raised in a timely manner or at all in order to offset the negative impact on values of increasing rates.Home FashionWPH has had a history of sales declines, net losses and negative cash flow from operations. In 2011 WPH generated positive cash flows from operations for the first time and continued to generate positive cash flows from operations in 2012. However, WPH can provide no assurance that it will ever generate income or continue to provide positive cash flows from operations.WPH has had a history of significant net losses. In addition, our Home Fashion segment has not generated positive cash flows from its operations until 2011. For 2012 and 2011, our Home Fashion segment generated positive cash flow from operations of $11 million and $21 million, respectively, primarily due to changes in working capital. For 2010, our Home fashion segment had net cash used in operating activities of $50 million.We can provide no assurance that our Home Fashion segment will ever generate income or continue to generate positive cash flows from operations. Unless WPH is able to continue to generate positive cash flows from its operations, WPH will require external financing to operate its business.In light of the recent operating performance and challenging industry conditions, our Home Fashion segment is considering various strategic alternatives which may include, without limitation, joint ventures, other forms of strategic alliances and/or a sale or divestiture of all or a significant portion of its assets. In light of WPH's recent operating performance and challenging industry conditions, we are considering various strategic alternatives which may include, without limitation, joint ventures, other forms of strategic alliances, and/or a sale or divestiture of all or a significant portion of WPH's assets. We cannot determine whether any of these transactions will be consummated or, if so, upon what terms. Any sale of WPH may result in consideration that is materially less than the carrying value of our investment in WPH. 74WPH has a limited operating history and acquired its business from the former owners through bankruptcy proceedings in 2005. Certain of the issues that contributed to WestPoint Stevens filing for bankruptcy continue to affect WPH's business operations and financial condition.WPH commenced operations on August 8, 2005 concurrent with the acquisition of assets from WestPoint Stevens as part of its bankruptcy reorganization. Certain of the issues that contributed to WestPoint Stevens' filing for bankruptcy, such as intense industry competition, the inability to produce goods at a cost competitive with overseas suppliers, the increasing prevalence of direct sourcing by principal customers and continued incurrence of overhead costs associated with an enterprise larger than the current business can profitably support, continue to exist and may continue to adversely affect our Home Fashion operations.The home fashion industry is cyclical, seasonal and highly correlated to home sales.The home fashion industry is both cyclical and seasonal, which affects WPH's performance. Traditionally, the home fashion industry is seasonal, with a peak sales season in the fall. In response to this seasonality, WPH increases its inventory levels during the first six months of the year to meet customer demands for the peak fall season. In addition, the home fashion industry is traditionally cyclical and WPH's performance may be negatively affected by downturns in consumer spending. The home fashion industry is also highly correlated to home sales, and WPH's performance has been negatively affected by the downturn in this market.The loss of any of WPH's large customers could have an adverse effect on its business.During 2012, WPH had five customers that accounted for approximately 63% of its net sales. The loss of any of WPH's largest accounts, or a material portion of sales to those accounts, could have an adverse effect upon WPH's business, which could be material.A substantial portion of WPH's sales are derived from licensed designer brands. The loss of a significant license could have an adverse effect on its business.A substantial portion of WPH's sales is derived from licensed designer brands. Some of the licenses are automatically renewable for additional periods, provided that sales thresholds set forth in the license agreements are met. Under certain circumstances, these licenses can be terminated without WPH's consent due to circumstances beyond WPH's control. The license agreements for these designer brands generally are for a term of two or three years. The loss of a significant license could have an adverse effect upon WPH's business, which effect could be material to its business. There was one licensed brand that contributed greater than 10% of WPH's net sales for each of 2012, 2011 and 2010 which contributed approximately $47 million, $61 million and $137 million, respectively, during such respective periods. During 2010 and 2011 there was a global shortage of the principal raw materials WPH uses to manufacture its products, particularly cotton and cotton yarn that forced WPH to pay significantly more for those materials. Any similar or future shortages would increase WPH's cost of goods and cause WPH to increase its prices, which could have an adverse effect on WPH's operations, and, to the extent WPH is not able to pass the cost increases to its customers, the margins on WPH products will be decreased. Any shortage in the raw materials WPH uses to manufacture its products could adversely affect WPH's operations. The principal raw materials that WPH uses in the manufacture of its products are cotton of various grades and staple lengths and polyester and nylon in staple and filament form. During 2010 and 2011, there was a global shortage of cotton and cotton yarn that forced WPH to pay significantly more for those materials. The shortages experienced resulted in the unwillingness of many producers to enter into long-term supply agreements, which resulted in increased price volatility. These shortages further resulted in increased prices for other raw materials, including polyester and nylon. WPH has not historically been able to pass all these cost increases to its customers through increased prices and, when that is the case, the margins on WPH's products have decreased. To the extent WPH increases the prices of its products to take into account any increased costs, WPH's sales may be negatively affected. Any shortage event may also impact the availability of raw materials, thereby adversely impacting the timing and volume of WPH net sales. The home fashion industry is very competitive and WPH's success depends on its ability to compete effectively in its market.The home fashion industry is highly competitive. WPH's future success will, to a large extent, depend on its ability to be a low-cost producer and to remain competitive. WPH competes with both foreign and domestic companies on the basis of price, quality and customer service. WPH's future success depends on its ability to remain competitive in the areas of marketing, product development, price, quality, brand names, manufacturing capabilities, distribution and order processing. Any failure to compete effectively could adversely affect WPH's sales and, accordingly, our Home Fashion operations. Additionally, the easing of trade restrictions over time has led to growing competition from low-priced products imported from Asia and Latin America. The lifting of import quotas in 2005 has accelerated the loss of WPH's market share. 75WPH has a significant percentage of its products that are made overseas. There is no assurance that WPH will be successful in obtaining goods of sufficient quality on a timely basis and on advantageous terms. WPH is subject to additional risks relating to doing business overseas.WPH has as significant percentage of its products that are made overseas and faces additional risks associated with these efforts. WPH currently has a manufacturing facility that it owns through a subsidiary in Bahrain and a manufacturing facility that WPH partially owns pursuant to a joint venture in Pakistan. WPH also has a sourcing office in China and purchases from manufacturers in many foreign countries. WPH has limited experience in overseas procurement and, accordingly, WPH cannot assure you that it will be successful in obtaining goods of sufficient quality on a timely basis and on advantageous terms. Recent civil unrest in Bahrain and Pakistan has not affected WPH's operations in that country to date, but we cannot assure you that future events in Bahrain, or the other foreign countries in which WPH has operations, will not have a material adverse effect on WPH's business, foreign assets or the cost or availability of its goods.There has been consolidation of retailers of home fashion products that may reduce WPH's profitability.The consolidation of retailers of consumer goods has resulted in certain retailers having a greater ability to secure more favorable terms from vendors. Retailers' pricing leverage has resulted in a decline in WPH's unit pricing and margins and resulted in a shift in product mix to more private label programs. If WPH is unable to diminish the decline in its pricing and margins, WPH may not be able to achieve profitability.WPH continues to restructure its operations but these efforts may not be successful.To improve WPH's competitive position, WPH intends to continue to significantly reduce its cost of goods sold by restructuring some of WPH's remaining operations in the plants located in the United States, increasing production within WPH's non-U.S. facilities and joint venture operation and sourcing goods from lower-cost overseas facilities and vendors. There is no assurance that WPH will be successful in its continuing restructuring efforts, the failure of which could adversely impact WPH's profitability and ability to compete effectively.The retail industry in the United States is highly competitive and subject to the various economic cycles of consumer demand. WPH is subject to the retailers' demand for products as manifest by underlying consumer spending. WPH may incur adverse financial consequences if WPH's retail customers experience adverse financial results.Retailers of consumer goods are dependent upon consumer spending. In turn, consumer spending is broadly a function of the overall economic environment. Given the weaknesses in the overall economy, and in the home sales market specifically, the level of consumer retail spending for home textile products is likely to decline, which would have an adverse impact on WPH's business and financial results. In the current unsettled economic environment, the indicators are that consumers are not purchasing discretionary goods to the extent they have in the past. To the extent that retailers of consumer goods are faced with financial difficulties due to weakened consumer demand, depending upon the amount of business that WPH does with any such customer, WPH's financial results may be adversely affected. This adverse impact could arise out of the potential recoverability of a receivable from a financially impaired retailer or from a customer doing less business with WPH. WPH believes it maintains adequate receivable reserves for specifically known events and an overall general provision for unknown circumstances. However, depending upon the magnitude of any future unknown event, these reserves may not be sufficient.WPH is subject to various U.S. federal, state and local and foreign laws, rules and regulations. If WPH does not comply with these laws, rules and regulations, it may incur significant costs in the future to become compliant.WPH is subject to various U.S. federal, state and local and foreign laws, rules and regulations governing, among other things, the discharge, storage, handling, usage and disposal of a variety of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes used in, or resulting from, WPH's operations, including potential remediation obligations under those laws and regulations. WPH's operations are also governed by U.S. federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations relating to employee safety and health which, among other things, establish exposure limitations for cotton dust, formaldehyde, asbestos and noise, and which regulate chemical, physical and ergonomic hazards in the workplace. Although WPH does not expect that compliance with any of these laws, rules and regulations will materially adversely affect our Home Fashion operations, WPH cannot assure you that regulatory requirements will not become more stringent in the future or that WPH will not incur significant costs to comply with those requirements.Holding CompanyWe may not be able to identify suitable investments, and our investments may not result in favorable returns or may result in losses.Our partnership agreement allows us to take advantage of investment opportunities we believe exist outside of our operating businesses. The equity securities in which we may invest may include common stock, preferred stock and securities 76convertible into common stock, as well as warrants to purchase these securities. The debt securities in which we may invest may include bonds, debentures, notes or non-rated mortgage-related securities, municipal obligations, bank debt and mezzanine loans. Certain of these securities may include lower rated or non-rated securities, which may provide the potential for higher yields and therefore may entail higher risk and may include the securities of bankrupt or distressed companies. In addition, we may engage in various investment techniques, including derivatives, options and futures transactions, foreign currency transactions, “short” sales and leveraging for either hedging or other purposes. We may concentrate our activities by owning significant or controlling interest in certain investments. We may not be successful in finding suitable opportunities to invest our cash and our strategy of investing in undervalued assets may expose us to numerous risks.We have entered into a covered affiliate agreement, pursuant to which we (and certain of our subsidiaries) have agreed, in general, to be bound by certain restrictions on our investments in any assets that the General Partners deem suitable for the Investment Funds, other than government and agency bonds, cash equivalents and investments in non-public companies. We and our subsidiaries will not be restricted from making investments in the securities of certain companies in which Mr. Icahn or companies he controlled had an interest in as of the date of the initial launch of the Investment Funds, and companies in which we had an interest as of the date of the acquisition of the partnership interests on August 8, 2007 of our Investment business. We and our subsidiaries, either alone or acting together with a group, will not be restricted from (i) acquiring all or any portion of the assets of any public company in connection with a negotiated transaction or series of related negotiated transactions or (ii) engaging in a negotiated merger transaction with a public company and, pursuant thereto, conducting and completing a tender offer for securities of the company.We have made significant investments in the Investment Funds and negative performance of the Investment Funds may result in a significant decline in the value of our investments.We have interests aggregating approximately $2.4 billion in the Investment Funds. If the Investment Funds experience negative performance, the value of these investments will be negatively impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flows and financial position.Our investments may be subject to significant uncertainties.Our investments may not be successful for many reasons, including, but not limited to:•fluctuations of interest rates;•lack of control in minority investments;•worsening of general economic and market conditions;•lack of diversification;•the success of the Investment Funds' activist strategies;•fluctuations of U.S. dollar exchange rates; and•adverse legal and regulatory developments that may affect particular businesses.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.