Risk Factors Our success depends heavily upon our ability to market our crude oil and natural gas production at favorable prices. In recent decades there have been both periods of worldwide overproduction and underproduction of crude oil and natural gas and periods of increased and relaxed energy conservation efforts. Such conditions have resulted in excess supply of, and reduced demand for, crude oil on a worldwide basis and for natural gas on a domestic basis. At other times, there has been short supply of, and increased demand for, crude oil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas. These changes have resulted in dramatic price fluctuations. Our substantial indebtedness could possibly have important consequences to our shareholders, including the following: (i) Funds available for our operations and general corporate purposes or for capital expenditures will be reduced as a result of the dedication of a portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations to the payment of the principal and interest on our indebtedness; (ii) We may be more highly leveraged than certain of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; (iii) Certain of the borrowings under our debt agreements have floating rates of interest, which causes us to be vulnerable to increases in interest rates; (iv) Our degree of leverage could make us more vulnerable to downturns in general economic conditions; (v) Our ability to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate may be limited; and (vi) Our ability to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, investments, debt service requirements and other general corporate requirements may be reduced. In addition, our senior secured first lien revolving credit facility and senior secured second lien term loan facility contain a number of significant negative covenants that place limits on our activities and operations, including those relating to: • creation of liens, • hedging, • mergers, acquisitions, asset sales or dispositions, • payments of dividends, • incurrence of additional indebtedness, and • certain leases and investments outside of the ordinary course of business. 6 Our credit facilities require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Our ability to comply with these ratios and financial condition tests may be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet these ratios and financial condition tests. These financial ratio restrictions and financial condition tests could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary or desirable corporate activities. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or financial condition tests could result in a default under our credit facilities. A default, if not cured or waived, could result in all of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we may not be able to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. We had outstanding debt of $235.8 million on our credit facilities at March 20, 2008. We may borrow up to an additional $114.2 million under our revolving credit facility to fund acquisitions or for general corporate purposes. Our debt obligations could increase substantially. We have incurred net losses in the past and there can be no assurance that we will be profitable in the future. We have incurred net losses in three of the last five fiscal years. We cannot assure you that our current level of operating results will continue or improve. Our activities could require additional debt or equity financing on our part. Since the terms and availability of this financing depend to a large degree upon general economic conditions and third parties over which we have no control, we can give no assurance that we will obtain the needed financing or that we will obtain such financing on attractive terms. In addition, our ability to obtain financing depends on a number of other factors, many of which are also beyond our control, such as interest rates and national and local business conditions. If the cost of obtaining needed financing is too high or the terms of such financing are otherwise unacceptable in relation to the opportunity we are presented with, we may decide to forego that opportunity. Additional indebtedness could increase our leverage and make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. Additional equity financing could result in dilution to our shareholders. Our future operating results may fluctuate significantly depending upon a number of factors, including industry conditions, prices of crude oil and natural gas, rates of production, timing of capital expenditures and drilling success. These variables could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our Common Stock. We may not be able to successfully integrate the properties and assets we acquire with our existing operations. Integration of the properties and assets we acquire may be a complex, time consuming and costly process. Failure to timely and successfully integrate these assets and properties with our operations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operations. The difficulties of integrating these assets and properties present numerous risks, including: • the acquisition may prove unprofitable and fail to generate anticipated cash flows; • we may need to (i) recruit additional personnel and, in this highly competitive labor market, we cannot be certain that any of our recruiting efforts will succeed, and (ii) expand corporate infrastructure to facilitate the integration of our operations with those associated with the acquired properties, and failure to do so may lead to disruptions in our ongoing businesses or distract our management; and • our management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns. We are also exposed to risks that are commonly associated with acquisitions of this type, such as unanticipated liabilities and costs, some of which may be material. As a result, the anticipated benefits of acquiring assets and properties may not be fully realized, if at all. 7 Estimates of crude oil and natural gas reserves depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Estimates of our proved reserves for crude oil and natural gas and the estimated future net revenues from the production of such reserves rely upon various assumptions, including assumptions as to crude oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves is complex and imprecise. Actual future production, crude oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable crude oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from the estimates we obtain from reserve engineers. Any significant variance in these assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves we have set forth. In addition, our proved reserves may be subject to downward revision due to factors that are beyond our control, such as production history, results of future exploration and development, prevailing crude oil and natural gas prices and other factors. Approximately 25% of our total estimated proved reservesat December 31, 2007 were proved undeveloped reserves, which are by their nature less certain. Recovery of such reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The reserve data set forth in the reserve engineer reports assumes that substantial capital expenditures are required to develop such reserves. Although cost and reserve estimates attributable to our crude oil and natural gas reserves have been prepared in accordance with industry standards, we cannot be sure that the estimated costs are accurate, that development will occur as scheduled or that the results of such development will be as estimated. You should not interpret the present valuereferred to in this annual report as the current market value of our estimated crude oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission requirements, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are generally based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. The estimates of our proved reserves and the future net revenues from which the present value of our properties is derived were calculated based on the actual prices of our various properties on a property-by-property basis at December 31, 2007. The average sales prices of all properties were $89.92 per barrel of oil, $6.86 per thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of natural gas and $66.34 per barrel of natural gas liquids at that date. Actual future net cash flows will also be affected by increases or decreases in consumption by crude oil and natural gas purchasers and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both the production and the incurring of expenses in connection with the development and production of crude oil and natural gas properties affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which is required by the Securities and Exchange Commission to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor. The effective interest rate at various times and the risks associated with our business or the oil and gas industry in general will affect the accuracy of the 10% discount factor. Except to the extent that we acquire properties containing proved reserves or conduct successful development or exploitation activities, our proved reserves will decline as they are produced. In general, the volume of production from crude oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. Our future crude oil and natural gas production is highly dependent upon our success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. 8 The business of acquiring, enhancing or developing reserves requires considerable capital. Our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of crude oil and natural gas reserves could be impaired to the extent that cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. In addition, we cannot be sure that our future acquisition and development activities will result in additional proved reserves or that we will be able to drill productive wells at acceptable costs. Crude oil and natural gas drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include (i) the possibility that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered; and, (ii) that operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled due to title problems, weather conditions, governmental requirements, mechanical difficulties, or delays in the delivery of drilling rigs and other equipment that may limit our ability to develop, produce and market our reserves. We cannot assure you that new wells we drill will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such new wells. Drilling for crude oil and natural gas may not be profitable. Any wells that we drill may be dry wells or wells that are not sufficiently productive to be profitable after drilling. Such wells will have a negative impact on our profitability. In addition, our properties may be susceptible to drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties. The interpretation and analysis of 3-D seismic data does not allow the interpreter to know if hydrocarbons are present or economically producible. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop and exploit prospects or properties depend in part on data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are uncertain. Even when used and properly interpreted, 3-D seismic data and visualization techniques only assist geoscientists and geologists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators. They do not allow the interpreter to know if hydrocarbons are present or producible economically. In addition, the use of 3-D seismic and other advanced technologies require greater predrilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies. Our industry experiences numerous operating risks that could cause us to suffer substantial losses. Such risks include fire, hurricanes, explosions, blowouts, pipe failure and environmental hazards, such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases. We could also suffer losses due to personnel injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property; or environmental damage that could result in clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation, penalties or suspension of our operations. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance policies against some, but not all, of the risks described above. Our insurance policies may not adequately protect us against loss or liability. There is no guarantee that insurance policies that protect us against the many risks we face will continue to be available at justifiable premium levels. As owners and operators of crude oil and natural gas properties, we may be liable under federal, state and local environmental regulations for activities involving water pollution, hazardous waste transport, storage, disposal or other activities. Our past growth has been attributable to acquisitions of producing crude oil and natural gas properties with proved reserves. There are risks involved with such acquisitions. The successful acquisition of properties requires an assessment of recoverable reserves, future crude oil and natural gas prices, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities, and other factors beyond our control. Such assessments are necessarily inexact and their accuracy uncertain. In connection with such an assessment, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Such a review, however, will not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us, as the buyer, to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their capabilities or deficiencies. We may not inspect every well and, even when an inspection is undertaken, structural and environmental problems may not necessarily be observable. 9 When we acquire properties, in most cases, we are not entitled to contractual indemnification for pre-closing liabilities, including environmental liabilities. We generally acquire interests in properties on an “as is” basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties, and in these situations we cannot assure you that we will identify all areas of existing or potential exposure. In those circumstances in which we have contractual indemnification rights for pre-closing liabilities, we cannot assure you that the seller will be able to fulfill its contractual obligations. In addition, the competition to acquire producing crude oil and natural gas properties is intense and many of our larger competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours. We cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire producing crude oil and natural gas properties that have economically recoverable reserves for acceptable prices. We may acquire royalty, overriding royaltyor working interestsin properties that are less than the controlling interest. In such cases, it is likely that we will not operate, nor control the decisions affecting the operations, of such properties. We intend to limit such acquisitions to properties operated by competent parties with whom we have discussed their plans for operation of the properties. We will need additional financing in the future to continue to fund our development and exploitation activities. We have made and will continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our exploitation and development projects. We intend to finance these capital expenditures with cash flow from operations, existing financing arrangements or new financing. We cannot assure you that such additional financing will be available. If it is not available, our development and exploitation activities may have to be curtailed, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The marketing of our natural gas production depends, in part, upon the availability, proximity and capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. We could be adversely affected by changes in existing arrangements with transporters of our natural gas since we do not own most of the gathering systems and pipelines through which our natural gas is delivered to purchasers. Our ability to produce and market our natural gas could also be adversely affected by federal, state and local regulation of production and transportation. The crude oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive in all of its phases. Competition is particularly intense with respect to the acquisition of desirable producing properties, the acquisition of crude oil and natural gas prospects suitable for enhanced production efforts, the obtaining of goods and services from industry providers, and the hiring of experienced personnel. Our competitors in crude oil and natural gas acquisition, development, and production include the major oil companies, in addition to numerous independent crude oil and natural gas companies, individual proprietors and drilling programs. Many of these competitors possess and employ financial and personnel resources substantially in excess of those which are available to us and may, therefore, be able to pay more for desirable producing properties and prospects and to define, evaluate, bid for, and purchase a greater number of producing properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources will permit. Our ability to generate reserves in the future will be dependent on our ability to select and acquire suitable producing properties and prospects while competing with these companies. The domestic oil industry is extensively regulated at both the federal and state levels. Although we believe we are presently in compliance with all laws, rules and regulations, we cannot assure you that changes in such laws, rules or regulations, or the interpretation thereof, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or the results of our operations. Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden on the industry. There are numerous federal and state agencies authorized to issue 10 rules and regulations affecting the oil and gas industry. These rules and regulations are often difficult and costly to comply with and carry substantial penalties for noncompliance. State statutes and regulations require permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, and reports concerning operations. Most states also have statutes and regulations governing conservation matters, including the unitization or pooling of properties, and the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells. Some states have also enacted statutes prescribing price ceilings for natural gas sold within their states. Our industry is also subject to numerous laws and regulations governing plugging and abandonment of wells, discharge of materials into the environment and other matters relating to environmental protection. The heavy regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the costs of our doing business as an oil and gas company, consequently affecting our profitability. If we are unable to successfully address material weaknesses in our internal controls, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting and it may also result in regulatory sanctions or fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. For the quarter ended March 31, 2007, our management concluded that we did not maintain effective controls over the preparation and review of the quarterly and annual tax provision and the related financial statement presentation and disclosure of income tax matters. Specifically, our historical documentation of related tax positions was not adequate to ensure the completeness and accuracy of FIN 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, requirements for the quarter ended March 31, 2007, and could have resulted in a misstatement in the aforementioned tax accounts that could result in a material misstatement to the annual or interim financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. Accordingly, management concluded that this deficiency in internal control over financial reporting was a material weakness. Accordingly, in July 2007 we retained the services of a top tier tax accounting firm with expertise to assist us in the preparation of our disclosures and returns related to taxes. We have also identified and documented our key controls as they relate to taxes. Our President and Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer were able to conclude based on their evaluation that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective. Any failure to maintain the improvements in the controls over our financial reporting that we have currently put in place, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, to fail to produce reliable financial reports or to prevent fraud. We have “blank check” preferred stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without further shareholder action in one or more series and to designate the dividend rate, voting rights and other rights preferences and restrictions. The issuance of preferred stock could have an adverse impact on holders of Common Stock. Preferred stock is senior to Common Stock. Additionally, preferred stock could be issued with dividend rights senior to the rights of holders of Common Stock. Finally, preferred stock could be issued as part of a “poison pill”, which could have the effect of deterring offers to acquire the Company. See “Description of Securities” We are not paying dividends on our Common Stock. Our board of directors presently intends to retain all of our earnings for the expansion of our business; therefore we do not anticipate distributing cash dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. Any decision of our board of directors to pay cash dividends will depend upon our earnings, financial position, cash requirements and other factors. One investor controls us. As a result of preferred stock offerings in February 2005, OCMGW Holdings (“OCMGW”) acquired a controlling interest in us. OCMGW holds 2.0 million shares of common stock and has or has the right to acquire approximately 5.6 million shares of common stock pursuant to conversion of preferred stock held by it as follows: 11 (i) Series G Preferred Stock, including undeclared convertible dividends, and (ii) Series H Preferred Stock. Should OCMGW elect to convert its preferred stock, including accrued but unpaid dividends, together with the common stock currently held by it, OCMGW would hold approximately 63% of our outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis, assuming conversion of all preferred stock and the exercise of all vested stock options of the Company, whether “in” or “out of” the money. Pursuant to the terms of Series G Preferred Stock, the holders of the Series G Preferred Stock, voting as a class, have the right to elect a majority of our board of directors. OCMGW currently owns approximately 95% of the Series G Preferred Stock. Additionally, OCMGW and all current directors and officers as a group represent approximately 73% of the outstanding voting power on a fully diluted basis (assuming conversion of all preferred stock, and exercise all currently exercisable options, whether “in” or “out” of the money). For as long as OCMGW and the other directors and officers continue to own over a majority of the outstanding voting power, they will be able to control matters submitted to shareholders. The holders of our Common Stock do not have cumulative voting rights, preemptive rights or rights to convert their Common Stock to other securities. We are authorized to issue 200.0 million shares of Common Stock, $0.001 par value per share. As of March 20, 2008 there were 5.2 million shares of Common Stock issued and outstanding. Since the holders of our Common Stock do not have cumulative voting rights, the holder(s) of a majority of the shares of Common Stock and Series H Preferred Stock (on an as converted basis) present, in person or by proxy, will be able to elect all of the remaining members of our board of directors that the holders of the Series G Preferred Stock are not entitled to elect as a class. The holders of shares of our Common Stock do not have preemptive rights or rights to convert their Common Stock into other securities. The number of shares of outstanding Common Stock could increase significantly as a result of the 2005 sale of Series G Preferred Stock sold to OCMGW and Affiliates. If all of the Common Stock underlying our various convertible and derivative securities, including granted employee stock options, is issued by us, the number of our outstanding shares of Common Stock would increase to approximately 10.7 million shares. Currently, we are authorized to issue 200.0 million shares of our Common Stock, 5.2 million shares of which are outstanding as of March 20, 2008. It is impossible to say how many shares, if any, we will issue and how many shares, in turn, will be resold. However, it is possible that our stock price could decline significantly as a result of an increased number of shares being offered into the market. Our common stock is thinly traded and there is no active trading market for our common stock and an active trading market may not develop. Our common stock is not listed on any national or regional securities exchange. Quotations for shares of our common stock are listed by certain members of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. on the OTC Electronic Bulletin Board. In recent years, the trading volume of our common stock has been very low and the transactions that have occurred were typically effected in transactions for which reliable market quotations have not been available. An active trading market may not develop or, if developed, may not continue for our equity securities, and a holder of any of these securities may find it difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of such securities. 