Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company has experienced significant increases in raw material prices, particularly lead, and further changes in the prices of raw materials or in energy costs could have a material adverse impact on the Company. Lead is the primary material used in the manufacture of batteries, representing approximately 49% of the Company’s cost of goods sold. Average lead prices quoted on the London Metal Exchange (“LME”) have risen dramatically, increasing from $1,426 per metric ton for fiscal 2007 to $2,856 per metric ton for fiscal 2008. As of June 3, 2008, lead prices quoted on the LME were $2,030 per metric ton. If the Company is unable to increase the prices of its products proportionate to the increase in raw material costs, the Company’s gross margins will decline. The Company cannot provide assurance that it will be able to hedge its lead requirements at reasonable costs or that the Company will be able to pass on these costs to its customers. Increases in the Company’s prices could also cause customer demand for the Company’s products to be reduced and net sales to decline. The rising cost of lead requires the Company to make significant investments in inventory and accounts receivable, which reduces amounts of cash available for other purposes, including making payments on its notes and other indebtedness. The Company also consumes significant amounts of polypropylene, steel and other materials in its manufacturing process and incurs energy costs in connection with manufacturing and shipping of its products. The market prices of these materials are also subject to fluctuation, which could further reduce the Company’s available cash. Fuel costs have also increased significantly in recent months. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to pass along price increases to address higher fuel costs related to the distribution of products from our warehouses and distribution centers to our customers. The Company remains subject to a preliminary SEC inquiry. The Enforcement Division of the SEC is conducting a preliminary inquiry into statements the Company made during fiscal 2005 about its ability to comply with fiscal 2005 loan covenants and the going concern qualification in the audit report in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2005, which the Company filed with the SEC in June 2005. This preliminary inquiry remains in process, and should it result in a formal investigation, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Company is subject to fluctuations in exchange rates and other risks associated with its non-U.S. operations which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company has significant manufacturing operations in, and exports to, several countries outside the U.S. Approximately 61.4% of the Company’s net sales for fiscal 2008 were generated in Europe and ROW with the vast majority generated in Europe in Euros and British Pounds. Because such a significant portion of the Company’s operations are based overseas, the Company is exposed to foreign currency risk, resulting in uncertainty as to future assets and liability values, and results of operations that are denominated in foreign currencies. The Company invoices foreign sales and service transactions in local currencies, using actual exchange rates during the period, and translates these revenues and expenses into U.S. Dollars at average monthly exchange rates. Because a significant portion of the Company’s net sales and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies, the depreciation of these foreign currencies in relation to the U.S. Dollar could adversely affect the Company’s reported net sales and operating margins. The Company translates its non-U.S. assets and liabilities into U.S. Dollars using current rates as of the balance sheet date. Therefore, 12 Table of Contents foreign currency depreciation against the U.S. Dollar would result in a decrease in the Company’s net investment in foreign subsidiaries. In addition, foreign currency depreciation, particularly depreciation of the Euro, would make it more expensive for the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries to purchase certain raw material commodities that are priced globally in U.S. Dollars, such as lead, which is quoted on the LME in U.S. Dollars. The Company does not engage in significant hedging of its foreign currency exposure and cannot assure that it will be able to hedge its foreign currency exposures at a reasonable cost. There are other risks inherent in the Company’s non-U.S. operations, including: • Changes in local economic conditions, including disruption of markets; • Changes in laws and regulations, including changes in import, export, labor and environmental laws; • Exposure to possible expropriation or other government actions; and • Unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against American interests. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s non-U.S. operations or on its business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company’s liquidity is affected by the seasonality of its business. Warm winters and cool summers adversely affect the Company. The Company sells a disproportionate share of its automotive aftermarket batteries during the fall and early winter. Resellers buy automotive batteries during these periods so they will have sufficient inventory for cold weather periods. In addition, many of the Company’s industrial battery customers in Europe do not place their battery orders until the end of the calendar year. This seasonality increases the Company’s working capital requirements and makes it more sensitive to fluctuations in the availability of liquidity. Unusually cold winters or hot summers may accelerate battery failure and increase demand for automotive replacement batteries. Mild winters and cool summers may have the opposite effect. As a result, if the Company’s sales are reduced by an unusually warm winter or cool summer, it is not possible for the Company to recover these sales in later periods. Further, if the Company’s sales are adversely affected by the weather, it cannot make offsetting cost reductions to protect the Company’s liquidity and gross margins in the short-term because a large portion of the Company’s manufacturing and distribution costs are fixed. Decreased demand in the industries in which the Company operates may adversely affect its business. The Company’s financial performance depends, in part, on conditions in the automotive, material handling, and telecommunications industries which, in turn, are generally dependent on the U.S. and global economies. As a result, economic and other factors adversely affecting production by OEMs and their customers’ spending could adversely impact the Company’s business. Relatively modest declines in customer purchases from the Company could have a significant adverse impact on its profitability because the Company has substantial fixed production costs. If the Company’s OEM and large aftermarket customers reduce their inventory levels, and reduce their orders, the Company’s performance would be significantly adversely impacted. In this environment, the Company cannot predict future production rates or inventory levels or the underlying economic factors. Continued uncertainty and unexpected fluctuations may adversely affect the Company’s business. The remaining portion of the Company’s battery sales are of aftermarket batteries. The factors influencing demand for automotive replacement batteries include: (1) the number of vehicles in use; (2) average battery life; (3) the average age of vehicles and their operating environment; (4) average miles driven, (5) weather conditions; and (6) population growth and overall economic conditions. Any significant adverse change in any one of these factors may adversely affect the Company’s business. 13 Table of Contents The loss of the Company’s sole supplier of polyethylene battery separators would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company relies exclusively on a single supplier to fulfill its needs for polyethylene battery separators — a critical component of many of the Company’s products. There is no second source that could readily provide the volume of polyethylene separators used by the Company. As a result, any major disruption in supply from this supplier would have a material adverse impact on the Company. If the Company is not able to maintain a good relationship with this supplier, or if for reasons beyond the Company’s control the supplier’s service was disrupted, it would have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business. Many of the industries in which the Company operates are cyclical. The Company’s operating results are affected by the general cyclical pattern of the industries in which its major customer groups operate. Any decline in the demand for new automobiles, light trucks, or sport utility vehicles could have a material adverse impact on the financial condition and results of operations of the Company’s Transportation segments. A weak capital expenditure environment in the telecommunications, uninterruptible power systems or electric industrial forklift truck markets could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial positions, and results of operations, and cash flow of the Company’s Industrial Energy segments. The Company is subject to pricing pressure from its larger customers. The Company faces significant pricing pressures in all of its business segments from its larger customers. Because of their purchasing volume, the Company’s larger customers can influence market participants to compete on price and other terms. Such customers also use their buying power to negotiate lower prices. If the Company is not able to offset pricing reductions resulting from these pressures by improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, those price reductions may have an adverse impact on the Company’s business. The Company faces increasing competition and pricing pressure from other companies in its industries, and if the Company is unable to compete effectively with these competitors, the Company’s sales and profitability could be adversely affected. The Company competes with a number of major domestic and international manufacturers and distributors of lead acid batteries, as well as a large number of smaller, regional competitors. Due to excess capacity in some sectors of its industry and consolidation among industrial purchasers, the Company has been subjected to continual and significant pricing pressures. The North American, European and Asian lead-acid battery markets are highly competitive. The manufacturers in these markets compete on price, quality, technical innovation, service, and warranty. In addition, the Company is experiencing heightened competitive pricing pressure as Asian producers, which are able to employ labor at significantly lower costs than producers in the U.S. and Western Europe, expand their export capacity and increase their marketing presence in the Company’s major markets. If the Company is not able to develop new products or improve upon its existing products on a timely basis, the Company’s business and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Company believes that its future success depends, in part, on the ability to develop, on a timely basis, new technologically advanced products or improve on the Company’s existing products in innovative ways that meet or exceed its competitors’ product offerings. Maintaining the Company’s market position will require continued investment in research and development and sales and marketing. Industry standards, customer expectations, or other products may emerge that could render one or more of the Company’s products less desirable or obsolete. The Company may be unsuccessful in making the technological advances necessary to develop new products or improve its existing products to maintain its market position. If any of these events occur, it could cause decreases in sales and have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flow. 14 Table of Contents The Company may be adversely affected by the instability and uncertainty in the world financial markets and the global economy, including the effects of turmoil in the Middle East. Instability in the world financial markets and the global economy, including (and as a result of) the turmoil in the Middle East, may create uncertainty in the industries in which the Company operates, and may adversely affect its business. In addition, terrorist activities may cause unpredictable or unfavorable economic conditions and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flow. The Company may be unable to successfully implement its business strategy, which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s ability to achieve its business and financial objectives is subject to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. For example, the Company may not be successful in increasing its manufacturing and distribution efficiency through productivity, process improvements and cost reduction initiatives. Further, the Company may not be able to realize the benefits of these improvements and initiatives within the time frames the Company currently expects. In addition, the Company may not be successful in increasing the Company’s percentage of captive arrangements and spent-battery collections or in hedging its lead requirements, leaving it exposed to fluctuations in the price of lead. Any failure to successfully implement the Company’s business strategy could adversely affect results of operations and financial condition, and could further impair the Company’s ability to make certain strategic capital expenditures and meet its restructuring objectives. The Company is subject to costly regulation in relation to environmental, health and safety matters, which could adversely affect its business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flow. In the manufacture of its products throughout the world, the Company manufactures, distributes, recycles, and otherwise uses large amounts of potentially hazardous materials, especially lead and acid. As a result, the Company is subject to a substantial number of costly regulations. In particular, the Company is required to comply with increasingly stringent requirements of federal, state, and local environmental, occupational health and safety laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries, including those governing emissions to air, discharges to water, noise and odor emissions; the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal of waste materials; and the cleanup of contaminated properties and human health and safety. Compliance with these laws and regulations results in ongoing costs. The Company could also incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines, and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or costs to upgrade or replace existing equipment, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws or non-compliance with environmental permits required at its facilities. In addition, many of the Company’s current and former facilities are located on properties with histories of industrial or commercial operations. Because some environmental laws can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup upon any of the current or former owners or operators, regardless of fault, the Company could become liable for the cost of investigating or remediating contamination at these properties if contamination requiring such activities is discovered in the future. The Company may become obligated to pay material remediation-related costs at its closed Tampa, Florida facility in the amount of approximately $12.5 million to $20.5 million, at the Columbus, Georgia facility in the amount of approximately $6.0 million to $9.0 million and at the Sonalur, Portugal facility in the amount of approximately $2.0 million. The Company cannot be certain that it has been, or will at all times be, in complete compliance with all environmental requirements, or that the Company will not incur additional material costs or liabilities in connection with these requirements in excess of amounts it has reserved. Private parties, including current or former employees, could bring personal injury or other claims against the Company due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances used, stored or disposed of by it, or contained in its products, especially lead. Environmental requirements are complex and have tended to become more stringent over time. These requirements or their enforcement may change in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company has made and will continue to make expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. These requirements, 15 Table of Contents responsibilities and associated expenses and expenditures, if they continue to increase, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. While the Company’s costs to defend and settle claims arising under environmental laws in the past have not been material, the Company cannot provide assurance that this will remain so in the future. The Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) or state environmental agencies could take the position that the Company has liability under environmental laws that were not discharged in bankruptcy. To the extent these authorities are successful in disputing the pre-petition nature of these claims, the Company could be required to perform remedial work that has not yet been performed for alleged pre-petition contamination, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. The EPA or state environmental agencies could take the position that the Company has liability under environmental laws that were not discharged in bankruptcy. To the extent these authorities are successful in disputing the pre-petition nature of these claims, the Company could be required to perform remedial work that has not yet been performed for alleged pre-petition contamination, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. The Company previously has been advised by the EPA or state agencies that it is a “Potentially Responsible Party” under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act or similar state laws at 100 federally defined Superfund or state equivalent sites. At 45 of these sites, the Company has paid its share of liability. While the Company believes it is probable its liability for most of the remaining sites will be treated as disputed unsecured claims under the Plan, there can be no assurance these matters will be discharged. If the Company’s liability is not discharged at one or more sites, the government may be able to file claims for additional response costs in the future, or to order the Company to perform remedial work at such sites. In addition, the EPA, in the course of negotiating this pre-petition claim, had notified the Company of the possibility of additional clean-up costs associated with Hamburg, Pennsylvania properties of approximately $35.0 million. The EPA has provided summaries of past costs and an estimate of future costs that approximate the amounts in its notification; however, the Company disputes certain elements of the claimed past costs, has not received sufficient information supporting the estimated future costs, and is in negotiations with the EPA. To the extent the EPA or other environmental authorities dispute the pre-petition nature of these claims, the Company would intend to resist any such effort to evade the bankruptcy law’s intended result, and believes there are substantial legal defenses to be asserted in that case. However, there can be no assurance that the Company would be successful in challenging any such actions. The Company may be adversely affected by legal proceedings to which the Company is, or may become, a party. The Company and its subsidiaries are currently, and may in the future become, subject to legal proceedings which could adversely affect its results of business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The cost of resolving the Company’s pre-petition disputed claims, including legal and other professional fees involved in settling or litigating these matters, could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. At March 31, 2008, there are approximately 200 pre-petition disputed unsecured claims on file in the bankruptcy case that remain to be resolved through the Plan’s claims reconciliation and allowance procedures. The Company established a reserve of common stock and warrants to purchase common stock for issuance to holders of these disputed unsecured claims as the claims are allowed by the Bankruptcy Court. Although these claims are generally resolved through the issuance of common stock and warrants from the reserve rather than cash payments, the process of resolving these claims through settlement or litigation requires considerable Company resources, including expenditures for legal and professional fees and the attention of Company personnel. These costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Work stoppages or other labor issues at the Company’s facilities or its customers’ or suppliers’ facilities could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. At March 31, 2008, approximately 22% of the Company’s hourly employees in the Americas and many of its non-U.S. employees were unionized. It is likely that a significant portion of the Company’s workforce will remain unionized for the foreseeable future. It is also possible that the portion of the Company’s workforce that is unionized may increase in the future. Contracts covering approximately 148 of the Company’s domestic employees expire in fiscal 2009, and the remainder thereafter. In addition, contracts covering most of the Company’s union employees in Europe and ROW expire on various dates through fiscal 2009. Although the Company believes that its relations with employees are generally good, if conflicts develop between the Company and its employees’ unions in connection with the renegotiation of these contracts or otherwise, work stoppages or other labor disputes could result. A work stoppage at one or more of the Company’s plants, or a material increase in its costs due to unionization activities, may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Work stoppages at the facilities of the Company’s customers or suppliers may also negatively affect the Company’s business. If any of the Company’s customers experience a material work stoppage, the customer may halt or limit the purchase of the Company’s products. This could require the Company to shut down or significantly reduce production at facilities relating to those products. Moreover, if any of the Company’s suppliers experience a work stoppage, the Company’s operations could be adversely affected if an alternative source of supply is not readily available. The Company’s substantial indebtedness could adversely affect its financial condition. The Company has a significant amount of indebtedness. As of March 31, 2008, the Company had total indebtedness, including capital leases, of approximately $716.2 million. The Company’s level of indebtedness could have significant consequences. For example, it could: • Limit the Company’s ability to borrow money to fund its working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and debt service requirements; • Limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and future business opportunities; • Make the Company more vulnerable to a downturn in its business or in the economy; • Place the Company at a disadvantage relative to some of its competitors, who may be less highly leveraged; and • Require a substantial portion of the Company’s cash flow from operations to be used for debt payments, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. One or a combination of these factors could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. Subject to restrictions in the indenture governing the Company’s senior secured notes and convertible notes and its senior secured credit facility, the Company may incur additional indebtedness, which could increase the risks associated with its already substantial indebtedness. Restrictive covenants limit the Company’s ability to operate its business and to pursue its business strategies, and its failure to comply with these covenants could result in an acceleration of its indebtedness. The Company’s senior secured credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) and the indenture governing its senior secured notes contain covenants that limit or restrict its ability to finance future operations or capital needs, to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to engage in other transactions or business activities that may be important to its growth strategy or otherwise important to the Company. The Credit Agreement and the indenture governing the Company’s senior secured notes limit or restrict, among other things, the Company’s ability and the ability of its subsidiaries to: • Incur additional indebtedness; • Pay dividends or make distributions on the Company’s capital stock or certain other restricted payments or investments; 17 Table of Contents • Purchase or redeem stock; • Issue stock of the Company’s subsidiaries; • Make investments and extend credit; • Engage in transactions with affiliates; • Transfer and sell assets; • Effect a consolidation or merger or sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets; and • Create liens on the Company’s assets to secure debt. In addition, the Credit Agreement requires the Company to repay outstanding borrowings with portions of the proceeds the Company receives from certain sales of property or assets and specified future debt offerings. The Company’s ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond its control. Any breach of the covenants in the Credit Agreement or the indenture governing its senior secured notes could cause a default under the Company’s Credit Agreement and other debt (including the notes), which would restrict the Company’s ability to borrow under its Credit Agreement, thereby significantly impacting the Company’s liquidity. If there were an event of default under any of the Company’s debt instruments that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the debt instrument to be due and payable immediately. The Company’s assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under its outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default. If, as or when required, the Company is unable to repay, refinance or restructure its indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, its senior secured credit facility, the lenders under its senior secured credit facility could institute foreclosure proceedings against the assets securing borrowings under the Credit Agreement. Holders of the Company’s common stock are subject to the risk of dilution of their investment as the result of the issuance of additional shares of common stock and warrants to purchase common stock to holders of pre-petition claims to the extent the reserve of common stock and warrants established to satisfy such claims is insufficient. On April 15, 2002, the “Petition Date”, Exide Technologies, together with certain of its subsidiaries (the “Debtors”), filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy laws (“Bankruptcy Code” or “Chapter 11”) in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (“Bankruptcy Court”). The Debtors continued to operate their businesses and manage their properties as debtors-in-possession throughout the course of the bankruptcy case. The Debtors, along with the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors, filed a Joint Plan of Reorganization (the “Plan”) with the Bankruptcy Court on February 27, 2004 and, on April 21, 2004, the Bankruptcy Court confirmed the Plan. Pursuant the Plan, the Company has established a reserve of common stock and warrants to purchase common stock for issuance to holders of unsecured pre-petition disputed claims. To the extent this reserve is insufficient to satisfy these disputed claims, the Company would be required to issue additional shares of common stock and warrants, which would result in dilution to holders of its common stock. Under the claims reconciliation and allowance process set forth in the Plan, the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors, in consultation with the Company, established a reserve to provide for a pro rata distribution of common stock and warrants to holders of disputed claims as they become allowed. As claims are evaluated and processed, the Company will object to some claims or portions thereof, and upward adjustments (to the extent stock and warrants not previously distributed remain) or downward adjustments to the reserve will be made pending or following adjudication of these objections. Predictions regarding the allowance and classification of claims are inherently difficult to make. With respect to environmental claims in particular, there is inherent difficulty in assessing the Company’s potential liability due to the large number of other potentially responsible parties. For example, a demand for the total cleanup costs of a landfill used by many entities may be asserted by the government using joint and several liability theories. Although the 18 Table of Contents Company believes that there is a reasonable basis in law to believe that the Company will ultimately be responsible for only its share of these remediation costs, there can be no assurance that the Company will prevail on these claims. In addition, the scope of remedial costs or other environmental injuries are highly variable, and estimating these costs involves complex legal, scientific and technical judgments. Many of the claimants who have filed disputed claims, particularly environmental, and personal injury claims produce little or no proof of fault on which the Company can assess its potential liability and either specify no determinate amount of damages or provide little or no basis for the alleged damages. In some cases the Company is still seeking additional information needed for claims assessment and information that is unknown to the Company at the current time may significantly affect its assessment regarding the adequacy of the reserve amounts in the future. As general unsecured claims have been allowed in the Bankruptcy Court, the Company has distributed approximately one share of common stock of the Company per $383.00 in allowed claim amount and approximately one warrant per $153.00 in allowed claim amount. These rates were established based upon the assumption that the new common stock and warrants allocated to holders of general unsecured claims on the effective date, including the reserve established for disputed claims, would be fully distributed so that the recovery rates for all allowed unsecured claims would comply with the Plan without the need for any redistribution or supplemental issuance of securities. If the amount of general unsecured claims that is eventually allowed exceeds the amount of claims anticipated in the setting of the reserve, additional new common stock and warrants will be issued for the excess claim amounts at the same rates as used for the other general unsecured claims. If this were to occur, additional new common stock would also be issued to the holders of pre-petition secured claims to maintain the ratio of their distribution in common stock at nine times the amount of common stock distributed for all unsecured claims. The Company’s ability to recognize the benefits of deferred tax assets is dependent on future cash flows and taxable income The Company recognizes the expected future tax benefit from deferred tax assets when the tax benefit is considered to be more likely than not of being realized. Otherwise, a valuation allowance is applied against deferred tax assets. Assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets requires management to make significant estimates related to expectations of future taxable income. Estimates of future taxable income are based on forecasted cash flows from operations and the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction. To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the Company to realize the deferred tax assets could be impacted. Additionally, future changes in tax laws could limit the Company’s ability to obtain the future tax benefits represented by its deferred tax assets. As of March 31, 2008, the Company’s current and long-term deferred tax assets were $36.8 million and $51.2 million, respectively. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISION OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 Except for historical information, this report may be deemed to contain “forward-looking” statements. The Company desires to avail itself of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and is including this cautionary statement for the express purpose of availing itself of the protection afforded by the Act. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to (a) projections of revenues, cost of raw materials, income or loss, earnings or loss per share, capital expenditures, growth prospects, dividends, the effect of currency translations, capital structure, and other financial items, (b) statements of plans and objectives of the Company or its management or Board of Directors, including the introduction of new products, or estimates or predictions of actions by customers, suppliers, competitors or regulating authorities, (c) statements of future economic performance, and (d) statements of assumptions, such as the prevailing weather conditions in the Company’s market areas, underlying other statements and statements about the Company or its business. 19 Table of Contents Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following general factors such as: (i) the Company’s ability to implement and fund based on current liquidity business strategies and restructuring plans, (ii) unseasonable weather (warm winters and cool summers) which adversely affects demand for automotive and some industrial batteries, (iii) the Company’s substantial debt and debt service requirements which may restrict the Company’s operational and financial flexibility, as well as imposing significant interest and financing costs, (iv) the litigation proceedings to which the Company is subject, the results of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its business, (v) the realization of the tax benefits of the Company’s net operating loss carry forwards, which is dependent upon future taxable income, (vi) the fact that lead, a major constituent in most of the Company’s products, experiences significant fluctuations in market price and is a hazardous material that may give rise to costly environmental and safety claims, (vii) competitiveness of the battery markets in the Americas and Europe, (viii) risks involved in foreign operations such as disruption of markets, changes in import and export laws, currency restrictions, currency exchange rate fluctuations and possible terrorist attacks against U.S. interests, (ix) general economic conditions, (x) the ability to acquire goods and services and/or fulfill labor needs at budgeted costs, (xi) the Company’s reliance on a single supplier for its polyethylene battery separators, (xii) the Company’s ability to successfully pass along increased material costs to its customers, and (xiii) the loss of one or more of the Company’s major customers for its industrial or transportation products. The Company cautions each reader to carefully consider those factors hereinabove set forth. Such factors have, in some instances, affected and in the future could affect the ability of the Company to achieve its projected results and may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed herein. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 20 Table of Contents 