ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results and financial condition, past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The Company has a history of significant losses. If we do not sustain profitability, our financial condition and stock price could suffer. The Company has a history of losses and may incur losses in the foreseeable future. We incurred net losses of $6,049,000, $223,000 and $3,004,000 for the fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. As of September 30, 2005, our accumulated deficit was $90,291,000. If revenues do not reach the levels the Company anticipates, or if operating expenses exceed the Company’s expectations, the Company may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the near future or at all. If the Company is unable to achieve and sustain profitability at satisfactory levels, its financial condition and stock price could be materially adversely affected. The Company will be controlled by Spescom Ltd. and its subsidiaries as long as they are entitled to a majority of the votes eligible to be cast in the election of directors. As of January 4, 2005, Spescom Ltd. (together with its subsidiaries), by virtue of its ownership of common stock and Series F Preferred Stock, was entitled to 27,408,249, or 56%, of the total number of votes eligible to be cast in the election of directors. Spescom Ltd. therefore currently has the ability to elect the Company’s entire board of directors. Moreover, even if the above-referenced percentage were to drop below 50%, it is likely that Spescom Ltd. would have sufficient votes to retain control of the Company. As a result, Spescom Ltd. will likely continue to control all matters affecting the Company, including, but not limited to: • the composition of the Company’s board of directors and, through it, any determination with respect to the Company’s business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers; 14 • the allocation of business opportunities that may be suitable for the Company and Spescom Ltd.; • any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations or extraordinary transactions; • the Company’s acquisition or disposition of assets; and • the Company’s financing. Spescom Ltd. is not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in us to a third party. Notwithstanding the foregoing discussion, if certain affiliates of M.A.G. Capital, LLC become entitled to elect a majority of the authorized directors, as discussed below, Spescom Ltd. would cease to control the Company. Spescom Ltd., however, would continue to exert significant influence over matters other than the election of directors for which shareholder approval is required under applicable law, such as certain types of mergers and other business combinations. One or more affiliates of M.A.G. Capital, LLC, as holders of Series H Convertible Preferred Stock, may become entitled to elect a majority of the Board of Directors if certain corporate transactions do not occur on or before April 30, 2006. Under the Certificate of Determination for the Series H Convertible Preferred Stock, if the Company has not entered into a binding agreement to consummate a consolidation, merger, or certain other corporate transactions meeting certain requirements on or before April 30, 2006, the holders of Series H Preferred Stock may, by a two-thirds vote not later than June 30, 2006, elect to have all of the outstanding Series H Preferred Stock redeemed by the Company at an amount equal to $1,000 per share plus all declared but unpaid dividends. If such election is made and the Company does not have sufficient funds to carry out the redemption, the holders of Series H Preferred Stock as a class will be entitled to elect a majority of the authorized directors of the Company. There are currently 1,950 shares of Series H Preferred Stock outstanding, all held by Monarch Pointe Fund, Ltd. (“Monarch”), an affiliate of M.A.G. Capital, LLC (“MAG”). Under the terms of the Series H Preferred Stock private placement, the Company has agreed to sell 500 additional shares of Series H Preferred Stock to one or more of Monarch, Mercator Momentum Fund, L.P., or Momentum Fund III, L.P., each an affiliate of MAG, at a second closing to occur on or before January 20, 2006. In the event that a corporate transaction of the variety discussed in the preceding paragraph does not occur on or before April 30, 2006 and an election for redemption by the holders of Series H Preferred Stock is made, the redemption price is anticipated to be $1,950,000 or $2,450,000, depending on whether an additional 500 shares have been issued in the prospective second closing, plus all declared but unpaid dividends. In the event of such an election, unless the Company is able to raise additional debt or equity funds, the Company anticipates that it would not have sufficient funds to carry out the redemption. If the Company were able to raise additional funds, it is likely that existing shareholders would suffer additional substantial dilution. If the election to redeem the Series H Preferred Stock is made and the Company is unable to pay the redemption price, those MAG affiliates holding Series H Preferred Stock would become entitled to elect a majority of the authorized directors of the Company. In this event, those entities, through their majority control of the Board of Directors, would be able to control or (with respect to matters requiring shareholder approval) exert significant influence over all matters affecting the Company, including: • any determination with respect to the Company’s business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers; • the allocation of business opportunities that may be suitable for the Company and Spescom Ltd.; • any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations or extraordinary transactions; • the Company’s acquisition or disposition of assets; and • the Company’s financing. The Company has borrowed funds from Spescom Ltd., which debts are secured by all of the Company’s assets, and the Company may become insolvent if repayment of such debt is due prior to the Company’s ability to obtain funds to repay such debt or if the Company fails to restructure such debt. At September 30, 2005, the Company owed, including accrued but unpaid interest, an aggregate amount of $615,000 to Spescom Ltd. Interest accrues on such debt at an annual interest rate of 10%, and such debt is secured by a security interest in favor of Spescom Ltd. on all of the Company’s assets. Spescom Ltd. has agreed to extend the maturity date on such debt until October 1, 2006. In addition the Company owes Spescom Ltd. $302,000 relating to certain marketing research and analysis that Spescom Ltd. performed on behalf of the Company. The obligation accrues interest at 11% per annum. Spescom Ltd. has agreed to forego payment on the $302,000 until October 1, 2006. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow from its operations, secure funds from the capital markets or lenders or restructure its debt to Spescom Ltd., the Company will become insolvent. 15 The Company may not be able to rely on Spescom Ltd. to fund its future capital requirements, and financing from other sources may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Although the Company in the past has received funding from Spescom Ltd. for working capital purposes, such additional financing if necessary is not assured. The Company may need financing in the future and such financing from Spescom Ltd. or other sources may not be available on favorable terms or at all. In addition, if Spescom Ltd. is otherwise able to provide additional loans on terms acceptable to the Company, the funding of such loans may be delayed or prevented by currency exchange regulations of the Republic of South Africa, under which Spescom Ltd. is required to apply for and obtain the approval of the South African Reserve Bank before providing any funds to the Company. The Company believes its capital requirements will vary greatly from quarter to quarter, depending on, among other things, capital expenditures, fluctuations in its operating results, financing activities, and investments and third party products and receivables management. The Company’s future liquidity will depend on its ability to generate new system sales of its eB product suite in the near term, which cannot be assured. Failure to generate sufficient system sales to meet the Company’s cash flow needs can be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. Management believes that the Company’s current cash and receivables, as well as additional cash that may be generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet its short-term needs for working capital. However, the Company may not be able to obtain sufficient orders to enable the Company to continue on a cash flow break-even level, which would be necessary to continue operations in the absence of further financing. Future equity financings would be dilutive to the existing holders of the Company’s common stock. Future debt financings could involve restrictive covenants. The Company is dependent on sales to a relatively small number of new customers each quarter, so any failure to close a sale to any customer could have a material adverse effect on its quarterly operating results. A small number of customers has typically accounted, and will continue in the future to account, for a large percentage of the Company’s annual revenues. Network Rail accounted 16% of the Company’s revenues in fiscal 2005. Network Rail and Constellation Energy Group accounted for 23% and 15%, respectively of revenues for fiscal 2004 while Network Rail accounted for 19% of revenue for fiscal 2003. Because of the Company’s reliance on sales to relatively few customers, the loss of any sale could have a material adverse effect on the results of its operations on any given quarter. Additionally, a significant portion of the Company’s revenues has historically been, and is expected in the future to be, derived from the sale of systems to new customers. The Company generally incurs significant marketing and sales expense prior to entering into a contract with a new customer that generates revenues. The length of time it takes to establish a new customer relationship typically ranges from 6 to 12 months. As such, the Company may incur significant expenses associated with its sales efforts directed to prospective customers in any particular period before any associated revenues stream begins. If the Company is not successful at obtaining significant new customers or if a small number of customers cancel or delay their orders for its products, then its business and its prospects could be harmed which may cause the price of the Company’s common stock to decline. The Company’s operating results are difficult to predict and fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter and year to year, which may increase the difficulty of financial planning and forecasting and may result in declines in the Company’s stock price. The Company’s future operating results may vary from the Company’s past operating results, are difficult to predict and may vary from year to year due to a number of factors. Many of these factors are beyond the Company’s control. These factors include: • the potential delay in recognizing revenue from license transactions due to revenue recognition rules which the Company must follow; • the tendency to realize a substantial amount of revenue in the last weeks, or even days, of each quarter due to the tendency of some of the Company’s customers to wait until quarter or year end in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms; • customer decisions to delay implementation of the Company’s products; • the size and complexity of the Company’s license transactions; • any seasonality of technology purchases; • demand for the Company’s products, which can fluctuate significantly; • the timing of new product introductions and product enhancements by both the Company and its competitors; • changes in the Company’s pricing policy; 16 • the publication of opinions concerning us, the Company’s products or technology by industry analysts; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; and • domestic and international economic and political conditions. One or more of these factors may cause the Company’s operating expenses to be disproportionately high or the Company’s gross revenues to be disproportionately low during any given period, which could cause the Company’s net revenue and operating results to fluctuate significantly. The Company’s operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past. You should not rely on the Company’s annual operating results to predict its future results because of the significant fluctuations to which the Company’s results are subject. As a result of these and other factors, operating results for any fiscal year are subject to significant variation, and the Company believes that period-to-period comparisons of its results of operations are not necessarily meaningful in terms of their relation to future performance. You should not rely upon these comparisons as indications of future performance. It is likely that the Company’s future quarterly and annual operating results from time to time will not meet the expectations of public market analysts or investors, which could cause a drop in the price of its common stock. The Company’s market is subject to rapid technological change and if the Company fails to continually enhance its products and services in a timely manner, its revenue and business would be harmed. The Company must continue to enhance and improve the performance, functionality and reliability of its products and services in a timely manner. The software industry is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in user requirements and preferences, frequent new product and services introductions embodying new technologies, and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render the Company’s products and services obsolete. The Company has experienced product development delays in the past, and may experience delays in the future. The Company’s failure to continually enhance its products and services in a timely manner would adversely impact its business and prospects. In the past, the Company has also discovered that some of its customers desire additional performance and functionality not currently offered by its products. The Company’s success will depend, in part, on its ability to internally develop and license leading technologies to enhance its existing products and services, to develop new products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of its customers, and to respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The Company’s product development efforts with respect to its eB product suite are expected to continue to require substantial investments by the Company, and the Company may not have sufficient resources to make the necessary investments. If the Company is unable to adapt its products and services to changing market conditions, customer requirements or emerging industry standards, it may not be able to maintain or increase its revenue and expand its business. The Company’s lack of product diversification means that any decline in price or demand for its products and services would seriously harm its business. The eB product suite and related services have accounted for substantially all of the Company’s revenue and this situation is expected to continue for the foreseeable future. Consequently, a decline in the price of, or demand for, the eB product suite or related services, or their failure to achieve broad market acceptance, would seriously harm the Company’s business. Significant unauthorized use of the Company’s products would result in material loss of potential revenues and the Company’s pursuit of protection for its intellectual property rights could result in substantial costs to it. The Company’s software is licensed to customers under license agreements containing provisions prohibiting the unauthorized use, copying and transfer of the licensed program. Policing unauthorized use of the Company’s products is difficult and, while the Company is unable to determine the extent to which piracy of its software products exists, any significant piracy of its products could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect the Company’s proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States and the Company’s means of protecting its proprietary rights may not be adequate. The Company relies on third party software products incorporated in its products. Any loss of use to such third party software could result in delays in the Company’s product shipments. The Company relies on certain software that it licenses from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used in the Company’s products to perform key functions. There can be no assurances that the developers of such software will remain in business, that they will continue to support their products, that their products will otherwise continue to be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms or that their products are free from bugs or defects. The loss of or inability to maintain any of these software licenses could result in delays or reductions in product shipments until equivalent software can be developed, identified, licensed and integrated, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. 17 If third parties claim that the Company infringes on their patents, trademarks, or other intellectual property rights, it may result in costly litigation or require the Company to make royalty payments. The Company is not aware that any of its software products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance, however, that third parties will not claim infringement by the Company with respect to its current or future products. The Company expects that software product developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays, consume significant management time or require the Company to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to the Company or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company may face product liability claims from its customers. The Company’s license agreements with its customers usually contain provisions designed to limit its exposure to potential product liability claims. It is possible, however, that the limitation of liability provisions contained in the Company’s license agreements may not be effective under the laws of some jurisdictions. A successful product liability claim brought against the Company could result in payment by the Company of substantial damages, which would harm its business, operating results and financial condition and cause the price of its common stock to fall. If the Company loses key personnel, or is unable to attract and retain additional key personnel, the Company may not be able to successfully grow and manage its business. The Company believes that its future success will depend upon its ability to attract and retain its key technical and management personnel. These employees are not subject to employment contracts. The Company may not be successful in retaining its key employees in the future or in attracting and assimilating replacement or additional key personnel. Any failure in retaining and attracting management personnel may impair its ability to rapidly grow and manage its business. The Company faces intense competition from several competitors and may be unable to compete successfully. The market for the Company’s products is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. The Company currently encounters competition from a number of public and private companies, including Electronic Document Management System/Enterprise Content Management vendors such as EMC (formerly Documentum), FileNet, OpenText, Sword and Hummingbird; Enterprise Asset Management vendors such as Indus and MRO/Maximo; and to a lesser extent Product Data Management/Product Lifecycle Management vendors such as Matrix I, PTC and EDS. Many of these direct competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than the Company. The Company also expects that direct competition will increase as a result of recent consolidation in the software industry. The Company also faces indirect competition from systems integrators and VARs. The Company relies on a number of systems consulting and systems integration firms for implementation and other customer support services, as well as for recommendation of its products to potential purchasers. Although the Company seeks to maintain close relationships with these service providers, many of these third parties have similar, and often more established, relationships with the Company’s principal competitors. If the Company were unable to develop and retain effective, long-term relationships with these third parties, the Company’s competitive position would be materially and adversely affected. Further, these third parties may market software products in competition with the Company in the future and may otherwise reduce or discontinue their relationship with, or support of, the Company and its products. In addition, database vendors, such as Oracle, IBM and Microsoft are potential competitors in the future if they acquire competitive technology or otherwise expand their current product offerings. Like the Company’s current competitors, these companies have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and name recognition and a larger installed base of customers than the Company. Several of these companies, including Oracle, Microsoft, IBM and others, have well-established relationships with the Company’s current and potential customers and strategic partners, as well as extensive resources and knowledge of the enterprise software industry that may enable them to offer a single-vendor solution more easily than the Company can. In addition, the Company’s competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than the Company can. If the Company cannot respond to its competitors adequately and in a timely manner, then it may be required to reduce prices for its products and could suffer reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could harm its business, prospects, financial condition and operating results, causing the price of its common stock to decline. In addition, the Company’s past financial losses and customer uncertainty regarding the Company’s financial condition are likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to sell its products in the future against competitors. 18 The Company’s common stock is deemed to be “penny stock,” which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares due to suitability requirements. The Company’s common stock is deemed to be “penny stock” as that term is defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These requirements may reduce the potential market for the Company’s common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult for investors in the Company’s common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. This could cause the Company’s stock price to decline. Penny stock is stock: • With a price of less than $5.00 per share; • That is not traded on a “recognized” national exchange; • Whose prices are not quoted on the NASDAQ automated quotation system (NASDAQ listed stock must still have a price of not less than $5.00 per share); or • In issuers with net tangible assets less than or equal to $2.0 million (if the issuer has been in continuous operation for at least three years) or $5.0 million (if in continuous operation for less than three years), or with average revenues of less than $6.0 million for the last three years. Broker/dealers dealing in penny stocks are required to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stock. Moreover, broker/dealers are required to determine whether an investment in a penny stock is a suitable investment for a prospective investor. The Company’s common stock trades sporadically; the market price of the Company’s common stock may be volatile. The Company’s common stock currently trades sporadically on the OTC Bulletin Board. The market for the Company’s common stock may continue to be an inactive market, and the market price of the Company’s common stock may experience significant volatility. The Company’s quarterly results, failure to meet analysts’ expectations, announcements by the Company or its competitors regarding acquisitions or dispositions, loss of existing customers, new industry standards or technology, changes in general conditions in the economy, and general market conditions could cause the market price of the common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the trading prices of equity securities of many technology companies. These price and volume fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Conversion of the Company’s preferred stock will result in significant dilution to existing shareholders. In October 2005 the Company completed the first closing of a private placement to issue, in addition to certain warrants, a new Series H Convertible Preferred Stock which upon conversion into common stock will result in substantial dilution to common shareholders. Additional Series H Preferred Stock and warrants may be issued at second closing which is anticipated to occur in January 2006. The number of shares of the Company’s common stock into which shares of Series H Preferred Stock may be converted varies based on a volume-weighted measure of the market price of the common stock and based on the trailing revenues of the last four fiscal quarters reported by the Company. The shares of preferred stock issued at the first closing and the shares subject to issuance at the second closing are convertible into no fewer than 4,875,000 and 1,250,000 common shares, respectively and into no more than 26,896,552 and 6,896,552 common shares, respectively if the Company’s trailing revenues of the last four fiscal quarters were to be less than $5 million. On September 30, 2003, the Company issued 5,291 shares of Series F Preferred Stock with a stated value of $1,000 per share in consideration of the cancellation of $5,291,000 of its debt owed to Spescom Ltd. and its subsidiary. The Series F Preferred Stock is convertible into the Company’s common stock at a stated conversion price of $0.45 per share, subject to certain adjustments to prevent dilution, representing a total of 11,757,778 shares of the Company’s common stock. Such conversion may occur at the option of the holder until September 30, 2008. On that date, any outstanding Series F Preferred Stock not previously converted will be converted automatically. Conversion of the Series F Preferred Stock will result in substantial dilution to common shareholders. Future sales of common stock by the Company’s shareholders, including investors in future offerings and Spescom Ltd., could adversely affect the Company’s stock price. As part of the Series H Convertible Preferred Stock private placement completed in October 2005, the Company agreed to file a registration statement for the common stock of the Company issuable upon conversion of such preferred stock. Any sales of these shares of common stock or shares of the Company’s common stock issued in any future offering could cause a decline in the price of the Company’s stock. In addition, Spescom Ltd. holds 27,408,249 shares of the Company’s common stock on a fully diluted basis as of September 30, 2005, and if it sells its shares of the Company from time to time in the future, the Company’s stock price may be adversely affected. Spescom Ltd. also has certain demand and piggyback registration rights relating to 11,757,778 of theses shares. The exercise of outstanding options and warrants would result in dilution of the Company’s stock. 19 As of September 30, 2005, the Company had outstanding stock options to purchase approximately 4,856,000 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase approximately 5,492,502 shares of common stock. If all or a significant number of the options are exercised, shareholders could suffer significant dilution. The Company is subject to significant foreign currency fluctuations which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results. Changes in foreign currency rates, the condition of local economies, and the general volatility of software markets may result in a higher or lower proportion of foreign revenues in the future. Although the Company’s operating and pricing strategies take into account changes in exchange rates over time, future fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Beginning in fiscal 2006 under SFAS 123R the Company will begin recording compensation expense in connection with the incentive stock options provided to its employees and directors which may have a significant negative impact on future operating results. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123R which requires companies to measure all employee stock-based compensation awards using a fair value method and record such expense in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. The impact of adoption of SFAS 123R cannot be predicted at this time because it will depend on, among other things, levels of share-based payments granted in the future, the market value of the Company’s common stock as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, the Company’s stock price, volatility, and employee stock option exercise behaviors and the related tax impact. However, the expense recorded in future periods may significantly impact future earnings of the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 