Risk Factors” and the following: · significantly increased competition from banking and non-banking institutions; · inflation and changes in the interest rate environment that reduce our margins or reduce the fair value of financial instruments; · general political, industry and economic conditions, either domestically or internationally, that are different than expected; · adverse developments concerning credit quality in our business segments that may result in increases in our provision for loan losses, nonperforming assets, potential problem loans, net charge-offs and reserve for credit losses could cause earnings to decline; · instruments, systems and strategies that are used to hedge or otherwise manage our exposure to various types of market, credit, operational and enterprise-wide risk could be less effective than anticipated, and we may not be able to effectively mitigate risk exposures in particular market environments or against particular types of risk; · customer borrowing, repayment, investment and deposit practices generally may be less favorable than anticipated; · the mix of interest rates and maturities of our interest earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities (primarily loans and deposits) may be less favorable than expected; · interest rate margin compression may be greater than expected; · adverse changes in the securities markets; · legislative or regulatory changes or actions that adversely affect our business; · the ability to enter new markets successfully and capitalize on growth opportunities; · effects of and changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws, including interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve Board; · timely development of and acceptance of new products and services; · changes in consumer spending, borrowing and savings habits; · effect of changes in accounting policies and practices, as may be adopted by the bank regulatory agencies, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies; · changes in our organization, compensation and benefit plans; · costs and effects of new litigation or changes in existing litigation and unexpected or adverse outcomes in such litigation; and · our success in managing the foregoing factors and the risks associated with or inherent in the foregoing. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. 9 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in Republic Bancorp Inc. common stock involves risk. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including those listed under “Forward-Looking Statements” on page 9 and the following: · changes in securities analysts’ estimates of financial performance · volatility of stock market prices and volumes · rumors or erroneous information · changes in market valuations of similar companies · changes in interest rates · new developments in the banking industry · variations in quarterly or annual operating results · new litigation or changes in existing litigation · regulatory actions · changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies. · If the Company does not adjust to changes in the financial services industry, its financial performance may suffer. The Company’s ability to maintain its history of strong financial performance and return on investment to shareholders will depend in part on its ability to expand its customer base and increase the financial services provided to its customers. In addition to other banks, competitors include thrifts, finance companies, credit unions and mortgage bankers. The increasingly competitive environment is, in part, a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. · Future governmental regulation and legislation could limit growth. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern nearly every aspect of its operations. Changes to these laws could affect the Company’s ability to deliver or expand its services and diminish the value of its business. · Changes in interest rates could reduce income and cash flow. The Company’s income and cash flow depends to a great extent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investment securities, and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. Interest rates are beyond the Company’s control, and they fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits. · Additional risks and uncertainties could have a negative effect on financial performance. Additional factors could have a negative effect on the financial performance of Republic Bancorp Inc. and its common stock price. Some of these factors are general economic and financial market conditions, competition, continuing consolidation in the financial services industry, new litigation or changes in existing litigation, regulatory actions and losses. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 