D. Risk Factors Electrolux markets are highly competitive and subject to price pressure The markets for Electrolux products are highly competitive and there is considerable pressure to reduce prices, especially when faced with an economic downturn and possible reductions in consumer demand. Electrolux faces strong competitors, who may prove to have greater resources in a given business area, and the likely emergence of new competitors, particularly from Asia and Eastern Europe. Some industries in which Electrolux operates are undergoing consolidation, which may result in stronger competitors and a change in Electrolux relative market position. In 2006, price competition was most apparent in the European market, but it was also present in North America. In response to an increasingly competitive environment, Electrolux and other manufacturers may be forced to increase efficiency by further reducing costs along the value chain, including their suppliers. The development of alternative distribution channels, such as the Internet, could also contribute to further price pressure within Electrolux markets. There can be no assurances that Electrolux will be able to adapt to these changes and increase or maintain its market share. Electrolux business is affected by global economic conditions Current conditions in many of the economies in which Electrolux operates and the global economy remain very uncertain. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the global and regional economic development for the foreseeable future. In addition, the business environment and the economic condition of Electrolux markets are influenced by political uncertainties, including the current political situation in the Middle East. A lengthy recession or sustained loss of consumer confidence in the markets in which Electrolux operates could trigger a significant industry-wide decline in sales and could also lead to slower economic growth and a corresponding significant reduction in demand. Electrolux generates a substantial portion of its net sales from North America and Europe. Lately, North America has demonstrated a slow-down in its economy while economic conditions in Europe have experienced an upturn. These global and regional conditions could have an adverse impact on the operations of Electrolux, with a resulting material adverse effect on results of operations and financial condition. Electrolux is subject to risks relating to the relocation of manufacturing capacity As part of its strategy of continued reduction of costs and rationalization of its production activities, Electrolux has in the past, and will in the future, relocate some of its manufacturing capacity to low cost countries. Electrolux has announced restructuring measures of approximately SEK 8 billion for the years 2004-2009, of which slightly more than SEK 5 billion had been charged at year-end 2006. The restructuring measures encompass further relocation of some of its manufacturing capacity. The transfer of production from one facility to another is a costly and complex process, and presents the possibility of additional disruptions and delays during the transition period. In addition, during relocation Electrolux will be dependent on cost-efficient deliveries of components and half-finished goods from suppliers. Electrolux might not be able to successfully transition production to different facilities. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of any of its manufacturing facilities or any unforeseen delay in shifting manufacturing operations to new facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties or delays in regulatory approvals, could result in delays in shipments of products to Electrolux customers, increased costs and reduced revenues. Consolidation of retail chains has resulted in increased dependence on a number of large customers Due to the ongoing consolidation of retail chains, major customers account for a large and increasing part of Electrolux sales, and give retailers a stronger negotiating position. This trend towards consolidation has resulted in greater commercial and credit exposures. If Electrolux were to experience a material reduction in orders or become unable to collect fully its accounts receivable from a major customer, its net sales and financial results would suffer. Electrolux operating results may be affected by seasonality Demand for certain of Electrolux products, and consequently Group income, is affected by seasonality. For example, sales of relatively more profitable cookers are higher towards the end of the year. Sales of less profitable products such as refrigerators are usually the highest in the middle of the year. Electrolux expects this seasonality to continue in the future. 11 Electrolux future success depends on its ability to develop new and innovative products Product innovation and development are critical factors in improving margins and enabling net sales growth in all of Electrolux product lines. To meet Electrolux customers’ needs in these businesses, Electrolux must continuously design new, and update existing, products and services and invest in and develop new technologies. Product development is also driven by criteria for better environmental performance and lower cost of use. Introducing new products requires significant management time and a high level of financial and other commitments to research and development, which may not result in success. During 2006, Electrolux invested SEK 1,832 (1,743) million in research and development in continuing operations, corresponding to 1.8 (1.7) percent of net sales. R&D projects during the year mainly referred to new products and design projects within appliances including development of new platforms. Electrolux sales and net income may suffer if investments are made in technologies that do not function as expected or are not accepted in the marketplace. Electrolux may experience difficulties relating to business acquisitions and dispositions Electrolux has in the past, and may in the future, increase significant market positions in its product areas through organic growth and acquisitions and by improving operational efficiencies. Expansion through acquisitions is inherently risky due to the difficulties of integrating people, operations, technologies and products. Electrolux may incur significant acquisition, administrative and other costs in connection with any such transactions, including costs related to integration of acquired or restructured businesses. There can be no assurances that Electrolux will be able to successfully integrate any businesses it acquires into existing operations or that they will perform according to expectations once integrated. Similarly, dispositions of certain non-core assets may prove more costly than anticipated and may affect its net sales and results of operations. Electrolux may not be able to successfully implement planned cost-reduction measures and generate the expected cost-savings Between 2002 and 2006, as well as in earlier years, Electrolux implemented restructuring programs in an effort to improve operating efficiencies and the Group’s profitability. These restructuring measures included the divestitures of unprofitable non-core operations, layoffs of employees, consolidation of manufacturing operations, relocation of the Group’s production from high-cost countries to those with lower cost levels and other cost-cutting measures. Electrolux has also put substantial effort into driving down costs and complexity throughout the supply chain by improving integration of the supply chain and demand flow management. There can be no assurances that these measures of approximately SEK 8 billion in respect of the years 2004-2009, of which slightly more than SEK 5 billion had been charged at year-end 2006, will generate the level of cost savings that Electrolux has estimated going forward. Electrolux is dependent on third-party suppliers to deliver key components and materials for its products Electrolux manufacturing process depends on the availability and timely supply of components and raw materials, generally from third-party suppliers. While supply problems can affect the performance of most of Electrolux business sectors, Electrolux is particularly sensitive to supply problems related to electronic components, compressors, steel, plastics, aluminium and copper. Electrolux works closely with its suppliers to avoid supply-related problems and is increasing its supply of sourced finished products, but there can be no assurances that it will not experience problems in the future. Such problems could have material adverse effects on the business, results of operations or financial condition of Electrolux. In addition, unanticipated increases in the price of components or raw materials due to market shortages could also adversely affect the financial results of Electrolux businesses. Electrolux is subject to risks related to changes in commodity prices Electrolux is subject to risks related to changes in commodity prices as the ability to recover increased costs through higher pricing may be limited by the competitive environment in which Electrolux operates. In 2006, Electrolux purchased raw materials, both directly and through sourced components, for a value of SEK 23 billion. The recent development in many commodity markets has resulted in higher prices, particularly for steel, plastics, copper and aluminium. For example, in 2006 the costs of raw materials rose by a total of approximately SEK 900 million. Further increases in raw material prices may continue to have a negative effect on the Group’s operating results in 2007. Electrolux commodity risk is mainly hedged through bilateral contracts with suppliers. There can be no assurances that this hedging activity will be effective in reducing costs 12 in the Group’s results. For more details regarding commodity price risks, please see “Item 11–Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.” Electrolux is exposed to foreign exchange risks and interest rate risk Electrolux operates in approximately 60 countries around the world and as a result is subject to the risks associated with cross-border transactions. In particular, Electrolux is exposed to foreign currency exchange-rate risks and risks relating to delayed payments from customers in certain countries or difficulties in the collection of receivables generally. Electrolux is also subject to risks arising from translation of balance sheets and income statements of foreign subsidiaries to Swedish kronor as well as through export of products and sales outside the country of manufacture, i.e., transaction exposure. Translation exposure is related mainly to EUR and USD. Transaction exposure is greatest in EUR, USD, GBP and HUF. While Electrolux geographically widespread production and its hedging transactions reduce the effects of changes in exchange rates, there can be no assurances that these measures will be sufficient. In addition, Electrolux holds assets and liabilities to manage the liquidity and cash needs of its day-to-day operations. These interest-rate sensitive assets and liabilities are subject to interest rate risk. While these interest-rate exposures are minimized to some extent by the use of derivative financial instruments, there can be no assurances that these hedging activities will be effective or sufficient. Changes in exchange rates also affect Group equity. The difference between assets and liabilities in foreign countries is subject to these changes and comprises a net foreign investment. At year-end 2006, the largest foreign net assets were in USD, EUR and HUF. For more details regarding currency risks and interest rate risks, please see “Item 11–Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.” Electrolux is subject to regulatory risks associated with its international operations As a result of its worldwide operations, Electrolux is subject to a wide variety of complex laws, regulations and controls, and various non-binding treaties and guidelines, such as those related to employee safety, employee relations, product safety and exchange controls. Electrolux expects that sales to, as well as manufacturing in, and sourcing from, emerging markets, particularly China, Southeast Asia, Eastern Europe and Mexico, will continue to be an increasing portion of its total operations. Changes in regulatory requirements, economic and political instability, tariffs and other trade barriers and price or exchange controls could limit its operations in these countries and make the repatriation of profits difficult. In addition, the uncertainty of the legal environment in certain of the countries in which it operates could limit Electrolux ability to effectively enforce its rights in those markets. Electrolux products are also affected by environmental legislation in various markets, which principally involves limits for energy consumption (which relate to certain of its white goods products) as well as the obligation to recycle waste of electrical products. Electrolux is subject to certain environmental risks Electrolux operations are subject to numerous European Union, or EU, national and local environmental, health and safety directives, laws and regulations, including those pertaining to the storage, handling, treatment, transportation and disposal of hazardous and toxic materials, the construction and operation of its plants and standards relating to the discharge of pollutants to air, soil and water. Although Electrolux believes its operations are in substantial compliance with presently applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, violations of such laws and regulations have occurred from time to time and may occur in the future. In addition, risks of substantial costs and liabilities, including for the investigation and remediation of past or present contamination, are inherent in Electrolux ongoing operations and its ownership or occupation of industrial properties, and may arise specifically from its planned closure of certain of its manufacturing plants. Other developments, such as increased requirements under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, increasingly strict enforcement of them by governmental authorities, and claims for damage to property or injury to persons resulting from environmental, health or safety impacts of Electrolux operations or past contamination, could prevent or restrict its operations, result in the imposition of fines, penalties or liens, or give rise to civil or criminal liability. 13 Electrolux maintains liability insurance at levels that management believes are appropriate and in accordance with industry practice. In addition, Electrolux maintains provisions on its balance sheet for certain environmental remediation matters. There can be no assurances, however, that (i) Electrolux will not incur environmental losses beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of any insurance or that any such losses would not have a material adverse effect on the results of its operations or financial condition, or (ii) Electrolux provisions for environmental remediation will be sufficient to cover the ultimate loss or expenditure. Compliance with EU directives regulating environmental impacts associated with electrical and electronic equipment may be costly The EU has adopted directives specifically regulating environmental impacts associated with electrical and electronic equipment, and compliance with these directives is being phased in. The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or WEEE, directive imposes responsibility on manufacturers and importers of electrical and electronic equipment for the cost of recycling, treatment and disposal of such equipment after its useful life. Based on Electrolux present working assumptions, its estimate of the annual cost to Electrolux when the directive is fully implemented in 2008 are SEK 600 million. These estimates remain highly uncertain as, among other things, the recycling ratio and actual costs are not yet fully known in all relevant jurisdictions. Electrolux has compensated for a large share of the cost by visibly including a surcharge in the price of the products concerned. In most European countries a surcharge is permissible until 2011 for small appliances and until 2013 for large appliances. Surcharges will not be permitted after these dates. Compliance with the WEEE directive could have a material adverse effect on Electrolux income, financial position and cash flow. For more details regarding the WEEE Directive, please see “Item 4.B–Business Overview–Environmental and Other Governmental Regulation–Recent Environmental Developments.” Lawsuits in the United States claiming asbestos-related personal injuries are pending against the Electrolux Group Litigation and claims relating to asbestos are pending against the Group in the United States. Almost all of the cases relate to externally supplied components used in industrial products manufactured by discontinued operations of Electrolux prior to the early 1970s. Many of the cases involve multiple plaintiffs who have made identical allegations against many other defendants who are not part of the Electrolux Group. As of December 31, 2006, there were 1,688 (1,082) lawsuits pending against Electrolux entities representing approximately 7,700 (approximately 8,400) plaintiffs. During 2006, 986 new cases with approximately 2,000 plaintiffs were resolved. Approximately 5,650 of the plaintiffs relate to cases pending in the State of Mississippi. Electrolux believes its predecessor companies may have had insurance coverage applicable to some of the cases during some of the relevant years. Electrolux is currently in discussions with those insurance carriers. Additional lawsuits may be filed against Electrolux in the future. It is not possible to predict either the number of future claims or the number of plaintiffs that any future claims may represent. In addition, the outcome of asbestos claims is inherently uncertain and always difficult to predict and Electrolux cannot provide any assurances that the resolution of these types of claims will not have a material adverse effect on its business or results of operations in the future. Electrolux may incur higher than expected warranty expenses Electrolux value chain comprises all the steps in its operations, from research and development, through production, marketing and sales. Operational failures in its value chain processes could result in quality problems or potential product, labor safety, regulatory or environmental risks. Such risks are particularly present in relation to Electrolux production facilities which are located all over the world and have a high degree of organizational and technological complexity. Unforeseen product quality problems in the development and production of new and existing products could result in loss of market share and higher warranty expense, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Electrolux results of operations and financial condition. 14 Electrolux may be subject to significant product recalls or product liability actions that could adversely affect its business, results of operations or financial condition Under laws in many countries regulating consumer products, Electrolux may be forced to recall or repurchase some of its products under certain circumstances, and more restrictive laws and regulations may be adopted in the future. For example, as a manufacturer and distributor of consumer products in the United States, Electrolux is subject to the U.S. Consumer Products Safety Act, which empowers the U.S. Consumer Products Safety Commission to exclude products from the U.S. market that are found to be unsafe or hazardous. Under certain circumstances, the U.S. Consumer Products Safety Commission could require Electrolux to repurchase or recall one or more of its products. Any repurchase or recall of products could be costly to Electrolux and could damage its reputation. If Electrolux was required to remove, or it voluntarily removed, its products from the market, Electrolux reputation could be tarnished and it might have large quantities of finished products that could not be sold. Accordingly, there can be no assurances that product recalls would not have a material adverse effect on Electrolux business, results of operations and financial condition. Electrolux also faces exposure to product liability claims in the event that one of its products is alleged to have resulted in property damage, bodily injury or other adverse effects. Electrolux has become implicated in certain lawsuits in the ordinary course of its business, including suits involving allegations of improper delivery of goods or services, product liability and product defects and quality problems. Electrolux is largely self-insured for product liability matters expected to occur in the normal course of business and funds these risks, for the most part, through wholly owned insurance subsidiaries. Electrolux accrues for such self-insured claims and litigation risks when it is probable that an obligation has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. In addition, for large catastrophic losses, Electrolux maintains excess product liability insurance with third-party carriers in amounts that it believes are reasonable. However, there can be no assurances that product liability claims will not have a material adverse effect on Electrolux business, results of operations or financial condition. Electrolux is subject to risks related to its insurance coverage Electrolux maintains third-party insurance coverage and self-insures through wholly owned insurance subsidiaries (captives) for a variety of exposures and risks, such as property damage, business interruption and product liability claims. However, while Electrolux believes it has adequate insurance coverage for all anticipated exposures in line with industry standards, there can be no assurances that (i) Electrolux will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, at all times in the future or that claims will not exceed, or fall outside of, its third-party or captive insurance coverage, or (ii) its provisions for uninsured or uncovered losses will be sufficient to cover its ultimate loss or expenditure. There can be no assurance that Electrolux spin-off of its Outdoor Products operations will not give rise to additional liabilities In June 2006, Electrolux completed the spin-off the Group’s Outdoor Products operations (“Outdoor Products”) as a separate unit. In order to govern the creation of Outdoor Products as a separate legal entity, as well as govern the relationship in certain aspects between Electrolux and Outdoor Products after the separation, Electrolux and Husqvarna AB (being the parent of the Outdoor Products group) and some of their respective subsidiaries entered into a Master Separation Agreement and related agreements (the “Separation Agreements”). Under the Separation Agreements, Electrolux has retained certain potential liabilities with respect to the spin-off and Outdoor Products. These potential liabilities include certain liabilities of the Outdoor Products business which cannot be transferred or which were considered too difficult to transfer. Losses pursuant to these liabilities are reimbursable pursuant to indemnity undertakings from Husqvarna. In the event that Husqvarna is unable to meet its indemnity obligations should they arise, Electrolux would not be reimbursed for the related loss, and this could have a material adverse effect on Electrolux results of operations and financial condition. For more information on the spin-off of Outdoor Products, please see “Item 5–Operating and Financial Review and Prospects–Significant Actions and Transactions affecting Results and Financial Information” and Notes 24 and 29 to the consolidated financial statements. 15 Electrolux is also exposed to tax risks in relation to the spin-off Electrolux has received a private letter ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) with regard to the distribution of the shares in Husqvarna and the U.S. corporate restructurings that preceded the distribution. The ruling confirms that these transactions will not entail any U.S. tax consequences for Electrolux, its U.S. subsidiaries or U.S. shareholders of Electrolux. In the event that any facts and circumstances upon which the IRS private ruling has been based is found to be incorrect or incomplete in a material respect or if the facts at the time of separation, or at any relevant point in time, are materially different from the facts upon which the ruling was based, Electrolux could not rely on the ruling. Additionally, future events that may or may not be within the control of Electrolux or Husqvarna, including purchases by third parties of Husqvarna stock or Electrolux stock, could cause the distribution of Husqvarna stock and the U.S. corporate restructurings that preceded the distribution not to qualify as tax-free to Electrolux and/or U.S. holders of Electrolux stock. An example of such event is if one or more persons were to acquire a 50 percent or greater interest in Husqvarna stock or Electrolux stock. Electrolux has – as one of the Separation Agreements – concluded a Tax Sharing and Indemnity Agreement with Husqvarna. Pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, Husqvarna and two of its U.S. subsidiaries have undertaken to indemnify Electrolux and its group companies for U.S. tax cost liabilities in certain circumstances. If the distribution of the shares in Husqvarna or the U.S. corporate restructurings that preceded the distribution would entail U.S. tax cost liabilities, and Husqvarna would not be obliged to indemnify such liabilities or would not be able to meet its indemnity undertakings, this could have a material adverse effect on Electrolux results of operations and financial condition. For more information on the spin-off of Outdoor Products, please see “Item 5–Operating and Financial Review and Prospects–Significant Actions and Transactions affecting Results and Financial Information” and Notes 24 and 29 to the consolidated financial statements. 16 