Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business operations and the implementation of our business strategy are subject to significant risks inherent in our business, including, without limitation, the risks and uncertainties described below. The occurrence of any one or more of the risks or uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, operations, industry, financial position and financial performance in the future. Because these forward-looking statements are based on estimates and assumptions that are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control or are subject to change, actual results could be materially different. Risks Related to Our Industry We may be negatively affected by trends in the family entertainment/dining industry and national, regional and local economic conditions. The family entertainment/dining industry is affected by national, regional and local economic conditions, demographic trends and consumer preferences. The performance of individual stores may be affected by factors such as changes in consumer disposable income, demographic trends, weather conditions, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing businesses. Dependence on frequent deliveries of fresh food products also subjects businesses such as ours to the risk that shortages or interruptions in food supplies caused by adverse weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients. In addition, factors such as inflation, increased food, labor and employee benefit costs, fluctuations in price of utilities, interest rates, consumer confidence, consumers’ disposable income and spending levels, energy prices, job growth, unemployment rates, insurance costs and the availability of experienced management and hourly employees may also adversely affect the restaurant industry in general and our stores in particular. The entertainment industry is affected by many factors, including changes in customer preferences and increases in the type and number of competing entertainment offerings. Operating costs may also be affected by further increases in the minimum hourly wage, unemployment tax rates, sales taxes and similar matters over which we have no control. Changes in consumers’ health, nutrition and dietary preferences could adversely affect our financial results. Our industry is affected by consumer preferences and perceptions. Changes in prevailing health or dietary preferences and perceptions may cause consumers to avoid certain products we offer in favor of alternative or healthier foods. If consumer eating habits change significantly and we are unable to respond with appropriate menu offerings, it could adversely affect our financial results. Risks Related to Our Company We may not be successful in the implementation of our business development strategies. Our continued growth depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to successfully implement our long-term growth strategies. Among such strategies, we plan to continue to open new stores in selected markets and for existing stores we plan to remodel and expand our facilities and upgrade the games, rides and entertainment. The opening and success of new Chuck E. Cheese’s stores is dependant on various factors, including the availability of suitable sites, the negotiation of acceptable lease terms for such locations, store sales cannibalization, the ability to meet construction schedules, our ability to manage such expansion and hire and train personnel to manage the new stores, as well as general economic and business conditions. Our ability to successfully open new stores or remodel, expand or upgrade the entertainment at existing stores will also depend upon the availability of sufficient capital for such purposes, including operating cash flow, our existing credit facility, future debt financings, future equity offerings or a combination thereof. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in opening and operating the number of anticipated new stores on a timely or profitable basis. There can be no assurance that we can continue to successfully remodel or expand our existing facilities or upgrade the games and entertainment. Our growth is also dependent on our ability to continually evolve and update our business model to anticipate and respond to changing customer needs and competitive conditions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully anticipate changes in competitive conditions or customer needs or that the market will accept our business model. 7 Table of Contents Part of our growth strategy depends on our ability to attract new franchisees to recently opened markets and the ability of these franchisees to open and operate new stores on a profitable basis. Delays or failures in opening new franchised stores could adversely affect our planned growth. Our new franchisees depend on the availability of financing to construct and open new stores. If these franchisees experience difficulty in obtaining adequate financing for these purposes, our growth strategy and franchise revenues may be adversely affected. We may be unsuccessful in opening and remodeling our stores. Our long-term growth is dependent on the success of strategic initiatives to increase the number of our stores and enhance the facilities of existing stores. We incur significant costs each time we open a new store and other expenses when we relocate or remodel existing stores. The expenses of opening, relocating or remodeling any of our stores may be higher than anticipated. If we are unable to open or are delayed in opening new stores, we may incur significant costs which may adversely affect our financial results. If we are unable to remodel or are delayed in remodeling stores, we may incur significant costs which may adversely affect our financial results. We are dependent on the service of certain key personnel. The success of our business will continue to be highly dependent upon the continued employment of Richard M. Frank, the Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, Michael H. Magusiak, the President of the Company, and other members of our senior management team. Although the Company has entered into employment agreements with each of Mr. Frank and Mr. Magusiak, the loss of the services of either of such individuals could have a material adverse effect upon our business and development. Our success will also depend upon our ability to retain and attract additional skilled management personnel to our senior management team and at our operational level. There can be no assurances that we will be able to retain the services of Messrs. Frank or Magusiak, senior members of our management team or the required operational support at the store level in the future. Our business is highly seasonal and quarterly results may fluctuate significantly as a result of this seasonality. We have experienced, and in the future could experience, quarterly variations in revenues and profitability as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control, including the timing and number of new store openings, the timing of capital investments in existing stores, the timing of school vacations and holidays, weather conditions and natural disasters. We typically experience lower revenues and profitability in the second and fourth quarters than in the first and third quarters. If revenues are below expectations in any given quarter, our operating results will likely be adversely affected for that quarter. We are subject to intense competition in both the restaurant and entertainment industries. We believe that our combined restaurant and entertainment center concept puts us in a niche which combines elements of both the restaurant and entertainment industries. As a result, the Company, to some degree, competes with entities in both industries. Although other restaurant chains presently utilize the concept of combined family entertainment-dining operations, we believe these competitors operate primarily on a local, regional or market-by-market basis. Within the traditional restaurant sector, we compete with other casual dining restaurants on a nationwide basis with respect to price, quality and speed of service, type and quality of food, personnel, the number and location of restaurants, attractiveness of facilities, effectiveness of advertising and marketing programs, and new product development. Such competitive market conditions, including the effectiveness of our advertising and promotion and the emergence of significant new competition, could adversely affect our operating results. Negative publicity concerning food quality, health and other issues could adversely affect our financial results. Food service businesses can be adversely affected by litigation and complaints from guests, consumer groups or government authorities resulting from food quality, illness, injury or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one store or a limited number of stores. Publicity concerning food-borne illnesses and injuries caused by food tampering may negatively affect our operations, reputation and brand. Such publicity may have a significant adverse impact on the financial results of the Company. We could incur (i) significant liabilities if a lawsuit or claim resulted in a judgment against us, or (ii) significant litigation costs, regardless of the result. We may experience an increase in food, labor and other costs. An increase in food, labor, utilities, insurance and/or other operating costs may adversely affect the financial results of the Company. Such an increase may adversely affect the Company directly or adversely affect our vendors, franchisees and others whose performance have a significant impact on our financial results. 8 Table of Contents Specifically, any increase in the prices for food commodities, including cheese, could adversely affect our financial results. The performance of our stores is also adversely affected by increases in the price of utilities on which the stores depend, such as natural gas, whether as a result of inflation, shortages or interruptions in supply, or otherwise. Our business also incurs significant costs for and including among other things, insurance, marketing, taxes, real estate, borrowing and litigation, all of which could increase due to inflation, rising interest rates, changes in laws, competition, or other events beyond our control. In addition, a number of our employees are subject to various minimum wage requirements. Several states and cities in which we operate stores have established a minimum wage higher than the federally mandated minimum wage. There may be similar increases implemented in other jurisdictions in which we operate or seek to operate. These minimum wage increases may have an adverse effect on our financial results. We are subject to risks from disruption of our commodity distribution system Any disruption in our commodity distribution system could adversely affect our financial results. We use a single vendor to distribute most of the products and supplies used in our stores. Any failure by this vendor to adequately distribute products or supplies to our stores could increase our costs and have a material adverse affect on our financial results. Our stores may be adversely affected by local conditions, events and natural disasters. Certain regions in which our stores are located may be subject to adverse local conditions, events or natural disasters. A natural disaster may damage our stores or other operations which may adversely affect the financial results of the Company. In addition, if severe weather, such as heavy snowfall or extreme temperatures, discourages or restricts customers in a particular region from traveling to our stores, our sales could be adversely affected. If severe weather occurs during the first and third quarters of the year, the adverse impact to our sales and profitability could be even greater than at other times during the year because we generate a significant portion of our sales and profits during these periods. Unanticipated conditions in foreign markets may adversely affect our ability to operate effectively in those markets. In addition to our stores in the United States, we currently own or franchise stores in Canada, Chile, Guatemala, Puerto Rico and Saudi Arabia. We may in the future expand into additional foreign markets. We are subject to the regulation and economic and political conditions of any foreign market in which we operate our stores and any change in the regulation or conditions of these foreign markets may adversely affect our financial results. Changes in foreign markets that may affect our financial results include, but are not limited to, taxation, inflation, currency fluctuations, political instability, war, increased regulations and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. We are subject to risks in connection with owning and leasing real estate. As owner and lessee of the land and/or building for our stores we are subject to all of the risks generally associated with owning and leasing real estate, including changes in the supply and demand for real estate in general and the supply and demand for the use of the stores. Any obligation to continue making rental payments with respect to leases for closed stores could adversely affect our financial results. We may not be able to adequately protect our trademarks or other proprietary rights. We own certain common law trademark rights and a number of federal and international trademark and service mark registrations and proprietary rights relating to our operations. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We, therefore, devote appropriate resources to the protection of our trademarks and proprietary rights. The protective actions that we take, however, may not be enough to prevent unauthorized usage or imitation by others, which could harm our image, brand or competitive position and, if we commence litigation to enforce our rights, we may incur significant legal fees. We cannot be assured that third parties will not claim that our trademarks or menu offerings infringe upon their proprietary rights. Any such claim, whether or not it has merit, may result in costly litigation, cause delays in introducing new menu items in the future or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. 9 Table of Contents We are dependent on certain systems and technologies which may be disrupted. The Company’s operations are dependent upon the successful functioning of our computer and information systems. Damage, interruption or failure of our systems may result in additional development costs, loss of customers, loss of customer data, negative publicity, harm to our business and reputation and exposure to losses or other liabilities. We may be adversely affected by negative publicity relating to our target market. The Company’s target market of children between the ages of two and 12 and families with small children may be highly sensitive to adverse publicity that may arise from an actual or perceived negative isolated event within one of our stores. We are also subject to risks of litigation and regulatory action regarding advertising to our target market. Any such litigation or regulatory action may adversely affect our financial results. There can be no assurance that the Company will not experience negative publicity regarding one or more of its stores. The occurrence of negative publicity regarding one or more of the Company’s locations could materially and adversely affect the Company’s image with its customers and its results of operations. We are subject to various government regulations which may adversely affect our operations and financial performance. The development and operation of our stores are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations in many areas of our business, including, but not limited to, those that impose restrictions, levy a fee or tax, or require a permit or license, or other regulatory approval. Difficulties or failure in obtaining required permits, licenses or other regulatory approvals could delay or prevent the opening of a new store, and the suspension of, or inability to renew, a license or permit could interrupt operations at an existing store. The Company is also subject to laws governing its relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working and safety conditions, and immigration status requirements. A significant portion of the Company’s store personnel are paid at rates related to the minimum wage established by federal, state and municipal law. Increases in such minimum wage result in higher labor costs to the Company, which may be partially offset by price increases and operational efficiencies. While the Company endeavors to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, governmental and regulatory bodies may change such laws and regulations in the future, which may require the Company to incur substantial cost increases. If the Company fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, it may be subject to various sanctions, and/or penalties and fines. Additionally, failure to protect the integrity and security of our customers’ personal information could expose us to litigation, as well as materially damage our standing with our customers. We face litigation risks from customers, franchisees, employees and other third parties in the ordinary course of business. The Company’s business is subject to the risk of litigation by current and former employees, consumers, suppliers, shareholders or others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend future litigation may be significant. There may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation that could decrease customer acceptance of our food or entertainment offerings, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. We are continually subject to risks from litigation and regulatory action regarding advertising to our market of children between the ages of two and 12 years old. In addition, since certain of our stores serve alcoholic beverages, we are subject to “dram shop” statutes. These statutes generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Recent litigation against restaurant chains has resulted in significant judgments and settlements under dram shop statutes. Under certain circumstances plaintiffs may file certain types of claims which may not be covered by insurance. In some cases, plaintiffs may seek punitive damages which may not be covered by insurance. Any litigation the Company faces could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents We face risks with respect to product liability claims and product recalls. We purchase merchandise from third-parties and offer this merchandise to customers for sale or in exchange for prize tickets. This third-party merchandise could be subject to recalls and other actions by regulatory authorities. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, issues that result in recalls of merchandise. In addition, individuals have asserted claims, and may in the future assert claims, that they have sustained injuries from third-party merchandise offered by us, and we may be subject to future lawsuits relating to these claims. There is a risk that these claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside of the scope of, our insurance coverage. Any of the issues mentioned above could result in damage to our reputation, diversion of development and management resources, reduced sales and increased costs, any of which could harm our business. Changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards could affect reported results of operations. Generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations for many aspects of our business are highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these accounting standards, new accounting pronouncements and interpretations may occur that could adversely affect the Company’s reported financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. Other risk factors may adversely affect our financial performance. Other risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements by affecting, among many things, pricing, consumer spending and consumer confidence, include, without limitation, changes in economic conditions, increased fuel costs and availability for our employees, customers and suppliers, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospects of these events, consumer perceptions of food safety, changes in consumer preferences and behaviors, governmental monetary policies, changes in demographic trends, availability of employees, terrorist acts, energy shortages and rolling blackouts, and weather (including major hurricanes and regional snow storms) and other acts of God. Risks Related to Our Common Stock A failure to establish, maintain and apply adequate internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse affect on our business and/or market valuation of our common stock. The Company is subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”). These provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, which is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. We had previously identified a material weakness relating to our historical stock option granting process, and have taken steps to improve our corporate governance process in regards to granting of equity compensation awards in the future. As of December 30, 2007, we have concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective; however there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain all of the controls necessary to remain in compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley in the future. Should the Company identify any material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remediate such material weaknesses in a timely manner. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report financial results accurately and timely or to detect and/or prevent fraud. A failure to maintain an effective system of internal control may also result in a negative market reaction in regards to the valuation of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 11 Table of Contents 