Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following factors, as well as other factors that are described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, could adversely affect the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows and could cause the Company's actual results or outcomes to differ materially from any projected outcome contained in any forward-looking statement in this report. Implementation of Growth Strategies The Company's continued growth depends, to a significant degree, on its ability to successfully implement its growth strategies. Among such strategies, the Company plans to continue to open new restaurants in selected markets. The opening and success of such new Chuck E. Cheese's restaurants will depend on various factors, including the availability of suitable sites, the negotiation of acceptable lease terms for such locations, store sales cannibalization, the ability to meet construction schedules, the ability of the Company to manage such expansion and hire and train personnel to manage the new restaurants, as well as general economic and business conditions. The ability of the Company to successfully open new restaurants will also depend upon the availability of sufficient funds for such purpose, including funds from operations, the Company's existing credit facility, future debt financings, future equity offerings or a combination thereof. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in opening and operating the number of anticipated new restaurants on a timely or profitable basis. The Company's growth is also dependent on management's ability to continually evolve and update the Company's business model to anticipate and respond to changing customer needs and competitive conditions. There can be no assurance that management will be able to successfully anticipate changes in competitive conditions or customer needs or that the market will accept the Company's business model. Family Restaurant/Entertainment Industry The family restaurant/entertainment industry is affected by national, regional and local economic conditions, demographic trends and consumer tastes. The performance of individual restaurants may be affected by factors such as changes in consumer disposable income, demographic trends, weather conditions, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing restaurants. Dependence on frequent deliveries of fresh food products also subjects food service businesses, such as the Company, to the risk that shortages or interruptions in supply caused by adverse weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients. In addition, factors such as inflation, increased food, labor and employee benefit costs, fluctuations in price of utilities, insurance costs and the availability of experienced management and hourly employees may also adversely affect the restaurant industry in general and the Company's restaurant centers in particular. The entertainment industry is affected by many factors, including changes in customer preferences and increases in the type and number of entertainment offerings. Operating costs may also be affected by further increases in the minimum hourly wage, unemployment tax rates, sales taxes and similar matters over which the Company has no control. Competition The Company believes that its combined restaurant and entertainment center concept puts it in a niche which combines elements of both the restaurant and entertainment industries. As a result, the Company, to some degree, competes with entities in both industries. Although other restaurant chains presently utilize the concept of combined family restaurant/entertainment operations, the Company believes these competitors operate primarily on a local or regional, market-by-market basis. Within the traditional restaurant sector, the Company competes with other casual restaurants on a nationwide basis. The Company's high operating leverage may make it particularly susceptible to competition. Such competitive market conditions, including the effectiveness of the Company's advertising and promotion and the emergence of significant new competition, could adversely affect the Company's ability to successfully increase its results of operations. Dependence on Key Personnel The success of the Company's business will continue to be highly dependent upon the continued employment of Richard M. Frank, the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, Michael H. Magusiak, the President of the Company, and other members of the Company's senior management team. Although the Company has entered into employment agreements with each of Mr. Frank and Mr. Magusiak, the loss of the services of either of such individuals could have a material adverse effect upon the Company's business and development. The Company's success will also depend upon its ability to retain and attract additional skilled management personnel to its senior management team and at its operational level. There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to retain the services of Messrs. Frank or Magusiak, senior members of its management team or the required operational support at the store level in the future. Sensitivity to Negative Publicity The Company's target market of two to 12 year old children and families with small children is potentially highly sensitive to adverse publicity. There can be no assurance that the Company will not experience negative publicity regarding one or more of its restaurants. The occurrence of negative publicity regarding one or more of the Company's locations could materially and adversely affect the Company's image with its customers and its results of operations. Fluctuations in Quarterly Results of Operations; Seasonality The Company has experienced, and in the future could experience, quarterly variations in revenues as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside the Company's control, including the timing and number of new store openings, the timing of capital investments in existing stores, the timing of school vacations and holidays, weather conditions and natural disasters. The Company typically experiences lower net sales in the second and fourth quarters than in the first and third quarters. If revenues are below expectations in any given quarter, the Company's operating results would likely be materially adversely affected for that quarter. Government Regulations The Company and its franchisees are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting operations, including those relating to the use of video and arcade games and rides, the preparation and sale of food and beverages, and those relating to building and zoning requirements. The Company and its franchisees are also subject to laws governing their relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working and safety conditions, and citizenship requirements. In addition, the Company is subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission, Federal Communication Commission and must comply with certain state laws which govern the offer, sale and termination of franchises and the refusal to renew franchises. Difficulties or failures in obtaining required licenses or other regulatory approvals could delay or prevent the opening of a new restaurant, and the suspension of, or inability to renew, a license or permit could interrupt operations at an existing restaurant. Litigation The Company's business is subject to the risk of litigation by employees, consumers, suppliers, shareholders or others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend future litigation may be significant. There may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation that could decrease customer acceptance of our services, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. As a result, litigation may adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to establish, maintain and apply adequate internal control over financial reporting The Company is subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, which is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Should the Company identify a material weakness in internal control, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to remediate any furture material weaknesses that may be identified in a timely manner or maintain all of the controls necessary to remain in compliance. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit the Company's ability to report financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. Changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards could affect reported results of operations Changes in accounting standards, new accounting pronouncements and interpretations may occur that could adversely affect the Company's reported financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 