ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Our business operations and the implementation of our business strategy are subject to significant risks inherent in our business, including, without limitation, the risks and uncertainties described below. The occurrence of any one or more of the risks or uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Because these forward-looking statements are based on estimates and assumptions that are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control or are subject to change, actual results could be materially different. We may not be successful in the implementation of our strategic plan, which could adversely affect our business and our consolidated financial results. Our ability to increase revenues and improve financial results depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to successfully implement our long-term growth strategy. As part of our long-term growth strategy, we plan to upgrade the games, rides and entertainment in some of our existing stores, remodel and expand certain of our existing stores and open additional new stores in selected markets. The opening and success of new Chuck E. Cheese’s stores is dependent on various factors, including but not limited to the availability of suitable sites, the negotiation of acceptable lease terms for such locations, our ability to meet construction schedules, our ability to manage such expansion and hire and train personnel to manage the new stores, the potential cannibalization of sales at our adjacent stores located in the market, as well as general economic and business conditions. Our ability to successfully open new stores or remodel, expand or upgrade the entertainment at existing stores will also depend upon the availability of sufficient capital for such purposes, including operating cash flow, our existing credit facility, future debt financings, future equity offerings or a combination thereof. There can also be no assurance that we will be successful in opening and operating the number of anticipated new stores on a timely or profitable basis. There can be no assurance that we can continue to successfully remodel or expand our existing facilities or upgrade the games and entertainment or obtain a reasonable return on such investments. Our growth is also dependent on our ability to continually evolve and update our business model to anticipate and respond to changing customer preferences and competitive conditions. In recent years, we have reduced capital expenditures allocated to our existing stores and increased capital expenditures related to new store development. This reduction in capital expenditures allocated to our existing stores may have an adverse effect on our comparable store sales and revenues. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully anticipate changes in competitive conditions or customer preferences or that the market will accept our business model. We have in recent years made significant changes to our marketing and advertising strategy, including (a) the introduction of an updated Chuck E. Cheese character; (b) a reallocation of our media expenditures to increase online impressions; and (c) promoting our value proposition and national menu pricing through free-standing inserts in newspapers, on television and online. There can be no assurance that these changes to our traditional media strategy, which was heavily weighted towards kids television advertising, free-standing inserts in newspapers and significant couponing, will be effective at reaching customers or be accepted by customers. If we are not effective in reaching our customers with our new marketing and advertising strategy or if these changes are not accepted by guests, our consolidated financial results could be adversely affected. Part of our growth strategy depends on our ability to attract new international franchisees and the ability of these franchisees to open and operate new stores on a profitable basis. As we do not have a history of significant international growth experience, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully execute this strategy in the future. Delays or failures in identifying desirable franchise partners and opening new franchised stores could adversely affect our planned growth. Our franchisees depend on the availability of financing to construct and open new stores. If these franchisees experience difficulty in obtaining adequate financing, our growth strategy and franchise revenues could be adversely affected. Additionally, our growth strategy depends 9 Table of Contents on the ability of our international franchisees to learn and implement our business strategy, while adapting it to the local culture. There can be no assurance that the Chuck E. Cheese’s concept will be accepted in the international markets where we open new franchise stores. The restaurant and entertainment industries are highly competitive and that competition could harm our business and our consolidated financial results. We believe that our combined restaurant and entertainment center concept puts us in a niche, which combines elements of both the restaurant and entertainment industries. As a result, we compete with entities in both industries. The family dining industry and the entertainment industry are highly competitive, with a number of major national and regional chains operating in each of these spaces. Although other restaurant chains presently utilize the concept of combined family dining-entertainment operations, we believe these competitors operate primarily on a local, regional or market-by-market basis. Within the traditional restaurant sector, we compete with other casual dining restaurants on a nationwide basis with respect to price, quality and speed of service, type and quality of food, personnel, the number and location of restaurants, attractiveness of facilities, effectiveness of advertising and marketing programs and new product development. To a lesser extent, our competition also includes quick service restaurants with respect to pricing, service, experience and perceived value. Within the entertainment sector, we compete with movie theaters, bowling alleys, theme parks and other family-oriented concepts on a nationwide basis with respect to perceived value and overall experience. Additionally, children’s interests and opportunities for entertainment continue to expand. If we are unable to successfully evolve our concept, including new food and entertainment offerings, we may lose market share to our competition. These competitive market conditions, including the emergence of significant new competition, could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Changes in consumer discretionary spending could reduce sales at our stores and have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial results. Purchases at our stores are discretionary for consumers and, therefore, our results of operations are susceptible to economic slowdowns and recessions. We are dependent in particular upon discretionary spending by consumers living in the communities in which our stores are located. A significant portion of our stores are clustered in certain geographic areas. Currently, a total of 171 Chuck E. Cheese’s stores are located in California, Texas and Florida (168 are Company-owned and 3 are franchised locations). A significant weakening in the local economies of these geographic areas, or any of the areas in which our stores are located, may cause consumers to curtail discretionary spending, which in turn could reduce our Company store sales and have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial results. The future performance of the U.S. and global economies are uncertain and are directly affected by numerous national and global financial and other factors that are beyond our control. Increases in credit card debt, home mortgage and other borrowing costs and declines in housing values could further weaken the U.S. economy, leading to a further decrease in discretionary consumer spending. We believe that consumers generally are more willing to make discretionary purchases, including at our stores, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. Further, fluctuations in the retail price of gasoline and the potential for future increases in gasoline and other energy costs may affect consumers’ disposable incomes available for entertainment and dining. Changes in consumer spending habits as a result of a recession or a reduction in consumer confidence are likely to reduce our sales performance, which could have an adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial results. In addition, these economic factors could affect our level of spending on planned capital initiatives at our stores, and thereby impact our future sales. 10 Table of Contents Economic uncertainty in the U.S. and Canada could adversely impact our business and consolidated financial results, and a renewed recession could materially adversely affect our business and consolidated financial results. Our target market of families with young children can be highly sensitive to adverse economic conditions, which may impact their desire to spend discretionary dollars resulting in lower customer traffic levels in our stores. Reduced consumer confidence as a result of a renewed recession, job losses, home foreclosures, investment losses in the financial markets, personal bankruptcies and reduced access to credit may also result in lower levels of traffic to our stores. Moreover, our customer traffic may be impacted by major changes in U.S. fiscal policy, including the expiration of the “payroll tax holiday” and other austerity measures. If conditions worsen, we could experience a deterioration in customer traffic and/or a reduction in the average amount spent in our stores, which would negatively impact our sales. This could result in a reduction in staffing at our stores, deferring or curtailing our capital expenditures, significant asset impairments and potential store closures. Future recessionary effects are unknown at this time and could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial results. Negative publicity concerning food quality, health, general safety or other issues could negatively affect our brand image and adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Food service businesses can be adversely affected by litigation and complaints from guests, consumer groups or government authorities resulting from food quality, illness, injury or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one store or a limited number of stores. Publicity concerning food-borne illnesses, injuries caused by food tampering and general safety issues could negatively affect our operations, reputation and brand. Families with young children may be highly sensitive to adverse publicity that may arise from an actual or perceived negative event within one or more of our stores. We have, from time to time, received negative publicity related to altercations and other incidents in certain of our stores. There can be no assurance that in the future we will not experience negative publicity regarding one or more of our stores, and the existence of negative publicity could materially and adversely affect our brand image with our customers and our consolidated financial results. Increases in food, labor and other operating costs could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. The performance of our stores is affected by changes in the costs for food products we purchase, including but not limited to cheese, dough, produce, chicken and beef. The commodity prices for these food products vary throughout the year and may be affected by changes in supply, demand and other factors beyond our control. We have not entered into any hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to commodity price volatility associated with commodity prices; however, we typically enter into short-term purchasing arrangements, which may contain pricing designed to minimize the impact of commodity price fluctuations. A material increase in our food costs could negatively affect our profit margins and adversely affect our consolidated financial results. A significant number of our store-level employees are subject to various minimum wage requirements. Several states and cities in which we operate stores have established a minimum wage higher than the federally mandated minimum wage. There may be similar increases implemented in other jurisdictions in which we operate or seek to operate. Changes in the minimum wage could increase our labor costs and could have an adverse effect on our profit margins and our consolidated financial results. The performance of our stores is also adversely affected by increases in the price of utilities on which the stores depend, such as electricity and natural gas, whether as a result of inflation, shortages or interruptions in supply, or otherwise. Our business also incurs significant costs for and including, among other things, insurance, marketing, taxes, real estate, borrowing and litigation, all of which could increase due to inflation, rising interest rates, changes in laws, competition or other events beyond our control, which could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial results. 11 Table of Contents We may incur significant costs and experience significant delays in connection with our strategic plan, which could impair our ability to grow our business and could harm our consolidated financial results. Our long-term growth is dependent on the success of strategic initiatives to effectively advertise and market our concept to our target audience, enhance the facilities of our existing stores and increase the number of our stores. In recent years, we have made significant changes to our marketing and advertising strategy, which increased our total advertising costs. We may incur additional advertising costs in the future, as there can be no assurance that our current marketing plan will be effective in reaching our targeted customer base. We incur significant costs each time we open a new store and other expenses when we relocate or remodel existing stores. The expenses of opening, relocating or remodeling any of our stores may be higher than anticipated. If we are unable to open or are delayed in opening new or relocated stores, we may incur significant costs, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. If we are unable to remodel or are delayed in remodeling stores, we may incur significant costs, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. In addition, our inability to effectively implement our marketing and advertising strategy could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. We are subject to various government regulations, including health care reform, which could adversely affect our business and consolidated financial results. The development and operation of our stores are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations in many areas of our business, including, but not limited to, those that impose restrictions, levy a fee or tax, or require a permit, license or other regulatory approval, and those that relate to the operation of video and arcade games and rides, the preparation of food and beverages, the sale and service of alcoholic beverages, and building and zoning requirements. Difficulties or failure in obtaining required permits, licenses or other regulatory approvals could delay or prevent the opening of a new store, and the suspension of, or inability to renew, a license or permit could interrupt operations at an existing store. We continue to review the health care reform law enacted by Congress in March of 2010 and regulations issued related to the law to evaluate the potential impact of this new law on our business, and to accommodate various parts of the law as they take effect. The costs and other effects of the new legal requirements cannot be determined with certainty. For example, health care reform law may result in increased costs directly for our compliance or indirectly through increased prices charged by our vendors because of their increased compliance costs. We are also subject to laws governing our relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, other health insurance mandates, working and safety conditions, immigration status requirements and child labor laws. Additionally, potential changes in federal labor laws, including card verification regulations, could result in portions of our workforce being subjected to greater organized labor influence. This could result in an increase to our labor costs. A significant portion of our store personnel are paid at rates related to the minimum wage established by federal, state and municipal law. Increases in such minimum wage result in higher labor costs, which may be only partially offset by price increases and operational efficiencies. Furthermore, we are also subject to certain laws and regulations that govern our handling of customers’ personal information. A failure to protect the integrity and security of our customers’ personal information could expose us to litigation, as well as materially damage our reputation. While we endeavor to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, governmental and regulatory bodies may change such laws and regulations in the future, which may require us to incur substantial cost increases. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to various sanctions and/or penalties and fines or may be required to cease operations until we achieve compliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial results. Public health issues could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Our business may be impacted by certain public health issues including epidemics, pandemics and the rapid spread of certain illness and contagious diseases. To the extent that our customers feel uncomfortable visiting 12 Table of Contents public locations, particularly locations with a large number of children, due to a perceived risk of exposure to a public health issue, we could experience a reduction in customer traffic, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Changes in consumers’ health, nutrition and dietary preferences could adversely affect demand for our menu offerings and adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Our industry is affected by consumer preferences and perceptions. Changes in prevailing health or dietary preferences and perceptions may cause consumers to avoid certain products we offer in favor of alternative or healthier foods. If consumer eating habits change significantly and we are unable to respond with appropriate menu offerings, it could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Any disruption of our commodity distribution system, which currently utilizes a single distributor, could adversely affect our business and consolidated financial results. We use a single company to distribute most of the products and supplies used in our stores. Any failure by this distributor to adequately distribute products or supplies to our stores could increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial results. We face risks with respect to product liability claims and product recalls, which could adversely affect our reputation, business and consolidated financial results. We purchase merchandise from third parties and offer this merchandise to customers in exchange for prize tickets or for sale. This merchandise could be subject to recalls and other actions by regulatory authorities. Changes in laws and regulations could also impact the type of merchandise we offer to our customers. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, issues that result in recalls of merchandise. In addition, individuals have asserted claims, and may in the future assert claims, that they have sustained injuries from third-party merchandise offered by us, and we may be subject to future lawsuits relating to these claims. There is a risk that these claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside of the scope of, our insurance coverage. Any of the issues mentioned above could result in damage to our reputation, diversion of development and management resources, or reduced sales and increased costs, any of which could adversely affect our business and consolidated financial results. Our current insurance policies may not provide adequate levels of coverage against all claims, and we could incur losses that are not covered by our insurance, which could adversely affect our business and consolidated financial results. We have procured and maintain insurance coverage, which we believe is typical for a business of our type and size. However, we could experience a loss that either cannot be insured against or is not commercially reasonable to insure. For example, insurance covering liability for violations of wage and hour laws is generally not available. Under certain circumstances, plaintiffs may file certain types of claims, which may not be covered by insurance. In some cases, plaintiffs may seek punitive damages, which may also not be covered by insurance. Losses such as these, if they occur, could adversely affect our business and consolidated financial results. If we are unable to maintain and protect our information technology systems and technologies, we could suffer disruptions in our business, damage our reputation with customers and incur substantial costs. The operation of our business is heavily dependent upon the implementation, integrity, security and successful functioning of our computer networks and information systems, including the point-of-sales systems in our stores, data centers that process transactions, enterprise resource planning system and various software applications used in our operations. In the ordinary course of our business, we also collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers 13 Table of Contents and business partners and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, our computer networks and information systems. A failure of our systems to operate effectively as a result of a cyber-attack, damage to, interruption or failure of any of these systems could result in a failure to meet our reporting obligations, material misstatements in our Consolidated Financial Statements or losses due to disruption of our business operations. These adverse situations could also lead to loss of sales or profits or cause us to incur additional development costs. In addition, despite our efforts to secure our computer networks and information systems, security could be compromised or confidential information could be misappropriated, resulting in a loss of customers’ or employees’ personal information, negative publicity or harm to our business and reputation which could cause us to incur costs to reimburse third parties for damages. We face litigation risks from customers, employees, franchisees and other third parties in the ordinary course of business, which could adversely affect our business and consolidated financial results. Our business is subject to the risk of litigation by customers, current and former employees, suppliers, stockholders or others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend future litigation may be significant. There may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation that could decrease customer acceptance of our food or entertainment offerings, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. We are continuously subject to risks from litigation and regulatory action regarding advertising to our market of children between the ages of two and 12 years old. In addition, since certain of our stores serve alcoholic beverages, we are subject to “dram shop” statutes. These statutes generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Although we believe we are adequately covered by insurance, a judgment against us under a “dram shop” statute in excess of the liability covered could have an adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial results. Our procurement of games, rides, redemption prizes and merchandise is dependent upon a few global providers, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our business and consolidated financial results. Our ability to continue to procure new games, rides, other entertainment-related equipment, redemption prizes and merchandise is important to our business strategy. The number of suppliers from which we can purchase these items is limited due to industry consolidation over the past several years. To the extent that the number of suppliers continues to decline, we could be subject to the risk of distribution delays, pricing pressure, lack of innovation and other associated risks. Furthermore, some of our suppliers are located in China, and continuing and increasing tension between the U.S. and Chinese governments could also result in interruptions in our ability to procure these products, which could adversely affect our business and consolidated financial results. Our stores may be adversely affected by local conditions, natural disasters and other events. Certain regions in which our stores are located may be subject to adverse local conditions, natural disasters and other events. Severe weather, such as heavy snowfall or extreme temperatures, may discourage or restrict customers in a particular region from traveling to our stores, which could adversely affect our sales. If severe weather conditions occur during the first and third quarters of the year, the adverse impact to our sales and profitability could be even greater than at other times during the year because we generate a significant portion of our sales and profits during these periods. Natural disasters including tornadoes, hurricanes, floods and earthquakes may damage our stores or other operations, which may adversely affect our consolidated financial results. 14 Table of Contents Increases in our leverage could restrict our operations and future activities, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry. As of December 30, 2012, our total funded indebtedness was $412.2 million. We had cash and cash equivalents of $19.6 million and an additional $100.1 million available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility at that date. As of December 30, 2012, our leverage ratio was 2.4 to 1.0, compared to our maximum leverage ratio, as defined in our credit agreement, of 3.0 to 1.0, or 2.75 to 1.0 for the unrestricted ability to repurchase shares of our common stock and pay cash dividends. An increase in our leverage could have adverse effects on our operations, including (a) require a portion of cash flows from operating activities to be dedicated to paying down our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flows to fund our operations, capital expenditures or future business opportunities; (b) limit our ability to repurchase shares and pay cash dividends; (c) expose us to interest rate risk on borrowings under our revolving credit facility; and (d) limit our ability to adjust to changing economic and market conditions. In addition, under our revolving credit facility, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to meet those ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our revolving credit facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our revolving credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks could intensify. We are dependent on the service of certain key personnel, and the loss of any of these personnel could harm our business. Our success significantly depends on the continued employment and performance of our senior management team. We have employment agreements with certain members of our senior management team. However, we cannot prevent the members of our senior management team from terminating their employment with us. Losing the services of senior management could harm our business until a suitable replacement is hired, and such replacement may not have equal experience or capabilities. Our business is highly seasonal, and quarterly results may fluctuate significantly as a result of this seasonality. We have experienced, and in the future could experience, quarterly variations in our revenues and profitability as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control, including the timing of school vacations, holidays and changing weather conditions. We typically generate higher sales volumes and profitability in the first and third quarters of each fiscal year compared to the second and fourth quarters. If there is a material decrease in the customer traffic in our stores during the first and third quarters of the year, our operating results could be adversely affected for that quarter and further, may have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial results for the fiscal year. We may not be able to adequately protect our trademarks or other proprietary rights, which could have a material adverse affect on our business and consolidated financial results. We own certain common law trademark rights and a number of federal and international trademark and service mark registrations and proprietary rights relating to our operations. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We, therefore, devote 15 Table of Contents appropriate resources to the protection of our trademarks and proprietary rights. However, the protective actions that we take may not be enough to prevent unauthorized usage or imitation by others, which could harm our image, brand or competitive position and, if we commence litigation to enforce our rights, we may incur significant legal fees. There can be no assurance that third parties will not claim that our trademarks or menu offerings infringe upon their proprietary rights. Any such claim, whether or not it has merit, may result in costly litigation, cause delays in introducing new menu items in the future, interfere with our international development agreements or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial results. We are subject to risks in connection with owning and leasing real estate, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. As an owner or lessee of the land and/or building for our Company-owned stores, we are subject to all of the risks generally associated with owning and leasing real estate, including changes in the supply and demand for real estate in general and the supply and demand for the use of the stores. We may be compelled to continue to operate a non-profitable store due to our obligations under lease agreements, or we may close a non-profitable store and continue making rental payments with respect to the lease, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Furthermore, economic instability may inhibit our landlords from securing financing and maintaining good standing in their existing financing arrangements, which could result in their inability to keep, or attract new, tenants thereby reducing customer traffic to our stores. Unanticipated conditions in foreign markets could adversely affect our ability to operate effectively in those markets. In addition to our stores in the United States, we currently own and operate stores in Canada. In addition, franchisees operate stores domestically and in Chile, Guam, Guatemala, Mexico, Puerto Rico, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. We and our franchisees are subject to the regulatory, economic and political conditions of any foreign market in which we and our franchisees operate stores. Any change in the laws, regulations and economic and political stability of these foreign markets could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Changes in foreign markets that could affect our consolidated financial results include, but are not limited to, taxation, inflation, currency fluctuations, political instability, economic instability, war, increased regulations and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. Additionally, our long-term growth strategy includes adding franchisees in additional foreign markets in the future. To the extent unfavorable conditions exist in the foreign markets we plan to expand into, we and our international franchise partners may not be successful in opening the number of anticipated new stores on a timely and profitable basis. Delays or failures in opening new foreign market store locations could adversely affect our planned growth. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 16 Table of Contents 