Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business operations and the implementation of our business strategy are subject to significant risks inherent in our business, including, without limitation, the risks and uncertainties described below. The occurrence of any one or more of the risks or uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, operations, industry, financial position and financial performance in the future. Because these forward-looking statements are based on estimates and assumptions that are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control or are subject to change, actual results could be materially different. We may not be successful in the implementation of our growth strategies. Our continued growth depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to successfully implement our growth strategies. Among such strategies, we plan to continue to open new restaurants in selected markets and to enhance and upgrade the games and entertainment at existing restaurants. The opening and success of such new Chuck E. Cheese’s restaurants will depend on various factors, including the availability of suitable sites, the negotiation of acceptable lease terms for such locations, store sales cannibalization, the ability to meet construction schedules, our ability to manage such expansion and hire and train personnel to manage the new restaurants, as well as general economic and business conditions. Our ability to successfully open new restaurants will also depend upon the availability of sufficient funds for such purpose, including funds from operations, our existing credit facility, future debt financings, future equity offerings or a combination thereof. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in opening and operating the number of anticipated new restaurants on a timely or profitable basis. There can be no assurance that we can continue to successfully upgrade the games and entertainment at existing restaurants. Our growth is also dependent on management’s ability to continually evolve and update our business model to anticipate and respond to changing customer needs and competitive conditions. There can be no assurance that management will be able to successfully anticipate changes in competitive conditions or customer needs or that the market will accept our business model. We may be unsuccessful in opening, closing and remodeling our restaurants. Our long-term growth is dependent on the success of strategic initiatives to increase the number of our restaurants and enhance the facilities of existing restaurants. We incur significant pre-opening expenses each time we open a new restaurant and other expenses when we close, relocate or remodel existing restaurants. The expenses of opening, closing, relocating or remodeling any of our restaurants, may be higher than anticipated. If we are unable to open or are delayed in opening new restaurants, we may incur significant costs which may adversely affect our financial results. If we are unable to remodel or are delayed in remodeling restaurants, we may incur significant costs which may adversely affect our financial results. We are dependent on the service of certain key personnel. The success of our business will continue to be highly dependent upon the continued employment of Richard M. Frank, the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, Michael H. Magusiak, the President of the Company, and other members of our senior management team. Although the Company has entered into employment agreements with each of Mr. Frank and Mr. Magusiak, the loss of the services of either of such individuals could have a material adverse effect upon our business and development. Our success will also depend upon our ability to retain and attract additional skilled management personnel to our senior management team and at our operational level. There can be no assurances that we will be able to retain the services of Messrs. Frank or Magusiak, senior members of our management team or the required operational support at the store level in the future. 7 Table of Contents Our business is highly seasonal and quarterly results may fluctuate significantly as a result of this seasonality. We have experienced, and in the future could experience, quarterly variations in revenues as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control, including the timing and number of new store openings, the timing of capital investments in existing stores, the timing of school vacations and holidays, weather conditions and natural disasters. We typically experience lower net sales in the second and fourth quarters than in the first and third quarters. If revenues are below expectations in any given quarter, our operating results would likely be materially adversely affected for that quarter. We may be negatively affected by trends in the family restaurant/entertainment industry and national, regional and local economic conditions. The family restaurant/entertainment industry is affected by national, regional and local economic conditions, demographic trends and consumer tastes. The performance of individual restaurants may be affected by factors such as changes in consumer disposable income, demographic trends, weather conditions, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing restaurants. Dependence on frequent deliveries of fresh food products also subjects food service businesses, such as ours, to the risk that shortages or interruptions in supply caused by adverse weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients. In addition, factors such as inflation, increased food, labor and employee benefit costs, fluctuations in price of utilities, insurance costs and the availability of experienced management and hourly employees may also adversely affect the restaurant industry in general and our restaurants in particular. The entertainment industry is affected by many factors, including changes in customer preferences and increases in the type and number of entertainment offerings. Operating costs may also be affected by further increases in the minimum hourly wage, unemployment tax rates, sales taxes and similar matters over which we have no control. We are subject to intense competition in both the restaurant and entertainment industries. We believe that our combined restaurant and entertainment center concept puts us in a niche which combines elements of both the restaurant and entertainment industries. As a result, the Company, to some degree, competes with entities in both industries. Although other restaurant chains presently utilize the concept of combined family restaurant/entertainment operations, we believe these competitors operate primarily on a local or regional, market-by-market basis. Within the traditional restaurant sector, we compete with other casual restaurants on a nationwide basis with respect to price, service, personnel, type and quality of food, the number and location of restaurants, quality and speed of service, attractiveness of facilities, effectiveness of advertising and marketing programs, and new product development. Our high operating leverage may make the Company particularly susceptible to competition. Such competitive market conditions, including the effectiveness of our advertising and promotion and the emergence of significant new competition, could adversely affect our ability to successfully increase our results of operations. Changes in consumers’ health, nutrition and dietary preferences could adversely affect our financial results. Our industry is affected by consumer preferences and perceptions. Changes in prevailing health or dietary preferences and perceptions may cause consumers to avoid certain products we offer in favor of alternative or healthier foods. If consumer eating habits change significantly and we are unable to respond with appropriate menu offerings, it could adversely affect our financial results. Negative publicity concerning food quality, health and other issues could adversely affect our financial results. Food service businesses can be adversely affected by litigation and complaints from guests, consumer groups or government authorities resulting from food quality, illness, injury or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one restaurant or a limited number of restaurants. Publicity concerning food-borne illnesses and injuries caused by food tampering may negatively affect our operations, reputation and brand. Such publicity may have a significant adverse impact on the financial results of the Company. We could incur significant liabilities if a lawsuit or claim resulted in a judgment against us, or in significant litigation costs, regardless of the result. 8 Table of Contents We may experience an increase in food, labor and other costs. An increase in food, labor, utilities, insurance and/or other operating costs, may adversely affect the financial results of the Company. Such an increase may adversely affect the Company directly or adversely affect the vendors, franchisees and others whose performance has a significant impact on our financial results. Specifically, any increase in the prices for food commodities, including cheese, could adversely affect our financial results. The performance of our restaurants is also adversely affected by increases in the price of utilities on which the restaurants depend, such as natural gas, whether as a result of inflation, shortages or interruptions in supply, or otherwise. Our business also incurs significant costs for and including among other things, insurance, marketing, taxes, real estate, borrowing and litigation, all of which could increase due to inflation, changes in laws, competition, or other events beyond our control. In addition, a number of our employees are subject to various minimum wage requirements. Several states in which we operate restaurants have established a minimum wage higher than the federally mandated minimum wage. There may be similar increases implemented in other jurisdictions in which we operate or seek to operate. These minimum wage increases may have an adverse effect on our financial results. We are subject to risks from disruption of our commodity distribution system Any disruption in our commodity distribution system could adversely affect our financial results. We use a single vendor to distribute most of the products and supplies used in our restaurants. Any failure by this vendor to adequately distribute products or supplies to our restaurants could increase our costs and have a material adverse affect on our financial results. Our restaurants may be adversely affected by local conditions, events and natural disasters. Certain regions in which our restaurants are located may be subject to adverse local conditions, events or natural disasters. A natural disaster may damage our stores or other operations which may adversely affect the financial results of the Company. Unanticipated conditions in foreign markets may adversely affect our ability to operate effectively in those markets. In addition to our restaurants in the United States, we currently own or franchise restaurants in Canada, Chile, Guatemala, Puerto Rico and Saudi Arabia. We may in the future expand into additional foreign markets. We are subject to the regulation and economic and political conditions of any foreign market in which we operate our restaurants and any change in the regulation or conditions of these foreign markets may adversely affect our financial results. Changes in foreign markets that may affect our financial results include, but are not limited to, taxation, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulations and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. We are subject to risks in connection with owning and leasing real estate. As owner and lessor of the land and/or building for our restaurants we are subject to all of the risks generally associated with owning and leasing real estate, including changes in the supply and demand for real estate in general and the supply and demand for the use of the restaurants. Any obligation to continue making rental payments with respect to leases for closed restaurants could adversely affect our financial results. We may not be able to adequately protect our trademarks or other proprietary rights. We own certain common law trademark rights and a number of federal and international trademark and service mark registrations and proprietary rights relating to our operations. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We, therefore, devote appropriate resources to the protection of our trademarks and proprietary rights. The protective actions that we take, however, may not be enough to prevent unauthorized usage or imitation by others, which could harm our image, brand or competitive position and, if we commence litigation to enforce our rights, cause us to incur significant legal fees. 9 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that third parties will not claim that our trademarks or menu offerings infringe upon their proprietary rights. Any such claim, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause delays in introducing new menu items in the future or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. We are dependent on certain systems and technologies which may be disrupted. The Company’s operations are dependent upon the successful functioning of our computer and information system. Damage, interruption or failure of our systems may result in additional development costs, loss of customers, loss of customer data, negative publicity, harm to our business and reputation and exposure to losses or other liabilities. We may be adversely affected by negative publicity relating to our target market. The Company’s target market of two to twelve year old children and families with small children is potentially highly sensitive to adverse publicity. We are subject to risks of litigation and regulatory action regarding advertising to our target market. Any such litigation or regulatory action may adversely affect our financial results. There can be no assurance that the Company will not experience negative publicity regarding one or more of its restaurants. The occurrence of negative publicity regarding one or more of the Company’s locations could materially and adversely affect the Company’s image with its customers and its results of operations. We are subject to various government regulations. The Company and its franchisees are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting operations, including those relating to the use of video and arcade games and rides, the preparation and sale of food and beverages, and those relating to building and zoning requirements. The Company and its franchisees are also subject to laws governing their relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working and safety conditions, and citizenship requirements. In addition, the Company is subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission, Federal Communication Commission and must comply with certain state laws which govern the offer, sale and termination of franchises and the refusal to renew franchises. Difficulties or failures in obtaining required licenses or other regulatory approvals could delay or prevent the opening of a new restaurant, and the suspension of, or inability to renew, a license or permit could interrupt operations at an existing restaurant. We face litigation risks from customers, franchisees, employees and other third parties in the ordinary course of business. The Company’s business is subject to the risk of litigation by employees, consumers, suppliers, shareholders or others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend future litigation may be significant. There may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation that could decrease customer acceptance of our services, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. Specifically, we are continually subject to risks from litigation and regulatory action regarding advertising to our market of two to twelve year old children. In addition, since certain of our restaurants serve alcoholic beverages, we are subject to “dram shop” statutes. These statutes generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Recent litigation against restaurant chains has resulted in significant judgments and settlements under dram shop statutes. Under certain circumstances plaintiffs may seek punitive damages, which may not be covered by insurance. Any litigation the Company faces could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents A failure to establish, maintain and apply adequate internal control over financial reporting could have a materially adverse affect on our business. The Company is subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, which is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. We have identified a material weakness relating to our historical stock option granting process, and we have taken steps to improve our corporate governance process for equity compensation awards in the future. Should the Company identify other material weaknesses in internal control, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to remediate any future material weaknesses that may be identified in a timely manner or maintain all of the controls necessary to remain in compliance. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit the Company’s ability to report financial results accurately and timely or to detect and/or prevent fraud. Our anti-takeover provisions may limit shareholder value. We have certain provisions in our corporate governance document which may make it difficult, discourage or otherwise prevent a third party from acquiring control of the Company without certain approvals. These provisions may result in shareholders receiving less in exchange for their stock than they otherwise would without the provisions. In addition, these provisions may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our shareholders receiving a premium over the market price for their common stock. Changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards could affect reported results of operations. Generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations for many aspects of our business are highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these accounting standards, new accounting pronouncements and interpretations may occur that could adversely affect the Company’s reported financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. Other risk factors may adversely affect our financial performance. Other risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements by affecting, among many things, pricing, consumer spending and consumer confidence, include, without limitation, changes in economic conditions, increased fuel costs and availability for our employees, customers and suppliers, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospects of these events (such as recent reports on avian flu), consumer perceptions of food safety, changes in consumer tastes and behaviors, governmental monetary policies, changes in demographic trends, availability of employees, terrorist acts, energy shortages and rolling blackouts, and weather (including, major hurricanes and regional snow storms) and other acts of God. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 11 Table of Contents 