ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Our business operations and the implementation of our business strategy are subject to significant risks inherent in our business, including, without limitation, the risks and uncertainties described below. The occurrence of any one or more of the risks or uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors that affect our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, operations, industry, financial position and financial performance in the future. Since these forward-looking statements are based on estimates and assumptions that are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control or are subject to change, actual results could be materially different. Changes in consumer discretionary spending and general economic conditions could reduce sales at our stores and have an adverse effect on our financial results. Purchases at our stores are discretionary for consumers and, therefore, our results of operations are susceptible to economic slowdowns and recessions. We are dependent in particular upon discretionary spending by consumers living in the communities in which our stores are located. A significant portion of our stores are clustered in certain geographic areas. Currently, a total of 166 Chuck E. Cheese’s stores are located in California, Texas and Florida (162 are company-owned and 4 are franchised locations). A significant weakening in the local economies of these geographic areas, or any of the areas in which our stores are located, may cause consumers to curtail discretionary spending, which in turn could reduce our Company store sales and have an adverse effect on our financial results. The future performance of the U.S. and global economies are uncertain and are directly affected by numerous national and global financial and other factors that are beyond our control. Increases in credit card, home mortgage and other borrowing costs and declines in housing values could weaken the U.S. economy leading to a decrease in consumer spending. It is difficult to predict the severity and the duration of such a decrease. We believe that consumers generally are more willing to make discretionary purchases, including at our stores, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. Further, fluctuations in the retail price of gasoline and the potential for future increases in gasoline and other energy costs may affect consumers’ disposable incomes available for entertainment and dining. Changes in consumer spending habits as a result of a recession or a reduction in consumer confidence are likely to reduce our sales performance, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, these economic factors may affect our level of spending on planned capital initiatives at our stores, and thereby impact our future sales. We may not be successful in the implementation of our business development strategies. Our continued growth depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to successfully implement our long-term growth strategies. As part of our long-term growth strategy, we plan to open additional new stores in selected markets, remodel and expand our existing stores and upgrade the games, rides and entertainment at our existing stores. The opening and success of new Chuck E. Cheese’s stores is dependent on various factors, including but not limited to the availability of suitable sites, the negotiation of acceptable lease terms for such locations, our ability to meet construction schedules, our ability to manage such expansion and hire and train personnel to manage the new stores, the potential cannibalization of sales at our adjacent stores located in the market, as well as general economic and business conditions. Our ability to successfully open new stores or remodel, expand or upgrade the entertainment at existing stores will also depend upon the availability of sufficient capital for such purposes, including operating cash flow, our existing credit facility, future debt financings, future equity offerings or a combination thereof. There can also be no assurance that we will be successful in opening and operating the number of anticipated new stores on a timely or profitable basis. There can be no assurance that we can continue to successfully remodel or expand our existing facilities or upgrade the games and entertainment. Our growth is also dependent on our ability to continually evolve and update our business model to anticipate and respond to changing customer needs and competitive conditions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully anticipate changes in competitive conditions or customer needs or that the market will accept our business model. Part of our growth strategy depends on our ability to attract new international franchisees to recently opened markets and the ability of these franchisees to open and operate new stores on a profitable basis. As we do not have a history of significant international growth experience, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully execute this strategy in the future. Delays or failures in identifying desirable franchise partners and opening new franchised stores could adversely affect our planned growth. Our new franchisees depend on the availability of financing to construct and open new stores. If these franchisees experience difficulty in obtaining adequate financing for these purposes, our growth strategy and franchise revenues may be adversely affected. We may incur significant costs in connection with our business development strategies. Our long-term growth is dependent on the success of strategic initiatives to increase the number of our stores and enhance the 8 facilities of existing stores. We incur significant costs each time we open a new store and other expenses when we relocate or remodel existing stores. The expenses of opening, relocating or remodeling any of our stores may be higher than anticipated. If we are unable to open or are delayed in opening new stores, we may incur significant costs which may adversely affect our financial results. If we are unable to remodel or are delayed in remodeling stores, we may incur significant costs which may adversely affect our financial results. Negative publicity concerning food quality, health, safety or other issues could adversely affect our financial results. Food service businesses can be adversely affected by litigation and complaints from guests, consumer groups or government authorities resulting from food quality, illness, injury or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one store or a limited number of stores. Publicity concerning food-borne illnesses, injuries caused by food tampering and safety issues may negatively affect our operations, reputation and brand. Such publicity may have a significant adverse impact on our financial results. Our target market of children between the ages of two and 12 and families with young children may be highly sensitive to adverse publicity that may arise from an actual or perceived negative event within one or more of our stores. There can be no assurance that we will not experience negative publicity regarding one or more of our stores, and the existence of negative publicity could materially and adversely affect our image with our customers and our results of operations. We are subject to competition in both the restaurant and entertainment industries. We believe that our combined restaurant and entertainment center concept puts us in a niche which combines elements of both the restaurant and entertainment industries. As a result, to some degree, we compete with entities in both industries. Although other restaurant chains presently utilize the concept of combined family dining-entertainment operations, we believe these competitors operate primarily on a local, regional or market-by-market basis. Within the traditional restaurant sector, we compete with other casual dining restaurants on a nationwide basis with respect to price, quality and speed of service, type and quality of food, personnel, the number and location of restaurants, attractiveness of facilities, effectiveness of advertising and marketing programs, and new product development. Such competitive market conditions, including the effectiveness of our advertising and promotion and the emergence of significant new competition, could adversely affect our operating results. Disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit and compromise our ability to maintain adequate insurance coverage. Disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect the availability of credit already arranged and the availability and cost of credit in the future. Failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to and reduce the alternative sources of liquidity needed to operate our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring or curtailing our capital expenditures and other discretionary uses of cash. We rely on insurance to mitigate our exposure to catastrophic losses we may sustain to our property, claims by our employees, customers or other third parties. Although we have historically obtained adequate levels of insurance coverage through well rated and capitalized firms, disruptions in the financial markets may affect our ability to obtain coverage under existing policies or purchase insurance under new policies at reasonable rates in the future. Additionally, we are potentially at risk if our insurance carriers become insolvent. As a result, we could potentially be exposed to financial losses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent on the service of certain key personnel. The success of our business is highly dependent upon the continued employment of Richard M. Frank, our Executive Chairman, Michael H. Magusiak, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and other members of our senior management team. Although the Company has entered into employment agreements with each of Mr. Frank and Mr. Magusiak, they can voluntarily leave the Company at any time and the loss of the services of either of such individuals could have a material adverse effect upon our business and development. Our success will also depend upon our ability to retain and attract additional skilled management personnel to our senior management team and at our operational level. There can be no assurances that we will be able to retain the services of Messrs. Frank or Magusiak, senior members of our management team or the required operational support at the store level in the future. We may experience an increase in food, labor and other operating costs. The performance of our stores is affected by changes in the costs for food products we purchase, including cheese, dough, chicken, and beef. The commodity prices for these food products vary throughout the year and may be affected by changes in demand, supply and other factors beyond our control. A material increase in our food costs could negatively affect our profit margins and adversely affect our financial results. A significant number of our store-level employees are subject to various minimum wage requirements. Several states and cities in which we operate stores have established a minimum wage higher than the federally mandated minimum wage. There may be similar increases implemented in other jurisdictions in which we operate or seek to operate. Changes in the minimum wage could increase our labor costs and may have an adverse effect on our profit margins and our financial results. 9 The performance of our stores is also adversely affected by increases in the price of utilities on which the stores depend, such as natural gas, whether as a result of inflation, shortages or interruptions in supply, or otherwise. Our business also incurs significant costs for and including among other things, insurance, marketing, taxes, real estate, borrowing and litigation, all of which could increase due to inflation, rising interest rates, changes in laws, competition, or other events beyond our control. Changes in consumers’ health, nutrition and dietary preferences could adversely affect our financial results. Our industry is affected by consumer preferences and perceptions. Changes in prevailing health or dietary preferences and perceptions may cause consumers to avoid certain products we offer in favor of alternative or healthier foods. If consumer eating habits change significantly and we are unable to respond with appropriate menu offerings, it could adversely affect our financial results. Public health issues may adversely affect our financial results. Our business may be impacted by certain public health issues including epidemics, pandemics and the rapid spread of certain illness and contagious diseases (e.g., H1N1 influenza A virus, commonly referred to as the “swine flu”). To the extent that our guests feel uncomfortable visiting public locations, particularly locations with a large number of children, due to a perceived risk of exposure to a public health issue, we could experience a reduction in guest traffic, which could adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to risks from disruption of our commodity distribution system. Any disruption in our commodity distribution system could adversely affect our financial results. We use a single vendor to distribute most of the products and supplies used in our stores. Any failure by this vendor to adequately distribute products or supplies to our stores could increase our costs and have a material adverse affect on our financial results and our operations. Our procurement of games and rides is dependent upon a few global providers. Our ability to continue to procure new games, rides and other entertainment-related equipment is important to our business strategy. The number of suppliers from which we can purchase games, rides and other entertainment-related equipment is limited due to industry consolidation over the past several years coupled with a lower overall global demand. To the extent that the number of suppliers continues to decline, we could be subject to the risk of distribution delays, pricing pressure, lack of innovation and other associated risks. Our business is highly seasonal and quarterly results may fluctuate significantly as a result of this seasonality. We have experienced, and in the future could experience, quarterly variations in revenues and profitability as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control, including the timing of school vacations, holidays and changing weather conditions. We typically generate higher sales volumes and profitability in the first and third quarters of each fiscal year compared to the second and fourth quarters. If there is a material decrease in the guest traffic in our stores during the first and third quarters of the year, our operating results will be adversely affected for that quarter and further, may have an adverse effect on our financial results for the fiscal year. Our stores may be adversely affected by local conditions, natural disasters and other events. Certain regions in which our stores are located may be subject to adverse local conditions, natural disasters and other events. If severe weather, such as heavy snowfall or extreme temperatures, discourages or restricts customers in a particular region from traveling to our stores, our sales could be adversely affected. If severe weather conditions occur during the first and third quarters of the year, the adverse impact to our sales and profitability could be even greater than at other times during the year because we generate a significant portion of our sales and profits during these periods. Natural disasters including tornadoes, hurricanes and earthquakes may damage our stores or other operations which may adversely affect the financial results of the Company. Additionally, demographic shifts in the areas where our stores are located could adversely impact our sales and results of operations. We are subject to risks in connection with owning and leasing real estate. As an owner and lessee of the land and/or building for our Company-owned stores, we are subject to all of the risks generally associated with owning and leasing real estate, including changes in the supply and demand for real estate in general and the supply and demand for the use of the stores. Any obligation to continue making rental payments with respect to leases for closed stores could adversely affect our financial results. We may not be able to adequately protect our trademarks or other proprietary rights. We own certain common law trademark rights and a number of federal and international trademark and service mark registrations and proprietary rights relating to our operations. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We, therefore, devote appropriate resources to the protection of our trademarks and proprietary rights. The protective actions that we take, however, may not be enough to prevent unauthorized usage or imitation by others, which could harm our image, brand or competitive position and, if we commence litigation to enforce our rights, we may incur significant 10 legal fees. We cannot be assured that third parties will not claim that our trademarks or menu offerings infringe upon their proprietary rights. Any such claim, whether or not it has merit, may result in costly litigation, cause delays in introducing new menu items in the future, interfere with our international development agreements or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. We are subject to various government regulations which may adversely affect our operations and financial performance. The development and operation of our stores are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations in many areas of our business, including, but not limited to, those that impose restrictions, levy a fee or tax, or require a permit or license, or other regulatory approval. Difficulties or failure in obtaining required permits, licenses or other regulatory approvals could delay or prevent the opening of a new store, and the suspension of, or inability to renew, a license or permit could interrupt operations at an existing store. We are also subject to laws governing our relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, health insurance mandates, working and safety conditions, immigration status requirements, and child labor laws. Additionally, potential changes in federal labor laws, including “card check” regulations, could result in portions of our workforce being subjected to greater organized labor influence. This could result in an increase to our labor costs. A significant portion of our store personnel are paid at rates related to the minimum wage established by federal, state and municipal law. Increases in such minimum wage result in higher labor costs, which may be partially offset by price increases and operational efficiencies. Additionally, we are subject to certain laws and regulations that govern our handling of customers’ personal information. A failure to protect the integrity and security of our customers’ personal information could expose us to litigation, as well as materially damage our reputation with our customers. While we endeavor to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, governmental and regulatory bodies may change such laws and regulations in the future, which may require us to incur substantial cost increases. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to various sanctions, and/or penalties and fines or may be required to cease operations until we achieve compliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and operations. We face litigation risks from customers, employees, franchisees and other third parties in the ordinary course of business. Our business is subject to the risk of litigation by customers, current and former employees, suppliers, stockholders or others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend future litigation may be significant. There may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation that could decrease customer acceptance of our food or entertainment offerings, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. We are continually subject to risks from litigation and regulatory action regarding advertising to our market of children between the ages of two and 12 years old. In addition, since certain of our stores serve alcoholic beverages, we are subject to “dram shop” statutes. These statutes generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Although we believe we are adequately covered by insurance, a judgment against us under a “dram shop” statute in excess of the liability covered could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under certain circumstances plaintiffs may file certain types of claims which may not be covered by insurance. In some cases, plaintiffs may seek punitive damages which may also not be covered by insurance. Any litigation we face could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks with respect to product liability claims and product recalls. We purchase merchandise from third-parties and offer this merchandise to customers in exchange for prize tickets or for sale. This merchandise could be subject to recalls and other actions by regulatory authorities. Changes in laws and regulations could also impact the type of merchandise we offer to our customers. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, issues that result in recalls of merchandise. In addition, individuals have asserted claims, and may in the future assert claims, that they have sustained injuries from third-party merchandise offered by us, and we may be subject to future lawsuits relating to these claims. There is a risk that these claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside of the scope of, our insurance coverage. Any of the issues mentioned above could result in damage to our reputation, diversion of development and management resources, or reduced sales and increased costs, any of which could harm our business. We are dependent on certain information technology systems and technologies which may be compromised. The operation of our business is dependent upon the integrity, security and successful functioning of our computer networks and information systems, including the point-of-sales systems in our stores, data centers that process transactions and various software applications used in our operations. Damage to, or interruption or failure of these systems could result in losses due to disruption of our business operations. These adverse situations could lead to loss of sales or profits or cause us to incur additional development costs. In addition, despite our efforts to secure our computer networks and information systems, security could be compromised or confidential information could be misappropriated resulting in a loss of customers’ personal information, negative publicity, harm to 11 our business and reputation or cause us to incur costs to reimburse third parties for damages. Unanticipated conditions in foreign markets may adversely affect our ability to operate effectively in those markets. In addition to our stores in the United States, we currently own or franchise stores in Canada, Puerto Rico, Guam, Guatemala, Chile, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. We and our franchisees are subject to the regulatory and economic and political conditions of any foreign market in which we and our franchisees operate stores. Any change in the laws and regulations and economic and political stability of these foreign markets may adversely affect our financial results. Changes in foreign markets that may affect our financial results include, but are not limited to, taxation, inflation, currency fluctuations, political instability, war, increased regulations and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. Additionally, our long-term growth strategy includes expanding into additional foreign markets in the future. To the extent unfavorable conditions exist in the foreign markets we plan to expand into, we and our international franchise partners may not be successful in opening the number of anticipated new stores on a timely and profitable basis. Delays or failures in opening new foreign market store locations could adversely affect our planned growth. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 12 