ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business If it is determined that our business practices violate state gaming laws or regulations, we could be subject to claims for damages, fines or other penalties and may be prohibited from accepting pari-mutuel wagers from these states in the future. We currently have licenses in the states of California, Idaho, Oregon and Washington to operate an ADW multi-jurisdictional wagering hub and/or to accept wagers from residents of such states. We also accept pari-mutuel wagers from subscribers in other states where existing state laws purport to prohibit or restrict our ability to accept pari-mutuel wagers from such states. However, we believe accepting such wagers is permitted pursuant to the Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978, as amended, state laws, and certain other laws and legal principles and doctrines, including those contained in the U.S. Constitution. However, state attorneys general and gaming regulators may interpret state gaming laws, the federal statutes and constitutional principles and doctrines in a narrower manner than we do. If a federal or state court were to adopt such a narrow interpretation of these laws, we may face criminal or civil damages, fines or other penalties and may be prohibited from accepting pari-mutuel wagers in one or more states in the future, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, if any proceedings were brought by governmental or private litigants who disagree with our interpretation of the applicable laws, the adverse publicity, cost of such litigation and diversion of management’s focus and time away from our business operations may have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we have received correspondence from various state governmental agencies inquiring into the legality of our business activities and, in certain circumstances, alleging our non-compliance with state gaming laws. To date, we have responded in a timely manner to all of these inquiries outlining our legal position, which we believe permits our business operations in such states. One or more of these state governmental agencies may not agree with our legal position or could institute proceedings against us that are intended to prohibit or restrict our business. -8- Furthermore, many states have considered and are considering interactive and Internet gaming legislation and regulations which may inhibit our ability to do business in such states, and anti-gaming conclusions and recommendations of other governmental or quasi-governmental bodies could form the basis for new laws, regulations and enforcement policies that could have a material adverse impact on our business. The extensive regulation by both state and federal authorities of gaming activities also can be significantly affected by changes in the political climate and changes in economic and regulatory policies. Such effects could be materially adverse to Youbet. If credit card companies, as a policy, refuse to process wagering account transactions due to perceived legal uncertainty surrounding online, live event wagering, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Credit card companies may in the future become hesitant to process deposits, fees and online transactions by our customers. This would limit the methods of payment available to our subscribers, reducing the convenience of our services and may make competitive services more attractive. This may adversely affect our business and our relationship with account wagering entities. In September 2005, Senator Jon Kyl circulated a proposed bill entitled “The Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2005,” which would bar credit card issuers and other financial institutions from transmitting money related to online wagering. However, the bill sets out a specific exemption for wagers that comply with the Interstate Horseracing Act. In November 2005, U.S. Representative Jim Leach introduced a similar bill in the House of Representatives. The Leach bill specifically exempts the Interstate Horse Racing Act of 1978 from its definition of “unlawful Internet gambling” and has been referred to the House Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit for consideration. U.S. Representative Goodlatte recently introduced a bill entitled “The Internet Gambling Prohibition Act,” which has been referred to the House Judiciary Committee for consideration. This bill also has a specific exemption from its coverage for the Interstate Horse Racing Act. There is no indication at this time that either the House or the Senate will act on any of these three bills, but if these bills are signed into law without an exception for legal pari-mutuel wagers placed on horse races, their passage would have a material adverse effect on our business. If the federal government or state governments impose taxes on wagers, our business or IRG’s business could be adversely affected. If one or more governmental authorities successfully asserts that we or IRG should collect taxes on wagers, it could adversely affect our business. Neither we nor IRG currently collect taxes for wagers. We and IRG pay all applicable taxes to the State of Oregon where one of our multi-state hubs resides and is currently regulated. However, one or more local, state or foreign jurisdictions may seek to tax online and Internet wagering when a subscriber is physically within their jurisdiction at the time the wager is placed. Such taxes, if imposed, would have a materially adverse effect on our business and IRG’s business. If our license and content agreement with TVG is terminated or is not renewed, and if we are not able to license such content directly from the track operators, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. TVG has formed exclusive relationships with a number of major U.S. horse tracks. Because of TVG’s exclusive relationship with certain horse tracks, in May 2001, we entered into a license and content agreement with TVG. Pursuant to this license and content agreement, we have a non-exclusive license to access the simulcast audio, video and data content, as well as the wagering pools, of these racetracks. If our agreement with TVG is terminated or is not renewed, and if we are not able to license such content directly from the track operators, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. An adverse ruling on one or more claims in our arbitration proceedings with TVG could adversely affect our liquidity and operating performance. -9- We are involved in arbitration proceedings with TVG to settle a dispute regarding the amount of license and transaction fees payable to TVG from April 1, 2002 through and including March 31, 2005 and certain other matters under our license and content agreement with TVG. On September 23, 2005, TVG filed a Demand for Arbitration with the American Arbitration Association in Delaware seeking monetary damages in the amount of approximately $5.8 million, plus interest, and declaratory relief. We intend to defend this action vigorously, and we also have asserted certain counterclaims and have sought declaratory relief under the license and content agreement. The outcome of the arbitration and counterclaims cannot be predicted at this time. If the arbitration resulted in an adverse ruling against us on one or more of TVG’s claims, our liquidity and future results of operations could be adversely affected. We face strong competition from the Television Games Network and others. We believe that our principal domestic competitor in the interactive, pari-mutuel gaming market is TVG, which operates an ADW website and the Television Games NetworkTM. The Television Games Network is a 24-hour national racing channel for distribution over cable and DIRECTV, along with an in-home pari-mutuel wagering system that requires a dedicated television set-top box. Further expansion of the Television Games Network’s product and expansion of exclusive relationships may make it difficult for us to grow our subscriber base and to obtain quality racing content. Additionally, if exclusive relationships account for a significant number of horse tracks, TVG may be able to secure relationships with additional horse tracks on more favorable terms than us. We compete with several other companies, including America Tab, doing business as Win Ticket, XpressbetTM, a division of Magna, and the Racing Channel, doing business as Oneclickbetting.com. Worldwide, numerous Internet and other interactive ventures have been announced. We expect to compete with these entities, as well as other established companies which may enter the interactive, pari-mutuel gaming market. It is possible that our current and potential competitors may have greater resources than us. In addition, our license and content agreement with TVG purportedly grants TVG a royalty-free and non-exclusive license to use or sublicense any assignable patents, utility models or other patent rights, as well as any applications, provisional applications and continuations of such rights, owned or acquired during the term of the agreement by Youbet or its affiliates. If TVG were to successfully bring an action to the effect that the intent of the agreement covered assignable patents not integral to providing online ADW services, we could face additional competition and not fully realize the benefits of such acquired patents. Any of the foregoing actions initiated by TVG could be time consuming and divert our attention and resources. If, in response to allegations brought before the WTO, the U.S. government amends existing laws to exempt foreign providers of online gambling from, or restricts domestic service providers, our business could be adversely affected. On April 7, 2005, the Appellate Body of the WTO circulated its report in a dispute settlement proceeding brought by the Government of Antigua challenging certain U.S. measures affecting the cross-border supply of gambling and betting services in violation of certain U.S. obligations under GATS. In relevant part, Antigua argued that the U.S. was discriminating between domestic and foreign remote suppliers of wagering services because the Interstate Horseracing Act purports to exempt domestic service suppliers, like Youbet, from the prohibitions of the Wire Act, the Travel Act and the Illegal Gambling Business Act, but does not exempt foreign services suppliers. The WTO found in favor of Antigua, and the U.S. was requested to bring its measures into conformity with its obligations under the GATS. Pursuant to WTO dispute settlement procedures, at a meeting of the DSB on May 18, 2005, the U.S. Government informed the DSB that it intends to comply with the rulings and recommendations of the WTO. While the WTO decision does not affect any existing federal or state law, we cannot predict what actions, if any, the U.S. government will take in response to the request of the WTO in light of the Appellate Body report and what affect, if any, the Appellate Body report will have on our business and operations. If we are unable to retain our relationships with our content providers, our business could be adversely affected. We are dependent upon a limited number of suppliers for the majority of our content, and if any one of those suppliers were to cancel its relationship with us, our business would be adversely affected. Recently, TVG filed a -10- Demand for Arbitration against us with the American Arbitration Association alleging certain underpayments by us and certain breaches by us of our license agreement with TVG. In addition, our right to simulcast and accept wagers on races at a number of the most recognized tracks and races, including The Preakness, one of horse racing’s Triple Crown races, is dependent on our license agreement with Magna, which currently is subject to a one-year agreement expiring December 25, 2006. The cancellation or non-renewal of our license agreements with these content providers or the cancellation or non-renewal of our agreements with a number of our other content providers would adversely affect our business. If we or IRG are unable to retain our core customer base or if we or IRG fail to attract new customers, our business or IRG’s business could be adversely affected. Our sophisticated data mining software generates detailed customer segmentation analyses based on variables such as wagering propensities and preferences, which allows us to personalize our product offerings through targeted special offers tailored to specific customer segments. We believe that these techniques help us to retain our best customers. In addition, our marketing relationships with ESPN.com, CBS SportsLine.com, the Daily Racing Form and others help us attract new customers. If we or IRG are unable to retain our core customer base through robust content offerings and other popular features, if we or IRG lose customers to our competitors or if we or IRG fail to attract new customers, our business and IRG’s business would fail to grow or could be adversely affected. The integration of acquired businesses, including IRG and United Tote, may result in substantial costs, delays and other problems. Our future performance will depend on our ability to integrate the businesses that we acquire, including IRG, which we acquired in June 2005, and United Tote, which we acquired in February 2006. To integrate newly acquired businesses, including IRG and United Tote, we must integrate wagering operations and extend our financial and management controls (such as compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002) and operating, administrative and information systems in a timely manner and on satisfactory terms and conditions. We may not be able to successfully integrate these and other acquired businesses or realize projected cost savings and synergies in connection with those acquisitions on the timetable contemplated or at all. Furthermore, the costs of integrating IRG and United Tote could significantly impact our short-term operating results. These costs could include: • restructuring charges associated with the acquisitions; and • non-recurring acquisition costs, including accounting and legal fees, recognition of transaction-related obligations and various other acquisition-related costs. The integration of newly acquired businesses will require the expenditure of substantial managerial, operating, financial and other resources and may also lead to a diversion of management’s attention from our ongoing business concerns. Although we perform diligence on the businesses we purchase, in light of the circumstances of each transaction, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding the actual condition of these businesses. We may not be able to ascertain the value or understand the potential liabilities of the acquired businesses and their operations until we assume operating control of the assets and operations of these businesses. Once we acquire a business, we are faced with risks, including: • the possibility that we have acquired substantial undisclosed liabilities; • further regulatory approvals; • the risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; • the potential loss of key employees or customers; and -11- • the possibility that we may be unable to retain key employees or to recruit additional managers with the necessary skills to supplement the management of the acquired businesses. If we are unsuccessful in overcoming these risks, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. System failures or damage from earthquakes, fires, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins or other unforeseen events could harm our business. Our business is dependent upon our communications hardware and our computer hardware, substantially all of which are located at a leased facility in Woodland Hills, California. We have built certain redundancies into our systems to avoid downtime in the event of outages, system failures or damage, but we do not have duplicate geographic locations for our site of operations. Thus, our systems remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, hardware or software error, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, and similar events. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Any unscheduled interruption in the availability of our website and our services results in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenues. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential users to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid our site, and could permanently harm our reputation and brand. These interruptions also increase the burden on our engineering staff, which, in turn, could delay our introduction of new features and services on our website. We have property and business interruption insurance covering damage or interruption of our systems. However, this insurance might not be sufficient to compensate us for all losses that may occur. We may not be able to respond to rapid technological changes in a timely manner, which may cause customer dissatisfaction. The gaming sector is characterized by the rapid development of new technologies and continuous introduction of new products. Our main technological advantage versus potential competitors is our software lead-time in the market and our experience in operating an Internet-based wagering network. However, we may not be able to maintain our competitive technological position against current and potential competitors, especially those with greater financial resources. Our success is dependent upon new product development and technological advancements, including the development of new wagering platforms. While we expend a significant amount of resources on research and development and product enhancement, we may not be able to continue to improve and market our existing products or technologies or develop and market new products in a timely manner. Further technological developments may cause our products or technologies to become obsolete or noncompetitive. If we were to lose the services of Charles Champion, Gary Sproule or other key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our future success depends in a large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. Our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer are critical to the overall management of Youbet as well as the development of our technology, our culture and our strategic direction. While our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer are parties to employment agreements with Youbet, neither of these agreements prohibits the executive from terminating their employment agreement. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing and customer service personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may not be able to retain and attract such employees. Our operating results and those of IRG fluctuate seasonally and may be adversely impacted by a reduction in live racing dates due to regulatory factors. We and IRG experience significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to the seasonality associated with the racing schedules. Generally, revenues are greater in the second and third quarters of the calendar year. We and IRG carry a limited number of live racing dates and the number of live racing dates varies somewhat from year to -12- year. The allocation of live racing dates in most of the jurisdictions is subject to regulatory approval from year to year and, in any given year, there may not be the same or more racing dates than in prior years. A significant decrease in the number of live racing dates would reduce our revenues and those of IRG and cause business to suffer. If the horse racing tracks that we or IRG carry experience unfavorable weather, it may cause races to be cancelled which would reduce our revenues and those of IRG and cause business to suffer. Because horse racing is conducted outdoors, unfavorable weather conditions, including extremely high or low temperatures, excessive precipitation, storms or hurricanes, may cause races to be cancelled. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2005, due largely to inclement weather, we carried 300 fewer races at predominantly premier tracks, than in the fourth quarter of 2004. Because a substantial portion of our operating expenses is fixed, a reduction in the number of races held or in the number of horses racing due to unfavorable weather would reduce our revenues and those of IRG and cause business to suffer. A horse racing industry controversy could cause a decline in bettor confidence and result in changes to legislation, regulation or industry practices, which could materially reduce the amount wagered on horse racing and increase our costs, and therefore, adversely affect our revenue and operating results. A horse racing industry controversy could cause a decline in bettor confidence and result in changes to legislation, regulation or industry practices. For example, on October 26, 2002, in connection with the Breeders’ Cup World Thoroughbred Championships held at Arlington Park in Chicago, Illinois, only one person placed winning bets on the Pick 6, a bet to pick the winning horse in six consecutive races. The bettor purchased all six winning tickets, valued at more than $2.5 million, through an off-track betting telephone system. Payment of the winnings was withheld when an examination of the winning bets revealed an unusual betting pattern. Scientific Games Corporation, the parent company of Autotote Systems, Inc., later announced that it had fired an employee who had allegedly accessed the totalisator system operated by Autotote Systems, altered the winning Pick 6 tickets, and erased the record of his access. The Federal Bureau of Investigation conducted an investigation, and three individuals pleaded guilty in federal court to conspiring to commit fraud and money laundering. Industry controversy, like the Pick 6 matter, could result in a perceived lack of integrity or security, a decline in bettor confidence, and likely lead to a decline in the amount wagered on horse racing. Any such controversy could lead to changes in legislation, regulation or industry practices, which could result in a material reduction in the amount wagered on horse racing and in the revenue and earnings of companies in the horse racing industry, including us. If our systems and controls are unable to handle online security risks, our business will be adversely affected. We use packet filters, firewalls and proxy servers which are all designed to control and filter the data allowed to enter our data center. However, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments may make it easier for someone to compromise or breach the technology we use to protect our subscribers’ transaction data. If such a breach of security were to occur, it could cause interruptions in service and loss of data or cessation in service to our subscribers. This may also allow someone to introduce a “virus” or other harmful component to Youbet causing an interruption or malfunction. To the extent our activities involve the storage and transmission of information such as credit card numbers, security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Our insurance policies might not be sufficient to reimburse us for losses caused by such security breaches. Risks Related to Our Acquisition of United Tote United Tote’s totalisator business is dependent on its relationships with its track and other partners for a substantial portion of its revenue. The loss of all or a portion of these relationships could result in the failure of Youbet to realize the expected level of revenue from its acquisition of United Tote. United Tote has contracts to provide totalisator services to approximately 110 tracks and other sporting venues that accept wagers, such as Jai Lai. As a result, the success of our acquisition of United Tote depends, in part, on our ability to maintain successful relationships with United Tote’s contract partners. Should these contract partners -13- decide to discontinue purchasing totalisator services from United Tote, Youbet will fail to realize the expected increase in revenue from its acquisition of United Tote. United Tote’s totalisator business is dependent on the total amount of wagers placed with its track partners. United Tote’s contracts provide that it will receive a percentage of the pari-mutuel wagering pools for which it provides totalisator services. As the amount of pari-mutuel pools increase, United Tote’s revenues increase. Accordingly, a decrease in wagers placed at one or more of United Tote’s contract partners could cause a decline in United Tote’s and, in turn, our consolidated revenue as the owner of United Tote. Further, any material reduction by any one of United Tote’s contract partners in its level of commitment of resources, funding, personnel, and interest in continued development of horse racing or other wagering-based businesses could cause a decline in wagering and United Tote’s and our consolidated revenue. United Tote’s totalisator business is dependent upon leading with and responding to technological changes. United Tote’s success is dependent upon new product development and technological advancements, including the development of more advanced wagering terminals. While United Tote devotes resources to research and development and product enhancement, they may not be able to continue to improve and market existing products or technologies or successfully develop and market new products in a timely manner. Further technological developments by competitors may cause United Tote products or technologies to become obsolete or noncompetitive. If we were to lose certain key United Tote employees during our integration of United Tote, our business would likely be adversely affected. Our future success may depend upon maintaining the continued service of certain of United Tote’s key management team and employees. The members of United Tote’s senior management may be critical to our ability to foster a relationship with United Tote’s customers, to integrate United Tote into our operations and to continue the success of United Tote. In addition, the development and manufacturing of United Tote’s products and computer systems requires highly skilled employees whose knowledge of those products and systems is integral to United Tote’s success. If we were to lose certain of United Tote’s highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing and customer service personnel, our business would be adversely affected. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock The share price of our common stock may be volatile and could decline substantially. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of issues, including broad market factors that may have a material adverse impact on our stock price, regardless of actual performance. These factors include: • periodic variations in the actual or anticipated financial results of our business or that of our competitors; • downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates of our future operating results or of the future operating results of our competitors; • material announcements by us or our competitors; • public sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock; and • adverse changes in general market conditions or economic trends or in conditions or trends in the markets in which we operate. Under the UT Group stockholder rights agreement, we agreed to a make-whole provision pursuant to which we will pay to UT Group a one-time cash payment equal to the amount by which $5.50 exceeds the average trading price of our common stock for the five trading-day period ending on February 9, 2007, multiplied by the number of shares -14- delivered by us and then held by UT Group. If the price of our common stock were to decline and UT Group does not sell all or a substantial portion of their Youbet shares prior to February 9, 2007, we could be required to make a substantial payment to UT Group under this “make whole” provision. If our quarterly results are below the expectations of securities market analysts and investors, the price of our common stock may decline. Many factors, including those described under this Item, can affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which makes the prediction of our financial results difficult. These factors include: • changes in market conditions that can affect the demand for horse race wagering; • general economic conditions that affect the availability of disposable income among consumers; and • the actions of our competitors. If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of securities market analysts and investors due to these or other risks, securities analysts may downgrade our common stock and some of our stockholders may sell their shares, which could adversely affect the trading prices of our common stock. We have the ability to issue additional equity securities, which would lead to dilution of our issued and outstanding common stock. The issuance of additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities would result in dilution of then-existing stockholders’ equity interests in us. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue, without vote or action of stockholders, up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series, and has the ability to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of any such series. Any such series of preferred stock could contain dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences or other rights superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. If we issue convertible preferred stock, a subsequent conversion may dilute the current common stockholders’ interest. Our Board of Directors has no present intention of issuing any such preferred stock, but reserves the right to do so in the future. In addition, we may issue up to 64,366,373 shares of common stock that are authorized but not issued, and as of December 31, 2005, 3,617,943 of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock in the aggregate were issuable upon the exercise of vested options and outstanding warrants. We do not intend to pay cash dividends. As a result, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never paid a cash dividend on our common stock, and we do not plan to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance our operations and further expansion and growth of our business, including acquisitions. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. We cannot guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 