D. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this document, prospective investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making any investment decisions. The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and results of operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to our Business A material portion of our operations and investments are located in Latin America, and we are therefore exposed to risks inherent in operating and investing in Latin America. At December 31, 2006, approximately 33.3% of our assets were located in Latin America. In addition, approximately 34.7% of our revenues from operations for 2006 were derived from our Latin American operations. Our operations and investments in Latin America (including the revenues generated by these operations, their market value and the dividends and management fees expected to be received from them) are subject to various risks, including risks related to the following: • government regulations and administrative policies may change quickly; • currencies may be devalued or may depreciate or currency restrictions and other restraints on transfer of funds may be imposed; • the effects of inflation and currency depreciation may require certain of our subsidiaries to undertake a mandatory recapitalization or commence dissolution proceedings; • governments may expropriate or nationalize assets; • governments may impose burdensome taxes or tariffs; • political changes may lead to changes in the business environments in which we operate; • our operations are dependent on concessions and other agreements with existing governments; and • economic downturns, political instability and civil disturbances may negatively affect our operations. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange and interest rate risk. We are exposed to various types of market risk in the normal course of our business, including the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as well as the impact of changes in interest rates. We employ risk management strategies to manage this exposure, in part through the use of financial derivatives such as foreign 8 Table of Contents currency forwards, currency swap agreements and interest rate swap agreements. If the financial derivatives market is not sufficiently liquid for our risk management purposes, or if we cannot enter into arrangements of the type and for the amounts necessary to limit our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations, such failure could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Also, our other risk management strategies may not be successful, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For a more detailed description of our financial derivatives transactions, see “Item 11—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Failure to generate sufficient cash flow and higher capital expenditure requirements could make us more dependent on external financing. If we are unable to obtain financing, our business may be adversely affected. The operation, expansion and upgrading of our networks, as well as the marketing and distribution of our services and products, require substantial financing. Moreover, our liquidity and capital resource requirements may increase if we participate in other fixed line or wireless license award processes or make acquisitions. We also have major capital resource requirements relating to, among other things, the development of distribution channels in new countries of operations and the development and implementation of new technologies. During the last 3 years we expanded our business through the acquisition of several companies. We have financed those acquisitions with debt and, thus, we have significantly increased our debt levels and our leverage ratios are relatively high. As a consequence of this increase in our leverage ratios, we have suffered downgrades in our ratings by the rating agencies. If our ability to generate cash flow were to decrease, we might need to incur a significant amount of additional debt to support our liquidity and capital resources requirements for the ongoing development and expansion of our business. Increasing our leverage could affect our creditworthiness and we may suffer additional downgrades in our ratings by the rating agencies. A further deterioration in our ratings could limit or make more difficult and expensive our access to the capital markets to raise funds and restrict our ability to operate our business or to refinance our debt, if needed, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to raise capital is also related to our stock price and the liquidity of the capital markets. Adverse trends in these areas could prevent us from raising capital. If we have insufficient internal cash flow or we are unable to borrow the amounts we need at affordable rates or we cannot raise capital, we may be unable to pursue our business plans, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For a more detailed description of our liquidity risk management, see “Item 11—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We endeavor to implement our business plan successfully, but factors beyond our control may prevent us from doing so, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to increase our revenues and maintain our position as a leading European and Latin American provider of advanced telecommunications and Internet services will depend in large part on the successful, timely and cost-effective implementation of our business plan. Factors beyond our control that could affect the implementation and completion of our business plan include: • difficulties in developing and introducing new technologies; • difficulties in obtaining the expected benefits from investment in networks and new technology; • difficulties in obtaining additional and/or well managed spectrum capacity; • declining prices for some of our services; • the effect of increased competition; • the effect of adverse economic trends in our principal markets; • the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations on our results of operations; • difficulties in obtaining applicable government, shareholder and other approvals; 9 Table of Contents • difficulties in entering into key contracts with third parties; • our ability to establish and maintain strategic relationships; • difficulties in achieving the expected benefits from scale across the Group’s operating companies and from the integrated management of fixed and mobile operations in every country; • difficulties in integrating our acquired businesses; • the effect of future acquisitions on our financial condition and results of operations; • difficulties in securing the timely performance of independent contractors hired to engineer, design and construct portions of our network; • the potential lack of attractive investment targets; • difficulties in attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified personnel; • changes in regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof and other possible regulatory actions; and • the effect of unanticipated network interruptions. The development of our business could be hindered if we fail to maintain satisfactory working relationships with our partners. Some of our operations are conducted through joint ventures in which we own a significant, but less than controlling, ownership interest. For example, Brasilcel in Brazil, which is jointly controlled by Telefónica and Portugal Telecom, is conducted through a joint venture. As a result of our less than controlling interest in these joint ventures, our company does not have absolute control over the operations of the venture. In addition, in some cases where we own a majority of the joint venture, we may be subject to provisions in shareholders’ agreements restricting our ability to control the joint venture. The relevant corporate governance provisions vary from joint venture to joint venture and often depend upon the size of our investment relative to that of the other investors, our experience as a telecommunications operator in the relevant jurisdiction compared to that of the other investors and the preference or requirement of foreign governments that local owners hold an interest in licensed telecommunications operators. As a result, in these cases we must generally obtain the cooperation of our partners in order to implement and expand upon our business strategies and to finance and manage our operations. The risk of disagreement or deadlock is inherent in jointly controlled entities, and there is the risk that decisions against our interests will be made and that we may not realize the expected benefits from our joint ventures, including economies of scale and opportunities to achieve potential synergies and cost savings. In addition, our joint venture partners may choose not to continue their partnerships with us. Moreover, changes in control of our partners could affect our relationships with them and the management of the joint ventures. The costs and difficulties of acquiring and integrating businesses could impede our future growth, adversely affect our competitiveness and adversely affect our results of operations. We have recently consummated, acquisition transactions in order to, among other things, provide services in countries in which we do not currently have operations, take advantage of growth opportunities or enhance our product portfolio in a market where we currently have operations. Our latest acquisitions include the acquisition of BellSouth’s wireless operations in Latin America; the acquisition of Cesky Telecom (recently renamed as Telefónica O2 Czech Republic); the acquisition of O2 in January 2006 and the acquisition in April 2006 of 50% plus one share of Colombia Telecom (recently renamed as Telefónica Telecom). We may make additional acquisitions in the future. These and our future acquisitions may expose us to certain risks, including the following: 10 Table of Contents • the difficulty of assimilating the operations, information technology systems and personnel of the acquired entities; • the potential disruption to our ongoing business caused by senior management’s focus on the acquisition; • our failure to incorporate successfully licensed or acquired technology into our network and product offerings; • the expected cost savings and any other synergies from an acquisition may take longer to realize than expected or may not be fully realized; • the failure to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and • the impairment of relationships with employees as a result of changes in management and ownership. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming these risks, and our failure to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Risks Relating to our Industry We face intense competition in most of our markets, which could result in decreases in current and potential customers, revenues and profitability. We face significant competition in all of the markets in which we operate, and we are therefore subject to the effects of actions by our competitors in these markets. Our competitors could: • offer lower prices, more attractive discount plans or better services and features; • develop and deploy more rapidly new or improved technologies, services and products; • bundle offerings of one type of service with others; • in the case of the wireless industry, subsidize handset procurement; or • expand and enhance their networks more rapidly. Furthermore, some of our competitors in certain markets have, and some potential competitors may enjoy, competitive advantages, including the following: • greater name recognition; • greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources; • larger customer bases; and • well-established relationships with current and potential customers. To compete effectively with our competitors, we will need to successfully market our services and anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the relevant markets, such as the introduction of new products and services by our competitors, pricing strategies adopted by our competitors, changes in consumer preferences and general economic, political and social conditions. If we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors, it could result in price reductions, lower revenues, under-utilization of our services, reduced operating margins and loss of market share. We operate in a highly regulated industry, which could adversely affect our businesses. As a multinational telecommunications company, we are subject to different laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we provide services. Furthermore, the licensing, construction, operation and interconnection 11 Table of Contents arrangements of our communications systems are regulated to varying degrees by national, state, regional, local and supranational authorities, such as the European Union. Furthermore, we are subject to strict regulation in many of the countries and the market segments in which we operate, particularly in many areas of the fixed-line network business. The regulatory authorities to which we are subject regularly intervene in the offering and pricings of our products and services. They could also adopt regulations or take other actions that could adversely affect us, including revocation of or failure to renew any of our licenses, authorizations or concessions to offer services in a particular market, changes in the regulation of international roaming prices and mobile termination rates, introduction of virtual mobile operators, regulation of mobile data services and regulation of the virtual local loop. Such regulatory actions could place significant competitive and pricing pressure on our operations, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory policies applicable in many of the countries in which we operate generally favor increased competition in most of our market segments, especially in the fixed line, broadband and wireless service industries, including by granting new licenses in existing licensed territories in order to permit the entry of new competitors or through the imposition of special rules and obligations to those operations that are said to have a dominant position or significant market power in a certain market. These regulatory policies are likely to have the effect, over time, of reducing our market share in the relevant markets in which we operate. In addition, because we a hold leading market share in many of the countries in which we operate, we could face regulatory actions by national or, in Europe, European Union antitrust or competition authorities if it is determined that we have prevented, restricted or distorted competition. These authorities could prohibit us from making further acquisitions or continuing to engage in particular practices or impose fines or other penalties on us, which, if significant, could harm our financial performance and future growth. Finally, it is also possible that services not previously regulated will be subject to future regulation, such as international roaming or voice over Internet protocol (VoIP) services, or that new regulatory requirements will be imposed on us, such as the new EU-wide regime of data retention requirements for law enforcement purposes or possible new regulatory initiatives in the area of mobile telecommunications. For a complete description of the regulatory proceedings we currently face, see “Item 8—Financial Information—Legal Proceedings”. We operate under license and concession contracts. Most of our operating companies require licenses, authorizations or concessions from the governmental authorities of the countries in which they operate. These licenses, authorizations and concessions specify the types of services permitted to be offered by our operating companies. The continued existence and terms of our licenses, authorizations and concessions are subject to review by regulatory authorities in each country and to interpretation, modification or termination by these authorities. The terms of these licenses granted to our operating companies and conditions of the license renewal vary from country to country. Although license renewal is not usually guaranteed, most licenses do address the renewal process and terms. As licenses approach the end of their terms, we intend to pursue their renewal as provided by each of the license agreements. Many of these licenses, authorizations and concessions are revocable for public interest reasons. The rules of some of the regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our operating companies require us to meet specified network build-out requirements and schedules. In particular, our existing licenses, authorizations and concessions typically require that we satisfy certain obligations, including minimum specified quality, service and coverage conditions and capital investment. Failure to comply with these obligations could result in the imposition of fines or revocation or forfeiture of the license for the relevant area. In addition, the need to meet scheduled deadlines may require our companies to expend more resources than otherwise budgeted for a particular network build-out. 12 Table of Contents The industry in which we operate is subject to rapid technological changes, which requires us to continuously adapt to such changes and to upgrade our existing networks. If we are unable to adapt to such changes, our ability to provide competitive services could be materially adversely affected. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt in a timely manner to technological changes. We expect that new products and technologies will emerge and that existing products and technologies will further develop. These new products and technologies may reduce the prices for our services or they may be superior to, and render obsolete, the products and services we offer and the technologies we use, and may consequently reduce the revenues generated by our products and services and require investment in new technology. In addition, we may be subject to competition in the future from other companies that are not subject to regulation as a result of the convergence of telecommunications technologies. As a result, it may be very expensive for us to upgrade our products and technology in order to continue to compete effectively with new or existing competitors. Such increased costs could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, we must continue to upgrade our existing wireless and fixed line networks in a timely and satisfactory manner in order to retain and expand our customer base in each of our markets, to enhance our financial performance and to satisfy regulatory requirements. Among other things, we could be required to upgrade the functionality of our networks to permit increased customization of services, increase coverage in some of our markets, or expand and maintain customer service, network management and administrative systems. Many of these tasks are not entirely under our control and may be affected by applicable regulations. If we fail to execute these tasks successfully, our services and products may be less attractive to new customers and we may lose existing customers to our competitors, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Spectrum capacity may become a limiting factor. Our wireless operations in a number of countries may rely on our ability to acquire additional spectrum. The failure to obtain sufficient capacity and spectrum coverage would have a material adverse impact on the quality of our services and our ability to provide new services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our business could be adversely affected if our suppliers fail to provide necessary equipment and services on a timely basis. We depend upon a small number of major suppliers for essential products and services, mainly network infrastructure. These suppliers may, among other things, extend delivery times, raise prices and limit supply due to their own shortages and business requirements. If these suppliers fail to deliver products and services on a timely basis, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Similarly, interruptions in the supply of telecommunications equipment for our networks could impede network development and expansion, which in some cases could adversely affect our ability to satisfy our license requirements. We may be adversely affected by unanticipated network interruptions. Unanticipated network interruptions as a result of system failures whether accidental or otherwise, including due to network, hardware or software failures, which affect the quality of or cause an interruption in our service, could result in customer dissatisfaction, reduced revenues and traffic and costly repairs and could harm our reputation. We attempt to mitigate these risks through a number of measures, including backup systems and protective systems such as firewalls, virus scanners and building security. However, these measures are not effective under all circumstances and cannot avert every action or event that could damage or disrupt our technical infrastructure. Although we carry business interruption insurance, our insurance policy may not provide coverage in amounts sufficient to compensate us for any losses we incur. 13 Table of Contents The wireless industry may be harmed by reports suggesting that radio frequency emissions cause health problems. Media and other reports have suggested that radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets and base stations may cause health problems. If consumers harbor health-related concerns, they may be discouraged from using wireless handsets. While we are not aware that such health risks have been substantiated, there can be no assurance that these concerns could have an adverse effect on the wireless communications industry and, possibly, expose wireless providers, including us, to litigation. Even if the authorized health institutions confirm there is no scientific evidence of adverse health effects, we cannot assure you that further medical research and studies will refute a link between the radio frequency emissions of wireless handsets and base stations and these health concerns. Moreover, whether or nor such research or studies conclude there is a link between radio-frequency emissions and health, popular concerns about radio-frequency emissions may discourage the use of wireless communication devices and may result in significant restrictions on both the location and operation of cell sites, either or both of which could have a material adverse effect on our wireless companies. In fact, a number of government authorities, including those in Spain, have already increased regulation of wireless handsets and base stations as a result of these health concerns, and our wireless companies are subject to compliance with these standards and regulatory requirements and potential litigation relating to these health concerns which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Developments in the telecommunications sector have resulted, and may in the future result, in substantial write-downs of the carrying value of certain of our assets. We review on a annual basis, or more frequently where the circumstances require, the value of each of our assets and subsidiaries, to asses whether those carrying values can be supported by the future cash flows expected to be derived from such assets. Whenever we consider that due to changes in the economic, regulatory, business or political environment, our goodwill, intangible assets or fixed assets may be impaired, we consider the necessity of performing certain valuation tests, which may result in impairment charges. The recognition of impairments of tangible, intangible and financial assets results in a non-cash charge on the income statement, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For more information, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Estimates”. Other Risks We are involved in disputes and litigation with regulators, competitors and third parties. We are party to lawsuits and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of our business, the final outcome of which is generally uncertain. An adverse outcome in, or any settlement of, these or other lawsuits (including any that may be asserted in the future) could result in significant costs to us. Such disputes and litigation may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For a more detailed description of current lawsuits, see “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings”. 