D. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, prospective investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making any investment decisions. The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and results of operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to our Business We endeavor to implement our business plans successfully, but factors beyond our control may prevent us from doing so, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to increase our revenues and maintain our position as a leading European and Latin American provider of advanced telecommunications and Internet services will depend in large part on the successful, timely and cost-effective implementation of our business plans. Factors beyond our control that could affect the implementation and completion of our business plan include: difficulties in developing and introducing new technologies; declining prices for some of our services; the effect of increased competition; the effect of adverse economic trends in our principal markets; the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations on our results of operations; difficulties in obtaining applicable government, shareholder and other approvals; difficulties in entering into key contracts with third parties; our ability to establish and maintain strategic relationships; difficulties in integrating our acquired businesses; the effect of future acquisitions on our financial condition and results of operations; difficulties in securing the timely performance of independent contractors hired to engineer, design and construct portions of our network; the potential lack of attractive investment targets; difficulties in attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified personnel; 9 changes in regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof and other possible regulatory actions; and the effect of unanticipated network interruptions. A material portion of our foreign operations and investments is located in Latin America, and we are therefore exposed to risks inherent in operating and investing in Latin America. At December 31, 2005, approximately 51.2% of our assets were located in Latin America. In addition, approximately 41.5% of our revenue from operations for 2005 was derived from our Latin American operations. Our foreign operations and investments in Latin America are subject to various risks, including risks related to the following: government regulations and administrative policies may change quickly; currencies may be devalued or may depreciate or currency restrictions and other restraints on transfer of funds may be imposed; The effects of inflation and currency depreciation may require certain of our subsidiaries to undertake a mandatory recapitalization or commence dissolution proceedings; governments may expropriate assets; governments may impose burdensome taxes or tariffs; political changes may lead to changes in the business environments in which we operate; our operations are dependent on concessions and other agreements with existing governments; and economic downturns, political instability and civil disturbances may negatively affect our operations. In addition, revenues from operations of our Latin American subsidiaries, their market value and the dividends and management fees expected to be received from them are exposed to material country risk as a result of adverse economic conditions in the region that may adversely affect demand, consumption and exchange rates. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange and interest rate risk. We are exposed to various types of market risk in the normal course of our business, including the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as well as the impact of changes in interest rates. We employ risk management strategies to manage this exposure, in part through the use of financial derivatives such as foreign currency forwards, currency swap agreements and interest rate swap agreements. In particular, in order to limit our exposure to Latin American currency exchange rate fluctuations, we use financial derivatives and other instruments. We also use derivatives and funding in foreign currencies in order to hedge our exposure to the Czech crown and the British pound, following our acquisitions of Cesky Telecom and O2, respectively. If the financial derivatives market is not sufficiently liquid for our risk management purposes, or if we cannot enter into arrangements of the type and for the amounts necessary to limit our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations, such failure could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Also, our other risk management strategies may not be successful, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For a more detailed description of our financial derivatives transactions, see “Item 11—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We are exposed to increased liquidity and solvency risks following our acquisition of O2, thereby increasing our vulnerability to capital markets and business downturns, and reducing our strategic flexibility. 10 We financed our entire acquisition cost of O2 with £17.9 billion (approximately €26.4 billion calculated based on a euro-pound exchange rate of €1.47 = 1.00 on October 31, 2005) of debt incurred under a credit facility. As a result, our leverage has increased, and our credit ratings have decreased following recent downgradings by the credit rating agencies. The credit facility has two tranches: one of which has a one-year maturity, which may be extended to two years and to two and a half years (with respect to 50% of the amount of such tranche); and the other which has a three-year maturity. Accordingly, we will be obligated to repay the entire principal amount of such debt within such period, unless we are able to refinance such debt with longer term debt. Although we have refinanced a portion of our outstanding borrowings under the credit facility through the issuance in January 2006 of approximately £4 billion aggregate principal amount of long-term bonds that mature in 2011, 2016, 2018 and 2026, we continue to have substantial refinancing needs. As of April 6, 2006, £14.175 billion (approximately €20.2 billion calculated based on a euro-pound exchange rate of €0.70060 = 1.00 on April 5, 2006) was outstanding under these credit facilities. If our business performance deteriorates significantly, we may not be able to repay the debt maturing in the next three years with generated free cash flow plus other committed credit lines, or issue long-term debt in an amount sufficient to refinance our outstanding debt as it matures. Additional credit ratings downgrades by the credit ratings agencies could limit substantially our ability to borrow long term debt in the capital markets and thus make it more difficult to refinance the outstanding amount under the facility or increase significantly our cost of funding. Our goal to reduce our leverage over the coming years may diminish our ability to face competitive threats, take advantage of attractive acquisition opportunities or follow a strategy requiring substantial cash consumption. If our leverage reduction goal is not met, our lenders could seek to reduce their loans to us and may refrain from granting further credit. For a more detailed description of our liquidity risk, see “Item 11—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”. The development of our business could be hindered if we fail to maintain satisfactory working relationships with our partners. Some of our operations are conducted through joint ventures in which we own a significant, but less than controlling, ownership interest. For example, Brasilcel in Brazil, which is jointly controlled by Telefónica Móviles and Portugal Telecom, is conducted through a joint venture. As a result of our less than controlling interest in these joint ventures, our company does not have absolute control over the operations of the venture. In addition, in some cases where we own a majority of the joint venture, we may be subject to provisions in shareholders’ agreements restricting our ability to control the joint venture. The relevant corporate governance provisions vary from joint venture to joint venture and often depend upon the size of our investment relative to that of the other investors, our experience as a telecommunications operator in the relevant jurisdiction compared to that of the other investors and the preference or requirement of foreign governments that local owners hold an interest in licensed telecommunications operators. As a result, in these cases we must generally obtain the cooperation of our partners in order to implement and expand upon our business strategies and to finance and manage our operations. The risk of disagreement or deadlock is inherent in jointly controlled entities, and there is the risk that decisions against our interests will be made and that we may not realize the expected benefits from our joint ventures, including economies of scale and opportunities to realize potential synergies and cost savings. In addition, our joint venture partners may choose not to continue their partnerships with us. Moreover, changes in control of our partners could affect our relationships with them and the management of the joint ventures. The costs and difficulties of acquiring and integrating businesses could impede our future growth, adversely affect our competitiveness and adversely affect our results of operations. We may enter into, and have recently consummated, acquisition transactions in order to, among other things, provide services in countries in which we do not currently have operations, take advantage of growth opportunities or enhance our product portfolio in a market where we currently have operations, as we have recently done. Such recent acquisitions include: Telefónica Móviles’ acquisition of BellSouth’s wireless operations in Latin America; 11 the acquisition by Telefónica of Cesky Telecom in the Czech Republic; and the acquisition of substantially all of the shares of O2 by Telefónica in January 2006 pursuant to a cash tender offer. These and our future acquisitions may expose us to certain risks, including the following: the difficulty of assimilating the operations, information technology systems and personnel of the acquired entities; the difficulty of operating in new countries in Europe where we have not previously had operations and where, for example, business practices may exist that are different from those in Spain and Latin America; the potential disruption to our ongoing business caused by senior management’s focus on the acquisition; our failure to incorporate successfully licensed or acquired technology into our network and product offerings; our acquisition of O2 may not be integrated successfully; the expected cost savings and any other synergies from an acquisition may take longer to realize than expected or may not be fully realized; the failure to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and the impairment of relationships with employees as a result of changes in management and ownership. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming these risks, and our failure to overcome these risks could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by unanticipated network interruptions. Unanticipated network interruptions as a result of system failures whether accidental or otherwise, including due to network, hardware or software failures, that affect the quality of, or cause an interruption in, our service could result in customer dissatisfaction, reduced revenues and traffic, and costly repairs and could harm our reputation. Although we carry business interruption insurance, our insurance policy may not provide coverage in amounts sufficient to compensate us for any losses we incur. Risks Relating to our Industry We face intense competition in most of our markets, which could result in decreases in current and potential customers, revenues and profitability. We face significant competition in all of the markets in which we operate. Thus, we are subject to the effects of actions by our competitors in the markets where we have operations. Our competitors could: offer lower prices, more attractive discount plans or better services and features; develop and deploy more rapidly new or improved technologies, services and products; bundle offerings of one type of service with others; in the case of the wireless industry, subsidize handset procurement; or expand and enhance more rapidly their networks. Furthermore, some of our competitors in certain markets have, and some potential competitors may enjoy, competitive advantages, including the following: greater name recognition; 12 greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources; larger customer bases; and well-established relationships with current and potential customers. To compete effectively with our competitors, we will need to market successfully our services and anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the relevant markets, such as the introduction of new products and services by our competitors, pricing strategies adopted by our competitors, changes in consumer preferences and general economic, political and social conditions. If we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors, it could result in price reductions, lower revenues, under-utilization of our services, reduced operating margins and loss of market share. We operate in a highly regulated industry and could become subject to more burdensome regulation, which could adversely affect our businesses. As a multinational telecommunications company, we are subject to different laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we provide services. Furthermore, the licensing, construction, operation and interconnection arrangements of our communications systems are regulated to varying degrees by national, state, regional, local and supranational authorities, such as the European Union. These authorities could adopt regulations or take other actions that could adversely affect us and our companies, including revocation of any of our licenses or concessions to offer services in a particular market, failure to renew a license or concession, modification of the terms of a license or concession or the granting of new licenses or concessions to competitors, changes in the regulation of international roaming prices and mobile termination rates, introduction of virtual mobile operators and regulation of mobile data services. Increased or significant changes in the regulation of the activities of our operating companies, including the regulation of rates that may be charged to customers for services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory policies applicable in many of the countries in which we operate generally favor increased competition in most of our market segments, especially in the fixed line and wireless service industries, including by granting new licenses in existing licensed territories in order to permit the entry of new competitors. These regulatory policies are likely to have the effect, over time, of reducing our market share in the relevant markets in which we operate. In addition, because we hold leading market shares in many of the countries in which we operate, we could face regulatory actions by national or, in Europe, European Union antitrust or competition authorities if it is determined that we have prevented, restricted or distorted competition. These authorities could prohibit us from making further acquisitions or continuing to engage in particular practices or impose fines or other penalties on us, which, if significant, could harm our financial performance and future growth. For a complete description of the regulatory proceedings we currently face, please see “Item 8—Financial Information—Legal Proceedings”. We operate under license and concession contracts. Most of our operating companies require licenses or concessions from the governmental authorities of the countries in which they operate. These licenses and concessions specify the types of services permitted to be offered by our operating companies. The continued existence and terms of our licenses and concessions are subject to review by regulatory authorities in each country and to interpretation, modification or termination by these authorities. The terms of these licenses granted to our operating companies and conditions of the license renewal vary from country to country. Although license renewal is not usually guaranteed, most licenses do address the renewal process and terms, which we believe we will be able to satisfy. As licenses approach the end of their terms, we intend to pursue their renewal as provided by each of the license agreements. Many of these licenses and concessions are revocable for public interest reasons. The rules of some of the regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our operating companies require us to meet specified network build-out requirements and schedules. In particular, our existing licenses and concessions typically require that we satisfy certain obligations, including minimum specified quality, service and coverage conditions and capital investment. Failure to comply with these obligations could result in the imposition of fines or revocation or forfeiture of the 13 license for the relevant area. In addition, the need to meet scheduled deadlines may require our companies to expend more resources than otherwise budgeted for a particular network build-out. The industry in which we operate is subject to rapid technological changes, and if we are unable to adapt to such changes our ability to provide competitive services could be materially adversely affected. The telecommunications industry is in a period of rapid technological change. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt in a timely manner to technological changes. We expect that new products and technologies will emerge and that existing products and technologies will further develop. These new products and technologies may reduce the prices for our services or they may be superior to, and render obsolete, the products and services we offer and the technologies we use, and may consequently reduce the revenues generated by our products and services and require investment in new technology. Our most significant competitors in the future may be new entrants to our markets who are not burdened by an installed base of older equipment. In addition, we may be subject to competition in the future from other companies that are not subject to regulation as a result of the convergence of telecommunications technologies. As a result, it may be very expensive for us to upgrade our products and technology in order to continue to compete effectively with new or existing competitors. Such increased costs could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends on the upgrading of our existing networks. We must continue to upgrade our existing wireless and fixed line networks in a timely and satisfactory manner in order to retain and expand our customer base in each of our markets, to enhance our financial performance and to satisfy regulatory requirements. Among other things, we could be required to: upgrade the functionality of our networks to permit increased customization of services; increase coverage in some of our markets; expand and maintain customer service, network management and administrative systems; and upgrade older systems and networks to adapt them to new technologies. Many of these tasks are not entirely under our control and may be affected by applicable regulation. If we fail to execute them successfully, our services and products may be less attractive to new customers and we may lose existing customers to our competitors, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected if our suppliers fail to provide necessary equipment and services on a timely basis. We depend upon a small number of major suppliers for essential products and services, mainly network infrastructure. These suppliers may, among other things, extend delivery times, raise prices and limit supply due to their own shortages and business requirements. If these suppliers fail to deliver products and services on a timely basis, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. Similarly, interruptions in the supply of telecommunications equipment for our networks could impede network development and expansion, which in some cases could adversely affect our ability to satisfy our license requirements. The wireless industry may be harmed by reports suggesting that radio frequency emissions cause health problems. Media and other reports have suggested that radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets and base stations may cause health problems. If consumers harbor health-related concerns, they may be discouraged from using wireless handsets. While we are not aware that such health risks have been substantiated, there can be no assurance that these concerns could have an adverse effect on the wireless communications industry and, possibly, expose wireless providers, including us, to litigation. Even if the authorized health institutions confirm there is no scientific evidence of adverse health effects, we cannot assure you that further medical research and studies will refute a link between the radio frequency emissions of wireless handsets and base stations and these health concerns. 14 Government authorities could increase regulation of wireless handsets and base stations as a result of these health concerns and wireless companies, including Telefónica Móviles and O2, could be held liable for costs or damages associated with these concerns, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In Spain, for example, Telefónica Móviles was required by law to test and certify the emissions of all its base stations in or close to populated areas. For the year ended December 31, 2005, such tests have again confirmed lower emission levels than those required by Royal Decree 1066/2001, which approves the regulation and which establishes the conditions for the protection of the public spectrum domain, restrictions for radio frequency emissions and measures for protection against radio frequency emissions. If in the future Telefónica Móviles fails to comply fully with these standards, it could be subject to claims or regulatory actions. Other Risks We face risks associated with litigation. We are party to lawsuits and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of our business. An adverse outcome in, or any settlement of, these or other lawsuits (including any that may be asserted in the future) could result in significant costs to us. In addition, our senior management may be required to devote substantial time to these lawsuits which they could otherwise devote to our business. For a more detailed description of current lawsuits, see “Item 8—Financial Information—Legal Proceedings”. 