D. Risk Factors The Telefónica Group's business is conditioned by a series of intrinsic risk factors that affect exclusively the Group, as well as a series of external factors that are common to businesses of the same sector. The main risks and uncertainties facing the Company which could affect its business, financial position and results, are as follows: Risks Relating to Our Business A material portion of our operations and investments are located in Latin America, and we are therefore exposed to risks inherent in operating and investing in Latin America. At December 31, 2012, approximately 48.9% of the Telefónica Group's revenue (approximately 49.6% of its assets) is generated by the Latin American segment (primarily in Brazil, Argentina, Venezuela, Chile and Peru); 78.3% of those assets are generated in countries classified as investment grade (Brazil, Chile, Peru, Colombia, Mexico, Uruguay and Panama) by some of the credit rating agencies. The Telefónica business is especially sensitive to any of the risks related to Latin America described in this section, particularly if they affect or arise in Brazil, which at December 31, 2012 accounted for 50.6% of assets and 44.6% of revenue from Latin American operations. The Group’s investments and operations in Latin America could be affected by a series of risks related to economic, political and social factors in these countries, collectively denominated “country risk,” including risks related to the following: · government regulation or administrative polices may change unexpectedly, including changes that modify the terms and conditions of licenses and concessions and their renewal (or delay their approvals) which could negatively affect the Group’s interests in such countries. See Appendix VI to our Consolidated Financial Statements — “Key Regulatory Issues and Concessions and Licences held by the Telefónìca Group”; · the effects of inflation, currency depreciation or currency restrictions and other restraints on transfer of funds may be imposed. For example, in Venezuela, the official U.S. Dollar to Bolivar fuerte exchange rate is established by the Central Bank of Venezuela and the Minister of Finance. Additionally, the acquisition of foreign currencies by Venezuelan companies to pay foreign debt or dividends is subject to the pre-authorization of the relevant Venezuelan authorities; · governments may expropriate or nationalize assets or increase their participation in the economy and companies; and · economic downturns, political instability and civil disturbances may negatively affect the Telefónica Group’s operations in such countries. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate or financial investment risks. The Telefónica Group’s business is exposed to various types of market risks, above all the impact of changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates. At December 31, 2012, 23% of the Group’s net debt was at floating rates, while 20% was denominated in a currency other than the euro. To illustrate the sensitivity of financial expenses to a change in short-term interest rates at December 31, 2012: (i) a 100 basis points increase in interest rates in all currencies in which Telefónica has a financial position at that date would lead to an increase in financial expenses of 96 million euros, (ii) whereas a 100 basis points decrease in interest rates in all currencies except the euro, dollar and the pound sterling, in order to avoid negative rates, would lead to a reduction in financial expenses of 36 million euros. These calculations were made assuming a constant currency and balance position equivalent to the position at that date and bearing in mind the derivative financial instruments arranged. 14 Table of Contents As for the impact on the income statement, specifically exchange gains and losses in the financial result at December 31, 2012, the impact of a 10% increase or decrease in the exchange rate would be 159 million euros (assuming a constant currency position with an impact on profit or loss at that date including derivative instruments arranged and that Latin American currencies would fall against the U.S. dollar and the rest of the currencies against the euro by 10%). The Telefónica Group uses a variety of strategies to manage this risk, mainly through the use of financial derivatives, which themselves are also exposed to risk, including counterparty risk. Furthermore, the Group’s risk management strategies may not achieve the desired effect, which could adversely affect the Group’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Existing or worsening conditions in the international financial markets may limit our ability to carry out our business plan. The performance, expansion and improvement of networks, the development and distribution of the Telefónica Group’s services and products, as well as the development and implementation of new technologies or the renewal of licenses require a substantial amount of financing. The performance of financial markets in terms of liquidity, cost of credit, access and volatility, continues to be overshadowed by persisting uncertainty regarding certain factors such as the pace of economic recovery, the health of the international banking system or the concerns regarding the burgeoning deficits of some European countries. The worsening international financial market conditions caused by some of these factors could make it more difficult and more expensive to refinance existing financial debt (at December 31, 2012, gross maturities in 2013, including the net position in derivative financial instruments, certain current payables and expected early redemptions amounted to around 10,074 million euros, or 9,574 million euros should Telefónica elect not to exercise expected early redemptions, and in 2014 to 7,850 million euros) or arrange new debt if necessary, and more difficult and costly to raise funds from our shareholders. Furthermore, obtaining financing on the international capital markets could also be restricted (in terms of access and cost) if Telefónica's credit ratings are revised downwards, either due to lower solvency or operating performance, or as a result of a downgrade in the rating for Spanish sovereign risk by rating agencies. Any of these situations could have a negative impact on our ability to honor our debts. Moreover, market conditions could make it harder to renew existing undrawn bilateral credit lines, 18% of which, at December 31, 2012, initially mature prior to December 31, 2013. Risks Relating to Our Industry Adverse economic conditions could reduce purchases of our products and services. The Telefónica Group’s business is impacted by general economic conditions in each of the countries in which it operates. The uncertainty about whether economic recovery will continue may negatively affect the level of demand from existing and prospective customers, as customers may no longer deem critical the services offered by the Group. The main macroeconomic factors that could have an adverse impact on consumption and, accordingly, demand for our services and the Telefónica Group’s results include the dearth of credit as banks adjust their balance sheets, trends in the labor market, further erosion of consumer confidence, with an immediate increase in saving rates, or needs for greater fiscal adjustment, which would undermine household income levels. This risk is higher in Europe, but less relevant in other countries where the Telefónica Group operates. Similarly, the sovereign debt crisis in certain euro-area countries and rating downgrades in some of these countries should be taken into account. Any further deterioration in sovereign debt markets or greater restrictions on credit in the banking sector could have an adverse impact on Telefónica’s ability to raise financing and/or obtain liquidity. This could have a negative effect on the Group’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, there could be other possible follow-on effects from the economic crisis on the Group’s business, including insolvency of key customers or suppliers. Lastly, in Latin America, the exchange rate risk in Venezuela (as reflected by the recent currency devaluation in February 2013) and Argentina (with a constant devaluation of the Argentinean peso against U.S. dollar) exists in relation to the negative impact any unexpected weakening in their currencies could have on cash flows from these countries. On February 8, 2013, the Venezuelan bolivar fuerte was devalued from 4.3 bolivar fuertes per U.S. dollar to 6.3 bolivar fuertes per U.S. dollar. The exchange-rate situation of the Bolivar fuerte affects the estimates made by the Group of the liquidation value of the net foreign currency position related to investments in Venezuela, which translates to an approximate pre-tax loss of 438 million euros on the 2012 financial statements. 15 Table of Contents We operate in a highly regulated industry, which could adversely affect our businesses, and we depend on government concessions. As a multinational telecommunications company that operates in regulated markets, the Telefónica Group is subject to different laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it provides services and in which supranational regulators such as the European Union and national, state, regional and local authorities intervene to varying degrees and as appropriate. This regulation is strict in the countries in which the Company holds a significant market power position. In Europe, wholesale mobile network termination rates came down in 2011. There were considerable reductions in many of the countries where the Group operates, notably in the UK (with a final reduction scheduled for 2015 and a decrease in prices of over 83% compared to the end of 2010) and Germany (cuts of over 50% since December 2010). In Spain, the schedule for reducing mobile call termination rates came into play on April 16, 2012, and the target price (1.09 euros) will be attained in July 2013, with a decrease of approximately 75% in wholesale prices. Other countries where rates will fall as from 2012 are the Czech Republic (slightly more than 49%), Ireland (approximately 72%) and Slovakia (approximately 58%). Other services with regulated prices in Europe include call roaming, SMS and data services. The European Parliament and Council has approved the new Roaming III regulation which replaces all previous regulations. The objective of this Regulation is to set maximum prices for voice and SMS retail and wholesale services between July 2012 and July 2014, which will then be progressively reduced. It also regulates retail and wholesale data roaming charges for the first time. Additionally, according to Roaming III, from July 2014, mobile operators would be forced to separate the sale of roaming services from their domestic services. This would allow users to choose a different operator for calls made in other Member States. Lastly, in relation to net neutrality, the new European regulatory framework establishes as a general principle the importance of ensuring European citizens have free internet access. Nevertheless, regulators could also adopt at any time measures or additional requirements to reduce roaming prices and fixed and/or mobile termination rates, and force Telefónica to provide third-party access to its networks. Moreover, in Latin America there is tendency to review –and reduce– mobile network termination rates. For instance, reductions of 61% and 60% have been approved in Mexico and Chile, respectively. In Brazil, in October 2011, the regulator (Anatel) approved the fixed-mobile rate adjustment regulation, which entails a gradual reduction of these rates through to 2014 by applying a CPI-factor, which results in a reduction of approximately 29% in 2012-2014. The absolute decrease in public rates must be passed on to mobile interconnection rates (VU-M). In addition, there is a trend towards reductions in termination rates in Peru, Venezuela and Colombia. The new regulatory principles established in Europe's common regulatory framework, adopted in 2009 and transposed in the national legislation of each Member State in which Telefónica operated during 2011 and 2012 could result in increased regulatory pressure on the local competitive environment. Specifically, this framework supports the possibility of national regulators, in specific cases and under exceptional conditions, establishing the functional separation between the wholesale and retail businesses of operators with significant market power and vertically integrated operators, whereby they would be required to offer equal wholesale terms to third-party operators that acquire these products. The recommendation on the application of the European regulatory policy to next-generation broadband networks drawn up by the European Commission (EC) could also play a key role in the incentives for operators to invest in net fixed broadband networks in the short-term and medium-term, thus affecting the outlook for the business and competition in this market segment. Nonetheless, the EC is currently drafting respective recommendations on cost accounting and non-discrimination, and it is expected that these recommendations, which will affect the earlier recommendation, will be approved in mid-2013. According to statements by Commissioner Kroes, initial evaluations are that the Commission could make the regulation for new generation networks more flexible in exchange for stricter measures on new operators concerning non-discrimination. Meanwhile, as the Group provides most of its services under licenses, authorizations or concessions, it is vulnerable to economic fines for serious breaches and, ultimately, revocation or failure to renew these licenses, authorizations or concessions or the granting of new licenses to competitors for the provisions of services in a specific market. 16 Table of Contents The Telefónica Group pursues their renewal to the extent provided by the contractual conditions, though it cannot guarantee that it will always complete this process successfully or under the most beneficial terms for the Group. In many cases it must satisfy certain obligations, including, among others, minimum specified quality standards, service and coverage conditions and capital investment. Failure to comply with these obligations could result in fines or even revocation or forfeiture of the license, authorization or concession. Additionally, the Telefónica Group could be affected by regulatory actions carried out by antitrust of competition authorities. These authorizations could prohibit certain actions, such as new acquisitions or specific practices, create obligations or lead to heavy fines. Any such measures implemented by the competition authorities could results in economic and/or reputational loss for the Group, in addition to a loss of market share and/or in harm to the future growth of certain businesses. We operate in highly competitive markets and the industry in which we operate is subject to continuous technological changes, which requires us to continuously adapt to such changes and to upgrade our existing networks. The Telefónica Group operates in markets that are highly competitive and subject to constant technological development. Therefore, it is subject to the effects of actions by competitors in these markets and its ability to anticipate and adapt to constant technological changes taking place in the industry. To compete effectively, the Telefónica Group needs to successfully market its products and services and respond to both commercial actions by competitors and other competitive factors affecting these markets, anticipating and adapting promptly to technological changes, changes in consumer preferences and general economic, political and social conditions. Failure to do so appropriately could have an adverse impact on the Group’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. New products and technologies arise constantly, while the development of existing products and technologies can render obsolete the products and services the Telefónica Group offers and the technology it uses. This means that Telefónica must invest in the development of new products, technology and services so it can continue to compete effectively with current or future competitors, and which may result in the decrease of the Group’s revenue margins. In this respect, margins from traditional voice and data business are shrinking, while new sources of revenues are deriving from mobile internet and connectivity services that are being launched. Research and development costs amounted to 1,071 million euros and 983 million euros in 2012 and 2011, respectively, representing 1.7% and 1.6% of the Group’s consolidated revenue, respectively. One technology that telecommunications operators, including Telefónica (in Spain and Latin America), are focused on is the new FTTx-type network, which offers broadband access using optical fiber with superior services, e.g. internet speed of up to 100mb or HD television services. However, substantial investment is required to deploy these networks, which entails fully or partially substituting copper loop access with optic fiber. As things stand today, scant demand for the capabilities offered by these new networks to end users could make it difficult to quantify the return on investment and justify the high investment. In addition, many of the aforementioned works directed to network upgrade and to offer new products or services are not entirely under the Telefónica Group’s control and could be constrained by applicable regulation. Spectrum capacity may become a limiting and costly factor. Telefónica’s mobile operations in a number of countries may rely on the availability of spectrum. The Company’s failure to obtain sufficient or appropriate spectrum capacity or its capacity to assume the related costs, could have an adverse impact on the quality on the launching and provision of new services and on the Company’s ability to maintain the quality of existing services, which may adversely affect the Group’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In 2012, Telefónica Ireland invested 127 million euros to obtain spectrum in the 800, 900 and 1800 MHz bands. On February 20, 2013, Telefónica UK was granted two blocks of 10 MHz in the 800 MHz spectrum band for the rollout of a nationwide 4G network, total investment was of approximately 645 million euros. Meanwhile, in 2012, an investment was made in spectrum capacity in Nicaragua amounting to 5 million euros. In Brazil, Vivo was awarded a block of band with “X” of 2500 MHz (20+20 MHz), including the 450 MHz band in certain states in 2012. In Venezuela, in August 2012, a concession agreement was signed between Telefónica Venezuela and the regulator for the additional 20 MHz in the 1900 MHz frequency that had been granted to this company. Also in August 2012, Telefónica Móviles Chile, S.A. was awarded radiofrequencies for 4G technology. As regards new spectrum allocations in the countries where the Telefónica Group operates, in 2013 we are expecting auctions to take place in Slovakia, Colombia and Uruguay. 17 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected if our suppliers fail to provide necessary equipment and services on a timely basis. As a mobile and fixed telephony operator and provider of telecommunications services and products, the Telefónica Group, like other companies in the industry, depends upon a small number of major suppliers for essential products and services, mainly network infrastructure and mobile handsets. Telefónica Group depends on 13 handset suppliers and five network infrastructure suppliers, which together accounted for 80% of orders in 2012. These suppliers may, among other things, extend delivery times, raise prices and limit supply due to their own shortages and business requirements. If these suppliers fail to deliver products and services to the Telefónica Group on a timely basis, it could jeopardize network deployment and expansion plans, which in some cases could adversely affect the Telefónica Group’s ability to satisfy its license terms and requirements or have an adverse impact on the Group’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be adversely affected by unanticipated network interruptions. Unanticipated network interruptions as a result of system failures, including those due to network, hardware or software or cyber-attacks, which affect the quality of or cause an interruption in the Telefónica Group’s service, could lead to customer dissatisfaction, reduced revenues and traffic, costly repairs, penalties or other measures imposed by regulatory authorities and could harm the Telefónica Group’s reputation. Telefónica attempts to mitigate these risks through a number of measures, including backup systems and protective systems such as firewalls, virus scanners and other physical and logical security. However, these measures are not always effective. Although the Telefónica Group has insurance policies to cover this type of incidents and risks, these policies may not be sufficient to cover all possible monetary losses, although the claims and loss in revenue caused by service interruptions to date have been covered by these policies. The mobile industry may be harmed by concerns stemming from actual or perceived health risks associated with radio frequency emissions. Currently, there is significant public concern regarding alleged potential effects of electromagnetic fields, emitted by mobile telephones and base stations, on human health. This social concern has caused certain governments and administrations to take measures that have hindered the deployment of the infrastructures necessary to ensure quality of service and affected the deployment criteria of new networks. In May 2011, the specialized cancer research body of the World Health Organization (IARC) classified the electromagnetic fields in mobile telephony as “possibly carcinogenic,” a classification which also includes products such as coffee and pickled foods. The World Health Organization subsequently indicated, in its fact sheet no. 193 published in June 2011, that to date it cannot be confirmed that the use of a mobile telephone has adverse effects on health. The most recent official study (to the best of our knowledge), published in 2012 by Advisory Group on Non-ionising Radiation (AGNIR), concludes that there are not convincing evidences showing that mobile phone technologies cause adverse effects in the health of individuals. It cannot be certain that future reports and medical studies establish a link between the electromagnetic signals or emissions of radio frequencies and health problems. Irrespective of the scientific evidence that may be obtained and even though the Telefónica Group has considered these risks and has an action plan for the various countries in which it provides services to ensure compliance with codes of good practice and relevant regulations, this concern, may affect the capacity to capture or retain customers, discourage the use of mobile telephones, or lead to legal costs and other expenses. Society's worries about radiofrequency emissions could reduce the use of mobile telephones, which could cause the public authorities to implement measures restricting where transmitters and cell sites can be located and how they operate, and the use of our mobile devices, telephones and other products using mobile technology. This could lead to the Company being unable to expand or improve its mobile network. Furthermore, if any relevant authorities request that the thresholds of exposure to electromagnetic fields be reduced, the Company may have to invest in reconstructing its network to comply with these guidelines. The adoption of new measures by governments or administrations or other regulatory interventions in this respect that may also arise in the future may adversely affect the Group’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 18 Table of Contents Developments in the telecommunications sector have resulted, and may in the future result, in substantial write-downs of the carrying value of certain of our assets. The Telefónica Group reviews on an annual basis, or more frequently when the circumstances require it, the value of assets and cash-generating units, to assess whether their carrying values can be supported by the future expected cash flows, including, in some cases synergies allowed for in acquisition cost. Potential changes in the regulatory, business, economic or political environment may result in the need to introduce changes to estimates made and recognize impairment losses in goodwill, intangible assets or fixed assets. Although the recognition of impairments of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and financial assets results in a non-cash charge on the income statement, it could adversely affect the results of the Telefónica Group’s operations. In this respect, the Telefónica Group has experienced impairment losses on certain of its investments, affecting the results of the year in which they were made. In 2012, an impairment loss was recognized on the stake in Telco, S.p.A. which, coupled with the impact of the recovery of all the operational synergies considered at the time of the investment and the profit contribution for the year, resulted in a negative impact of 1,277 million euros. In 2012, an impairment loss in goodwill was recognized amounting to 414 million euros for Telefónica operations in Ireland which, combined with the write-off of the intangible asset associated with the customer portfolio allocated to this market, resulted in a negative impact of 527 million euros. Risks associated with the Internet may adversely affect us Our internet access and hosting services may involve us in civil liability for illegal or illicit use of the internet. In addition, Telefónica, like all telecommunications services providers, may be held liable for the loss, release or inappropriate modification of the customer data stored on its services or carried by its networks In most countries in which Telefónica operates, the provision of its internet access and hosting services (including the operation of websites with shelf-generated content) are regulated under a limited liability regime applicable to the content that it makes available to the public as a technical service provider, particularly content protected by copyright or similar laws. However, regulatory changes have been introduced imposing additional obligations on access providers (such as. blocking access to a website) as part of the struggle against some illegal or illicit uses of the internet, notably in Europe. Other risks We are involved in disputes and litigation with regulators, competitors and third parties. Telefónica and Telefónica Group companies are party to lawsuits and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of their businesses, the financial outcome of which is unpredictable. An adverse outcome or settlement in these or other proceedings could result in significant costs and may have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 19 Table of Contents 