ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the following risks occur, our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected in amounts that could be material. Risks Related to Our Business The U.S. government’s investigation into the wagering activities of certain IRG customers may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. The U.S. government’s investigation into the wagering activities of certain IRG customers resulted in the seizure of approximately $1.5 million held in IRG bank accounts on October 11, 2007, among other things. The trading price of our common stock has been materially affected since the disclosure of the U.S. government’s investigation in October 2007. On March 14, 2008, we entered into two separate agreements with the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Las Vegas. Pursuant to the first agreement, the U.S. Attorney’s Office agreed not to pursue any charges against Youbet or IRG in exchange for the company’s continued cooperation with the government’s ongoing investigation. In a separate agreement, the company agreed to forfeit approximately $1.5 million previously seized by the government as part of its investigation. While these agreements resolve the matter for the company, the government’s ongoing investigation creates other ancillary risks. The $1.5 million seized by the U.S. government represents funds deposited by customers of IRG. Accordingly, as we will not receive these funds back, our obligation to our customers with respect to any rightful funds may affect our ability to fund our working capital and capital expenditure requirements, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Further, our inability to make whole or a decision to not make whole our customers may result in actions by our customers as well as the regulatory agencies that license and regulate our business that may adversely affect our business and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents Additionally, our continued cooperation with the U.S. government’s investigation will continue to divert management’s attention from managing our day-to-day operations and expenses arising from cooperating and responding to the U.S. government’s investigation are expected to remain significant. Current and former employees, officers and directors may seek indemnification, advancement or reimbursement of expenses from us, including attorneys’ fees, with respect to current or future proceedings related to this matter. These events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. If it is determined that our business practices violate state gaming laws or regulations, we could be subject to claims for damages, fines or other penalties and may be prohibited from accepting pari-mutuel wagers from these states in the future. We currently have licenses in the states of California, Idaho, Oregon and Washington to operate an ADW multi-jurisdictional wagering hub and/or to accept wagers from residents of such states. We also accept pari-mutuel wagers from subscribers in other states where, we believe, accepting such wagers is permitted pursuant to the Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978, as amended, state laws, and certain other laws and legal principles, including those contained in the U.S. Constitution. However, state attorneys general and gaming regulators may interpret state gaming laws, the federal statutes and constitutional principles and doctrines in a narrower manner than we do. If a federal or state court were to adopt such a narrow interpretation of these laws, we may face criminal or civil damages, fines or other penalties and may be prohibited from accepting pari-mutuel wagers in one or more states in the future, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, if any proceedings were brought by governmental or private litigants who disagree with our interpretation of the applicable laws, the adverse publicity, cost of such litigation and diversion of management’s focus and time away from our business operations may have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we have received correspondence from various state governmental agencies inquiring into the legality of our business activities and, in certain circumstances, alleging our non-compliance with state gaming laws. To date, we have responded in a timely manner to all of these inquiries outlining our legal position, which we believe permits our business operations in such states. We cannot assure you that any of these state governmental agencies agree with our legal position or that proceedings intended to prohibit or restrict our business will not be brought against us by one or more of these state governmental agencies in the future. Furthermore, a number of states have considered, enacted or are considering interactive and Internet gaming legislation and regulations which may inhibit our ability to do business in such states, and anti-gaming conclusions and recommendations of other governmental or quasi-governmental bodies could form the basis for new laws, regulations and enforcement policies that could have a material adverse impact on our business. The extensive regulation by both state and federal authorities of gaming activities also can be significantly affected by changes in the political climate and changes in economic and regulatory policies. Such effects could be materially adverse to us. For example, a law passed by the Arizona legislature that took effect on September 19, 2007, purportedly makes it a felony to accept or place a wager on a horse race anywhere in Arizona except at a licensed track or off-track betting parlor. We have since ceased to accept wagers from Arizona residents. On September 26, 2007, we also ceased to accept all wagers from residents of the District of Columbia after the ORC informed us that it had concluded that ADW companies should no longer accept wagers from the District of Columbia. Additionally, in connection with discussions with state officials, we agreed to temporarily stop accepting wagers from Kansas, residents effective at the beginning of 2008. Customers from Arizona, the District of Columbia and Kansas in the aggregate, represented 4.2% and 4.0% of handle for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Laws and regulations proposed by Congress and various state legislatures or federal or state authorities that are directly applicable to online and Internet gambling could have a material adverse effect on our business. After nearly a decade of consideration, Congress recently passed Internet gambling legislation. The Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006, or the UIGEA, was signed into law on October 13, 2006. The UIGEA includes certain racing protective provisions by maintaining the status quo with respect to wagering activities under the Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978, as amended. Certain versions of this legislation and other bills introduced in prior years have not included exemptions applicable to our business, and we cannot be certain legislation will not be introduced in the future that could threaten to materially and adversely affect our business. A number of states have enacted, considered or are considering interactive and Internet gaming legislation and regulations which may or may not be worded so as to permit our business to continue in such states; and anti-gaming conclusions and recommendations of other governmental or quasi-governmental bodies could form the basis for new laws, regulations, or enforcement policies that could have a material adverse effect on our business. International expansion of our business may be subject to regulation in those countries in which it is made available. We believe that we can operate or license technology in numerous jurisdictions that allow telephone and account wagering. However, we may not be able to obtain the approvals necessary to market our services in such jurisdictions. 7 Table of Contents If credit card companies, as a policy, refuse to process wagering account transactions as a result of perceived legal uncertainty surrounding online live event wagering, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Credit card companies may in the future become hesitant to process deposits, fees and online transactions by our customers. This would limit the methods of payment available to our subscribers, reducing the convenience of our services, and may make competitive services more attractive. This may adversely affect our business. If the federal government or state governments impose taxes on wagers, our business could be adversely affected. If one or more governmental authorities successfully asserts that we should collect taxes on wagers, it could adversely affect our business. We do not currently collect taxes on wagers. We pay all applicable taxes to the State of Oregon where we are licensed and currently regulated. However, one or more local, state or foreign jurisdictions may seek to tax Internet wagering when a subscriber is physically within their jurisdiction at the time the wager is placed. Such taxes, if imposed, would have a material adverse effect on our business. If our license and content agreement with TVG is terminated or is not renewed, and if we are not able to license such content directly from the track operators, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. TVG has formed purported exclusive relationships with a number of major U.S. horse racetracks. In May 2001, we entered into a license and content agreement with TVG. Pursuant to this agreement, we have a non-exclusive license to access the simulcast audio, video and data content, as well as the wagering pools, of certain racing content at these racetracks. If our agreement with TVG is terminated or if such relationships between TVG and such racetracks are terminated or not renewed, and if, following any such termination or non-renewal, we are not able to license such content directly from the track operators, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We face strong competition, and we expect competition to increase. TVG, which operates an ADW website and the Television Games Network, is a direct competitor in the interactive, pari-mutuel wagering market. The Television Games Network is a 24-hour national racing channel for distribution over cable, Dish Network and DIRECTV ®, along with an in-home pari-mutuel wagering system that requires a dedicated television set-top box. Further expansion of TVG’s product and expansion of its purported exclusive relationships may make it difficult for us to grow our subscriber base and to obtain quality racing content. Additionally, if exclusive relationships account for a significant number of horse tracks, TVG may be able to secure relationships with additional horse tracks on more favorable terms than us. TVG is a business wholly-owned and operated by Gemstar-TV Guide International, Inc. (“Gemstar”). On December 6, 2007, Gemstar agreed to be acquired by Macrovision Corporation. If Macrovision, or any subsequent acquirer of the TVG business, causes TVG to operate in jurisdictions that TVG currently does not operate in, this expansion of TVG’s business will increase competition for us. Magna and its affiliated ADW website XpressBet, and Churchill Downs and its affiliated ADW website Twinspires.com, are also direct competitors in the domestic interactive, pari-mutuel wagering market. In March 2007, Magna and Churchill Downs announced that they had formed a joint venture called TrackNet through which the companies’ horse racing content will be available to each other’s various distribution platforms, including XpressBet and Twinspires, and to third parties, including racetracks, casinos and other ADW providers such as Youbet. For more information about TrackNet, see Item 1. “Business—Competition”. We can not presently estimate the ultimate impact that the loss of Magna and Churchill Downs content will have on our business, and we cannot be certain we will be able to secure TrackNet’s content in the near or long term. We also compete with several other companies, including the Racing Channel doing business as Oneclickbetting.com. Worldwide, numerous other Internet and interactive ventures exist. We expect to compete with these entities, as well as new companies which may enter the interactive, pari-mutuel gaming market. It is possible that our current and potential competitors may have greater resources than us. 8 Table of Contents We are subject to debt covenants that we have not, and may not, be able to maintain compliance with, which could have important consequences related to the success of our business. At December 31, 2007, we owed $10.9 million under our credit facility. We have used debt primarily to finance operations in our totalizator segment. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • limiting cash flow available for general corporate purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions, because a portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to servicing our debt; • limiting our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions; • limiting our flexibility to react to competitive and other changes in our industry and economic conditions generally; and • exposing us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because our borrowings are at variable rates of interest. In December 2006, we failed to satisfy certain financial covenants under our credit agreement, which resulted in a default under the credit agreement and required us to negotiate with our lender to waive our default and amend the facility in March 2007. In October 2007, we negotiated another waiver of a default under the credit agreement arising from the seizure by the U.S. government of $1.5 million in connection with their investigation of IRG. In December 2007, we again failed to satisfy certain financial covenants under our credit agreement, which resulted in yet another default under the credit agreement and required us to negotiate with our lender to waive our default and amend the facility in March 2008. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow or perform sufficiently to satisfy the new financial covenants that we are subject to under our amended credit agreement. Any default under our credit agreement and our inability to obtain a waiver of such a default, or to obtain such a waiver on satisfactory terms, could result in our outstanding indebtedness under the credit facility becoming immediately due and payable in the event our lender were to accelerate our debt under the credit agreement. Such an acceleration on our indebtedness would have adverse consequences on our business and results of operations. Our inability to retain our relationships with our content providers would have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend upon a limited number of suppliers for the majority of our content, and the cancellation or non-renewal of our license agreements with any one of those suppliers, such as NYRA, would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our inability to retain our core customer base or our failure to attract new customers would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our data mining software generates detailed customer segmentation analyses based on variables such as wagering propensities and preferences, which allows us to personalize our product offerings through targeted special offers tailored to specific customer segments. We believe that these techniques help us to retain our best customers. In addition, our marketing relationships with the Daily Racing Form and others help us attract new customers. If we are unable to retain our core customer base through robust content offerings and other popular features, if we lose customers to our competitors, or if we fail to attract new customers, our businesses would fail to grow or would be adversely affected. System failures or damage from earthquakes, fires, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins or other unforeseen events could harm our business. Our business depends upon our communications hardware and our computer hardware. Currently, our hardware is stored in two different locations. Our front end systems and internet connection hardware have been relocated to a Tier IV co-location facility in Miami, Florida. Our backend systems are stored at a leased facility in Woodland Hills, California. We have built certain redundancies into our systems to avoid downtime in the event of outages, system failures or damage, however, we do not have duplicate geographic locations for our site of operations. Thus, our systems remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, hardware or software error, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and similar events. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Any unscheduled interruption in the availability of our website and our services results in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenue. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential users to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid our site, and could permanently harm our reputation and brand. These interruptions also increase the burden on our engineering staff, which, in turn, could delay our introduction of new features and services on our website. We have property and business interruption insurance covering damage or interruption of our systems. However, this insurance might not be sufficient to compensate us for all losses that may occur. 9 Table of Contents We may not be able to respond to rapid technological changes in a timely manner or without service interruptions, which may cause customer dissatisfaction. The gaming sector is characterized by the rapid development of new technologies and continuous introduction of new products. Our main technological advantage versus potential competitors is our software lead-time in the market and our experience in operating an Internet-based wagering network. However, we may not be able to maintain our competitive technological position against current and potential competitors, especially those with greater financial resources. Our success depends upon new product development and technological advancements, including the development of new wagering platforms. While we expend a significant amount of resources on research and development and product enhancement, we may not be able to continue to improve and market our existing products or technologies or develop and market new products in a timely manner. Further technological developments may cause our products or technologies to become obsolete or noncompetitive. If we were to lose the services of key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our future success depends in a large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. They are critical to our overall management, as well as the development of our technology, culture and strategic direction. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing, finance/accounting and customer service personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may not be able to retain and attract such employees. Our operating results fluctuate seasonally and may be adversely impacted by a reduction in live racing dates as a result of regulatory factors. We experience significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results as a result of the seasonality associated with the racing schedules. Generally, revenue is greater in the second and third quarters of the calendar year. We carry a limited number of live racing dates and the number of live racing dates varies somewhat from year to year. The allocation of live racing dates in most of the jurisdictions is subject to regulatory approval from year to year and, in any given year, there may not be the same or more racing dates than in prior years. A significant decrease in the number of live racing dates would reduce our revenue and cause our businesses to suffer. If the horse racing tracks that we carry experience unfavorable weather, it may cause races to be cancelled which would reduce our revenue and cause our business to suffer. Because horse racing is conducted outdoors, unfavorable weather conditions, including extremely high or low temperatures, excessive precipitation, storms or hurricanes, may cause races to be cancelled. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2005, due largely to inclement weather, we carried 300 fewer races at predominantly premier tracks, than in the fourth quarter of 2004. Because a substantial portion of our operating expenses is fixed, a reduction in the number of races held or in the number of horses racing due to unfavorable weather would reduce our revenue and cause our business to suffer. A horse racing industry controversy could cause a decline in bettor confidence and result in changes to legislation, regulation or industry practices, which could materially reduce the amount wagered on horse racing and increase our costs, and therefore, adversely affect our revenue and operating results. A horse racing industry controversy could cause a decline in bettor confidence and result in changes to legislation, regulation or industry practices. For example, on October 26, 2002, in connection with the Breeders’ Cup World Thoroughbred Championships held at Arlington Park in Chicago, Illinois, only one person placed winning bets on the Pick 6, a bet to pick the winning horse in six consecutive races. The bettor purchased all six winning tickets, valued at more than $2.5 million, through an off-track betting telephone system. Payment of the winnings was withheld when an examination of the winning bets revealed an unusual betting pattern. Scientific Games Corporation, the parent company of Autotote Systems, Inc., later announced that it had fired an employee who had allegedly accessed the totalizator system operated by Autotote Systems, altered the winning Pick 6 tickets, and erased the record of his access. The Federal Bureau of Investigation conducted an investigation, and three individuals pled guilty in federal court to conspiring to commit fraud and money laundering. Industry controversy, like the Pick 6 matter, could result in a perceived lack of integrity or security, a decline in bettor confidence, and could lead to a decline in the amount wagered on horse racing. Any such controversy could lead to changes in legislation, regulation or industry practices, which could result in a material reduction in the amount wagered on horse racing and in the revenue and earnings of companies in the horse racing industry, including us. 10 Table of Contents The inability of our systems and controls to handle online security risks would have a material adverse effect on our business. We use packet filters, fire walls and proxy servers which are all designed to control and filter the data allowed to enter our data centers. However, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments may make it easier for someone to compromise or breach the technology we use to protect our subscribers’ transaction data. If such a breach of security were to occur, it could cause interruptions in service and loss of data or cessation in service to our subscribers. This may also allow someone to introduce a “virus” or other harmful component to Youbet causing an interruption or malfunction. To the extent our activities involve the storage and transmission of information such as credit card numbers, security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Our insurance policies might not be sufficient to reimburse us for losses caused by such security breaches. Risks Related to United Tote United Tote’s totalizator business depends on its relationships with its track and other partners for a substantial portion of its revenue. The loss of all or a portion of these relationships could result in the failure to realize the expected level of revenue from United Tote’s totalizator business. United Tote has contracts to provide totalizator services to more than 100 tracks and other sporting venues that accept wagers, such as Jai Lai. As a result, the success of United Tote depends, in part, on our ability to maintain successful relationships with United Tote’s contract partners. Should these contract partners discontinue purchasing totalizator services from United Tote, we will fail to realize our expected level of revenue from United Tote’s totalizator business. United Tote’s totalizator business depends on the total amount of wagers placed with its track partners. Many of United Tote’s contracts provide that it will receive a percentage of the pari-mutuel wagering pools for which it provides totalizator services. As the amount of pari-mutuel pools increase, United Tote’s revenue increases. Accordingly, a decrease in wagers placed at one or more of United Tote’s contract partners could cause a decline in United Tote’s wagers (or revenue) and, in turn, our consolidated revenue as the owner of United Tote. Further, any material reduction by any one of United Tote’s contract partners in its level of commitment of resources, funding, personnel, and interest in continued development of horse racing or other wagering-based businesses could cause a decline in wagering and United Tote’s and our consolidated revenue. United Tote’s totalizator business depends upon leading with and responding to technological changes. United Tote’s success depends upon new product development and technological advancements, including the development of more advanced wagering terminals. While United Tote devotes resources to research and development and product enhancement, it may not be able to continue to improve and market existing products or technologies or successfully develop and market new products in a timely manner. Further technological developments by competitors may cause United Tote products or technologies to become obsolete or noncompetitive. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock If we fail to continue to meet all applicable Nasdaq Capital Market requirements and Nasdaq determines to delist our common stock, the delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock, impair the value of your investment and harm our business. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. In order to maintain that listing, we must satisfy minimum financial and other requirements. One such requirement is a $1.00 per share minimum bid price. As of March 28, 2008, our common stock has not met the $1.00 per share minimum bid price requirement for 30 consecutive business days, and on March 31, 2008, Nasdaq delivered a notice regarding our noncompliance with their continued listing requirements. If we are unable to demonstrate compliance within the applicable grace period, our common stock will be delisted after that time. 11 Table of Contents We may seek stockholder approval to effect a reverse stock split to cause an increase in the trading price of our common stock to a level above the minimum bid price requirement. However, a reverse stock split may not prevent the common stock from dropping back down towards the Nasdaq minimum per share price requirement or below the required level. It is also possible that we would otherwise fail to satisfy another Nasdaq requirement for continued listing of our common stock. If we fail to continue to meet all applicable Nasdaq Capital Market requirements in the future and Nasdaq determines to delist our common stock, the delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock, adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and harm our business. This delisting could also impair the value of your investment. The share price of our common stock may be volatile and can decline further. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of issues, including broad market factors that may have a material adverse impact on our stock price, regardless of actual performance. These factors include the following: • periodic variations in the actual or anticipated financial results of our business or that of our competitors; • downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates of our future operating results or of the future operating results of our competitors; • material announcements by us or our competitors; • public sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock; and • adverse changes in general market conditions or economic trends or in conditions or trends in the markets in which we operate. If our quarterly results are below the expectations of securities market analysts and investors, the price of our common stock may decline further. Many factors, including those described in this report, can affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which makes the prediction of our financial results difficult. These factors include: • changes in market conditions that can affect the demand for horse race wagering; • general economic conditions that affect the availability of disposable income among consumers; and • the actions of our competitors. If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of securities market analysts and investors due to these or other risks, securities analysts may downgrade our common stock and some of our stockholders may sell their shares, which could adversely affect the trading prices of our common stock. We have the ability to issue additional equity securities, which would lead to further dilution of our issued and outstanding common stock. The issuance of additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities would result in dilution of then-existing stockholders’ equity interests in us. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue, without vote or action of stockholders, up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series, and has the ability to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of any such series. Any such series of preferred stock could contain dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences or other rights superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. If we issue convertible preferred stock, a subsequent conversion may dilute the current common stockholders’ interest. Our Board of Directors has no present intention of issuing any such preferred stock, but reserves the right to do so in the future. In addition, we may issue up to approximately 57.9 million shares of common stock that are authorized but not issued, and as of December 31, 2007, approximately 3.4 million shares of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock in the aggregate were issuable upon the exercise of vested options. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 