D. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, prospective investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making any investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and results of operations. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Relating to Our Business A material portion of our operations and investments are located in Latin America, and we are therefore exposed to risks inherent in operating and investing in Latin America. At December 31, 2008, approximately 36.3% of our assets were located in Latin America. In addition, approximately 38.7% of our revenues for 2008 were derived from our Latin American operations. Our operations and investments in Latin America (including the revenues generated by these operations, their market value and the dividends and management fees expected to be received therefrom) are subject to various risks linked to the economic, political and social conditions of these countries, including risks related to the following: · government regulation or administrative polices may change unexpectedly and negatively affect our interests in such countries; · currencies may be devalued or may depreciate or currency restrictions and other restraints on transfer of funds may be imposed; · the effects of inflation or currency depreciation may result in certain of our subsidiaries having negative equity, which would require them to undertake a mandatory recapitalization or commence dissolution proceedings; · governments may expropriate or nationalize assets or increase their participation in the economy and companies; · governments may impose burdensome taxes or tariffs; · political changes may lead to changes in the economic conditions and business environment in which we operate; and · economic downturns, political instability and civil disturbances may negatively affect our operations. Finally, our operations are dependent, in many cases, on concessions and other agreements with existing governments in the countries in which we operate. These concessions and agreements, including their renewal, could be directly affected by economic and political instability, altering the terms and conditions under which we operate. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate or financial investment risks. We are exposed to various types of market risk in the normal course of our business, including the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the impact of changes in interest rates, as well as the impact of changes of credit risk in our treasury investments or in some of our financial transactions. We employ risk management strategies to manage this exposure, in part through the use of financial derivatives such as foreign currency forwards, currency swap agreements and interest rate swap agreements. If the financial derivatives market is not sufficiently liquid for our risk management purposes, or if we cannot enter into arrangements of the type and 4 Table of Contents for the amounts necessary to limit our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations or if our counterparties fail to deliver on their commitments due to lack of solvency or otherwise, such failure could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Also, our other risk management strategies may not be successful, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Moreover, if the rating of our counterparties in treasury investments or in our financial transactions deteriorates significantly or if any of such counterparties were to fail in its obligations to us, we may suffer a loss of value in our investments, incur unexpected losses and assume additional financial obligations under these transactions, and such failure could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. For a more detailed description of our financial derivatives transactions, see “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” and Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Adverse economic conditions could reduce the purchase of our products and services. Our business is impacted by general economic conditions and other similar factors in each of the countries in which we operate. The current adverse economic environment and uncertainty about present global economic conditions may negatively affect the level of demand of existing and prospective customers, as our services may not be deemed critical for these customers. Other factors that could influence customer demand include access to credit, consumer confidence and other general macroeconomic factors. In addition, there could be other possible follow-on effects from the financial crisis on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers or customers. A loss of customers or a reduction in purchases by our current customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and may negatively affect our ability to meet our growth targets. Existing or worsening conditions in the international financial markets may limit our ability to carry out our business plan. The development and distribution of our services as well as the operation, expansion and upgrading of our networks and the fulfillment of our dividend payout commitment to our shareholders, require substantial financing. Moreover, our liquidity and capital resource requirements may increase if we participate in other fixed line or mobile license award processes or make acquisitions. We also have major capital resource requirements relating to, among other things, the development of distribution channels in new countries of operations and the development and implementation of new technologies. If our ability to generate cash flow were to decrease, whether due to the current financial and economic crisis or otherwise, we may need to incur additional debt or raise other forms of capital to support our liquidity and capital resource requirements for the ongoing development and expansion of our business. The current financial crisis affecting the international banking system and financial markets generally has resulted in a significant tightening of credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and high volatility in credit, equity and currency markets. Existing or worsening conditions in the international credit markets may make it more difficult and more expensive to refinance our financial debt (of which €7,014 million matures in 2009) or to incur additional debt. For example, in February 2009 we issued €2 billion in principal amount of five-year bonds with a spread of 250 basis points over swaps, approximately 150 basis points higher than what we paid on bonds issued with the same tenor in May 2008, although in a lower principal amount (€1.25 billion). In addition, our capacity to raise capital in the international capital markets would be impaired if our credit ratings were downgraded, whether due to decreases in our cash flow or otherwise. Further, current market conditions may make it more difficult to renew our unused bilateral credit facilities scheduled to expire prior to December 31, 2009 (for an aggregate amount of €2,720 million). The current financial and economic crisis may also make it more difficult and costly for us to launch a rights issue to our current shareholders or to raise additional equity capital if further funds were needed for pursuing our business plans. 5 Table of Contents The successful implementation of our strategy for our mobile operations in Brazil depends on the development of our joint venture company with Portugal Telecom, SGPS, S.A. Our mobile business in Brazil is conducted through a 50/50 joint venture company, Brasilcel, N.V., or Brasilcel, which is jointly controlled by us and Portugal Telecom SGPS, S.A., or Portugal Telecom. As a result of our less than controlling interest in this joint venture, we do not have absolute control over the operations of the venture. As a result, there is an inherent risk for management or operational disruptions whenever a disagreement between us and our partner arises. Therefore, we must cooperate with Portugal Telecom in order to implement and expand upon our business strategies and to finance and manage the operations of the joint venture. If we do not manage to obtain the cooperation of Portugal Telecom or if a disagreement or deadlock arises we may not achieve the expected benefits from this joint venture, including economies of scale and opportunities to achieve potential synergies and cost savings. Risks Relating to Our Industry We face intense competition in most of our markets, which could result in decreases in current and potential customers, revenues and profitability. We face significant competition in all of the markets in which we operate, and we are therefore subject to the effects of actions by our competitors in these markets. Our competitors could: · offer lower prices, more attractive discount plans or better services and features; · develop and deploy more rapidly new or improved technologies, services and products; · launch bundle offerings of one type of service with others; · in the case of the mobile industry, subsidize handset procurement; or · expand and enhance their networks more rapidly. Furthermore, some of our competitors in certain markets have, and some potential competitors may enjoy, in certain markets, competitive advantages, including the following: · greater brand name recognition; · greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources; · dominant position or significant market power; · better strategic alliances; · larger customer bases; and · well-established relationships with current and potential customers. To compete effectively with our competitors, we need to successfully market our products and services and to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the relevant markets, such as the introduction of new products and services by our competitors, pricing strategies adopted by our competitors and changes in consumer preferences and in general economic, political and social conditions. If we are unable to effectively compete, it could result in price reductions, lower revenues, under-utilization of our services, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 6 Table of Contents We operate in a highly regulated industry, which could adversely affect our businesses. As a multinational telecommunications company that operates in regulated markets, we are subject to different laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we provide services. Furthermore, the licensing, construction, operation and interconnection arrangements of our communications systems are regulated to varying degrees by the European Union, national, state, regional and local authorities. Furthermore, our activities are subject to strict regulation in many of the countries and market segments in which we operate, particularly in many areas of the fixed telephony business. Regulatory authorities regularly intervene in the offering and pricing of our products and services. Furthermore, they could also adopt regulations or take other actions that could adversely affect us, including revocation of or failure to renew any of our licenses, authorizations or concessions, changes in the spectrum allocation, revocation of or failure to renew authorizations or concessions to offer services in a particular market, changes in the regulation of international roaming prices and mobile termination rates, introduction of virtual mobile operators, and regulation of the local loop. Such regulatory actions could place significant competitive and pricing pressure on our operations, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Regulatory policies applicable in many of the countries in which we operate are designed to increase competition in most of our market segments, especially in the fixed telephony, broadband and mobile telephony segments, including by, among other methods, granting new licenses in existing licensed territories in order to permit the entry of new competitors or imposing special rules and obligations upon currently present operators, such as the requirement for number portability in those countries where it has not yet been implemented. Since these regulatory policies are designed to favor the entry and establishment of new operators, they are likely to have the effect, over time, of reducing our market share in the relevant markets in which we operate. In addition, since we hold a leading market share in many of the counties where we operate, we could face regulatory actions by the European Union or national antitrust or competition authorities if it is determined that we have prevented restricted or distorted competition in such markets. These authorities could prohibit us from taking further actions such as making further acquisitions or continuing to engage in particular practices or impose fines or other penalties on us, which, if significant, could result in loss of market share and harm to our financial performance and future growth. Furthermore, we can expect the regulatory landscape to change in Europe as a consequence of the revised regulations resulting from the review of the common regulatory framework currently in place in the European Union. These revised regulations are expected to be approved at the end of 2009 or the beginning of 2010 and could result in increases in the regulatory pressure on the competitive environment in every national market. This could lead national regulatory authorities to impose as a remedy in certain and exceptional circumstances the functional separation of the retail and wholesale operations of operators with significant market power, or the regulation and supervision of the wholesale and retail markets via the creation of a new European body composed of national regulatory authorities. We may also face new regulatory initiatives in the area of mobile telecommunications in Europe, including increased regulatory pressure on international roaming tariffs for data and SMS services and on mobile termination rates. In addition, we may also face pressure from regulatory initiatives in some European countries regarding the reform of spectrum rights of use and spectrum allocation. Finally, the recent adoption of new regulations regarding wholesale services (such as access to ducts or dark fiber) in Spain may result in an increase of competitive pressures in the provision of high speed telecommunication services. For further information regarding the matters discussed above and other aspects of the regulatory environments in which our businesses operate, see “