ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the following risks occur, our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected in amounts that could be material. Risks Related to Our Business If it is determined that our business practices violate state gaming laws or regulations, we could be subject to claims for damages, fines or other penalties and may be prohibited from accepting pari-mutuel wagers from these states in the future. We currently have licenses in the states of California, Idaho, Oregon, Virginia and Washington to operate an ADW multi-jurisdictional wagering hub and/or to accept wagers from residents of such states. We also accept pari-mutuel wagers from subscribers in other states where, we believe, accepting such wagers is permitted pursuant to the Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978, as amended, state laws, and certain other laws and legal principles, including those contained in the U.S. Constitution. However, state attorneys general and gaming regulators may interpret state gaming laws, the federal statutes and constitutional principles and doctrines in a narrower manner than we do. If a federal or state court were to adopt such a narrow interpretation of these laws, we may face criminal or civil damages, fines or other penalties and may be prohibited from accepting pari-mutuel wagers in one or more states in the future, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents In addition, if any proceedings were brought by governmental or private litigants who disagree with our interpretation of the applicable laws, the adverse publicity and cost of such litigation and diversion of management’s focus and time away from our business operations may have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we have received correspondence from various state governmental agencies inquiring into the legality of our business activities and, in certain circumstances, alleging our non-compliance with state gaming laws. To date, we have responded in a timely manner to all of these inquiries outlining our legal position, which we believe permits our business operations in such states. We cannot assure you that any of these state governmental agencies agree with our legal position or that proceedings intended to prohibit or restrict our business will not be brought against us by one or more of these state governmental agencies in the future. Furthermore, a number of states have considered, enacted or are considering interactive and Internet gaming legislation and regulations which may inhibit our ability to do business in such states or reduce the profitability of doing business in such states, and anti-gaming conclusions and recommendations of other governmental or quasi-governmental bodies could form the basis for new laws, regulations and enforcement policies that could have a material adverse impact on our business. The extensive regulation by both state and federal authorities of gaming activities also can be significantly affected by changes in the political climate and changes in economic and regulatory policies. Such effects could be materially adverse to us. Laws and regulations proposed by Congress and various state legislatures or federal or state authorities that are directly applicable to online and Internet gambling could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006, (the “UIGEA”), was signed into law on October 13, 2006. On November 12, 2008, the Department of Treasury and Federal Reserve Board jointly published the final rule (the “UIGEA Rule”) implementing the UIGEA. The UIGEA includes certain racing protective provisions by maintaining the status quo with respect to wagering activities under the Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978, as amended. Certain versions of this legislation and other bills introduced in prior years have not included exemptions applicable to our business, and we cannot be certain legislation will not be introduced in the future that could threaten to materially and adversely affect our business. A number of states have enacted, considered or are considering interactive and Internet gaming legislation and regulations which may or may not be worded so as to permit our business to continue in such states; and anti-gaming conclusions and recommendations of other governmental or quasi-governmental bodies could form the basis for new laws, regulations, or enforcement policies that could have a material adverse effect on our business. International expansion of our business could result in our business being subject to laws and regulations of additional foreign jurisdictions, and changes in such laws and regulations or enforcement policies could have a material adverse effect on our business. If credit card companies, banks or third party processing companies, as a policy, refuse to process account wagering transactions as a result of perceived legal uncertainty surrounding online live event wagering, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Credit card companies, banks and third party processing companies may in the future become hesitant to process deposits, fees and online transactions by our customers as a result of perceived legal uncertainty, including perceived uncertainty under the UIEGA and the UIGEA Rule, which prohibit the acceptance of credit cards, electronic funds transfers, checks, or the proceeds of other financial transactions by persons engaged in unlawful betting or wagering businesses, even though the UIEGA contains a specific exemption for activities that are permitted under the Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978. The refusal by credit card companies, banks and third party processing companies to process such transactions would limit the methods of payment available to our subscribers, reducing the convenience of our services, and may make competitive services more attractive. This may adversely affect our business. If the federal government or state governments impose taxes on wagers or increase fees on wagers, our business could be adversely affected. If one or more governmental authorities successfully assert that we should collect taxes on wagers, it could adversely affect our business. We do not currently collect taxes on wagers. However, one or more local, state or foreign jurisdictions may seek to tax Internet wagering when a subscriber is physically within their jurisdiction at the time the wager is placed. Such taxes, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We currently pay all applicable fees on wagers in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the jurisdictions where we are licensed and regulated. If the regulatory authorities in such jurisdictions increase the fees required to be paid on wagers, it would have a material adverse effect on our business. 10 Table of Contents If any of our significant license and content agreements is terminated or is not renewed, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. TVG has formed purported exclusive relationships with a number of major U.S. horse racetracks. In May 2001, we entered into a license and content agreement with TVG. Pursuant to this agreement, we have a non-exclusive license to access the simulcast audio, video and data content, as well as the wagering pools, of certain racing content at these racetracks. If our agreement with TVG is terminated or if such relationships between TVG and such racetracks are terminated or not renewed, and if, following any such termination or non-renewal, we are not able to license such content directly from the track operators, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We also have content agreements with TrackNet, NYRA and Hollywood Park which allow us to access the video and data content, as well as the wagering pools, of certain racing content controlled by them or their affiliates. If any of these content agreements are terminated or we are not able to renew such agreements, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We face strong competition, and we expect competition to increase. TVG, which operates an ADW website and the Television Games Network, is a direct competitor in the interactive, pari-mutuel wagering market. The Television Games Network is a 24-hour national racing channel for distribution over cable, Dish Network and DIRECTV®, along with an in-home pari-mutuel wagering system that requires a dedicated television set-top box. TVG currently operates in 15 states. Expansion by TVG into states where TVG does not currently operate would increase competition for us. In January 2009, Betfair completed its purchase of TVG. Changes by Betfair in the operation of TVG, including investment of significant resources into the operation of TVG or expansion into states where TVG currently does not operate, would increase competition for us. Magna and its affiliated ADW website XpressBet, and Churchill Downs and its affiliated ADW website Twinspires.com, are also direct competitors in the domestic interactive, pari-mutuel wagering market. In March 2007, Magna and Churchill Downs announced that they had formed a joint venture called TrackNet through which the companies’ horse racing content would be available to each other’s various distribution platforms, including XpressBet and Twinspires, and to third parties, including racetracks, casinos and other ADW providers. Magna and Churchill Downs also jointly own Horse Racing Television. For more information about TrackNet, see Item 1. “Business—Competition”. Other competitors include Elite Turf Club, Racing & Gaming Services, Premier Turf Club, The Racing Channel, doing business as Oneclickbetting.com, Lien Games, and AmWest Entertainment. We expect to compete with these entities, as well as new companies which may enter the interactive, pari-mutuel gaming market. It is possible that our current and potential competitors may have greater resources than us. The refusal by horsemen’s groups to approve content agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business. In 2008, the Thoroughbred Horsemen’s Group (“THG”), a collection of horsemen’s groups from several states, refused to approve agreements for the distribution of certain content by ADW operators pursuant to the Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978. It is possible that the THG, other collections of horsemen groups, or individual horsemen groups, could refuse to approve such agreements in the future and such refusal may limit the content we could provide to our customers and therefore have a material adverse affect on our business. Our inability to retain our relationships with our content providers would have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend upon a limited number of suppliers for the majority of our premier content, and the cancellation or non-renewal of our license agreements with any one of those suppliers, such as TrackNet, NYRA, Del Mar or Hollywood Park, would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our inability to retain our core customer base or our failure to attract new customers would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our data mining software generates detailed customer segmentation analyses based on variables such as wagering propensities and preferences, which allows us to personalize our product offerings through targeted special offers tailored to specific customer segments. We believe that these techniques help us to retain our best customers. In addition, our marketing relationships with the Daily Racing Form and others help us attract new customers. If we are unable to retain our core customer base through robust content offerings and other popular features, if we lose customers to our competitors, or if we fail to attract new customers, our businesses would fail to grow or would be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Current economic climate may adversely impact customers wager frequency and amounts. The continuing credit crisis, increasing unemployment and the stock market declines may impact our customers’ ability to wager with the same frequency and maintain their wagering level profiles. A significant loss of customers or a considerable decline in wagering would adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, the current economic climate could adversely impact wagering levels and profitability at racetracks from which we carry racing content, which may cause certain racetracks to cancel races or cease operations and therefore reduce the content we could provide to our customers. A reduction in the content we provide to our customers could reduce our revenue and have an adverse impact on our profitability. System failures or damage from earthquakes, fires, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins or other unforeseen events could harm our business. Our business depends upon our communications hardware and our computer hardware. Currently, our hardware is stored in two different locations. Our web services and internet connection hardware are located in a Tier IV co-location facility in Miami, Florida. Our AV distribution systems are stored at a co-location facility in Denver, Colorado. We have built certain redundancies into our systems to avoid downtime in the event of outages, system failures or damage; however, we do not have duplicate geographic locations for our site of operations. Thus, our systems remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, hardware or software error, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and similar events. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Any unscheduled interruption in the availability of our website and our services results in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenue. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential users to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid our site, and could permanently harm our reputation and brand. These interruptions also increase the burden on our engineering staff, which, in turn, could delay our introduction of new features and services on our website. We have property and business interruption insurance covering damage or interruption of our systems. However, this insurance might not be sufficient to compensate us for all losses that may occur. We may not be able to respond to rapid technological changes in a timely manner or without service interruptions, which may cause customer dissatisfaction. The gaming sector is characterized by the rapid development of new technologies and continuous introduction of new products. Our main technological advantage versus potential competitors is our software lead-time in the market and our experience in operating an Internet-based wagering network. However, we may not be able to maintain our competitive technological position against current and potential competitors, especially those with greater financial resources. Our success depends upon new product development and technological advancements, including the development of new wagering platforms. While we expend a significant amount of resources on research and development and product enhancement, we may not be able to continue to improve and market our existing products or technologies or develop and market new products in a timely manner. Further technological developments may cause our products or technologies to become obsolete or noncompetitive. If we were to lose the services of key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our future success depends in a large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. They are critical to our overall management, as well as the development of our technology, culture and strategic direction. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing, finance/accounting and customer service personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may not be able to retain and attract such employees. Our operating results fluctuate seasonally and may be adversely impacted by a reduction in live racing dates as a result of regulatory factors. We experience significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results as a result of the seasonality associated with the racing schedules. Generally, revenue is greater in the second and third quarters of the calendar year. We carry a limited number of live racing dates and the number of live racing dates varies somewhat from year to year. The allocation of live racing dates in most of the jurisdictions is subject to regulatory approval from year to year and, in any given year, there may not be the same or more racing dates than in prior years. A significant decrease in the number of live racing dates would reduce our revenue and cause our businesses to suffer. 12 Table of Contents If the horse racing tracks that we carry experience unfavorable weather, it may cause races to be cancelled which would reduce our revenue and have an adverse impact on our profitability. Because horse racing is conducted outdoors, unfavorable weather conditions, including extremely high or low temperatures, excessive precipitation, storms or hurricanes, may cause races to be cancelled. Because a substantial portion of our operating expenses are fixed, a reduction in the number of races held or in the number of horses racing due to unfavorable weather would reduce our revenue and have an adverse impact on our profitability. A horse racing industry controversy could cause a decline in bettor confidence and result in changes to legislation, regulation or industry practices, which could materially reduce the amount wagered on horse racing and increase our costs, and therefore, adversely affect our revenue and operating results. A horse racing industry controversy could cause a decline in bettor confidence and result in changes to legislation, regulation or industry practices. For example, on October 26, 2002, in connection with the Breeders’ Cup World Thoroughbred Championships held at Arlington Park in Chicago, Illinois, only one person placed winning bets on the Pick 6, a bet to pick the winning horse in six consecutive races. The bettor purchased all six winning tickets, valued at more than $2.5 million, through an off-track betting telephone system. Payment of the winnings was withheld when an examination of the winning bets revealed an unusual betting pattern. Scientific Games Corporation, the parent company of Autotote Systems, Inc., later announced that it had fired an employee who had allegedly accessed the totalizator system operated by Autotote Systems, altered the winning Pick 6 tickets, and erased the record of his access. The Federal Bureau of Investigation conducted an investigation, and three individuals pled guilty in federal court to conspiring to commit fraud and money laundering. Industry controversy, like the Pick 6 matter, could result in a perceived lack of integrity or security, a decline in bettor confidence, and could lead to a decline in the amount wagered on horse racing. Any such controversy could lead to changes in legislation, regulation or industry practices, which could result in a material reduction in the amount wagered on horse racing and in the revenue and earnings of companies in the horse racing industry, including us. The inability of our systems and controls to handle online security risks would have a material adverse effect on our business. We use packet filters, fire walls and proxy servers which are all designed to control and filter the data allowed to enter our data centers. However, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments may make it easier for someone to compromise or breach the technology we use to protect our subscribers’ transaction data. If such a breach of security were to occur, it could cause interruptions in service and loss of data or cessation in service to our subscribers. This may also allow someone to introduce a “virus” or other harmful component to Youbet causing an interruption or malfunction. To the extent our activities involve the storage and transmission of information such as credit card numbers, security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, as well as costs of complying with laws governing disclosure and remediation following such breaches. Our insurance policies might not be sufficient to reimburse us for losses caused by such security breaches. The U.S. government’s investigation into the wagering activities of certain IRG customers may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The U.S. government’s investigation into the wagering activities of certain IRG customers resulted in the seizure of approximately $1.5 million held in IRG bank accounts on October 11, 2007, among other things. On March 14, 2008, we entered into agreements with the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Las Vegas. Pursuant to one agreement, the U.S. Attorney’s Office agreed not to pursue any charges against Youbet or IRG in exchange for our continued cooperation with the government’s ongoing investigation. In separate agreements, we agreed to forfeit approximately $1.5 million previously seized by the government as part of its investigation. While these agreements resolve the matter for Youbet, the U.S. government’s ongoing investigation creates other ancillary risks. Our continued cooperation with the U.S. government’s investigation may continue to divert management’s attention from managing our day-to-day operations and expenses arising from cooperating and responding to the U.S. government’s investigation may be significant. In addition, current and former employees, officers and directors may seek indemnification, advancement or reimbursement of expenses from us, including attorneys’ fees, with respect to current or future proceedings related to this matter. These events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. 13 Table of Contents Our credit facility imposes significant restrictions on us. Our credit facility, which consists of a $5.0 million revolving line of credit and a $10.0 million term loan and matures on November 30, 2010, contains customary covenants under the loan and security agreement, including restrictions on our ability to incur indebtedness, make investments, pay dividends or engage in mergers and acquisitions. The loan and security agreement also contains certain financial covenants, including (i) a requirement to maintain a specified debt service coverage ratio, (ii) a requirement to maintain a leverage ratio not to exceed 2:1, (iii) a requirement to maintain a certain specified adjusted EBITDA and (iv) limitations on capital expenditures. Our indebtedness under the loan and security agreement is guaranteed by UT Gaming, Inc., the direct parent of United Tote Company, and secured by substantially all of our assets, including our intellectual property, and UT Gaming’s equity in United Tote Company. The covenants contained in the loan and security agreement may limit our ability to expand, pursue our business strategies and obtain additional funds. Our ability to meet the financial covenants in the loan and security agreement may be adversely affected by deterioration in business conditions or our results of operations, adverse regulatory developments and other events beyond our control. As of December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with financial covenants under the loan and security agreement. Failure to comply with these covenants may result in the occurrence of an event of default. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lender may terminate our credit facility and demand immediate payment of all amounts borrowed by us, which would have adverse consequences on our business and results of operations and may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to United Tote United Tote‘s totalizator business depends on its relationships with its track and other partners for a substantial portion of its revenue. The loss of all or a portion of these relationships could result in the failure to realize the expected level of revenue from United Tote‘s totalizator business. United Tote has contracts to provide totalizator services to more than 100 tracks and other facilities that accept pari-mutuel wagers, such as off-track betting parlors, casinos, and jai alai frontons. As a result, the success of United Tote depends, in part, on our ability to maintain successful relationships with United Tote’s contract partners. Should these contract partners discontinue purchasing totalizator services from United Tote, we will fail to realize our expected level of revenue from United Tote’s totalizator business. United Tote‘s totalizator business depends on the total amount of wagers placed with its track partners. Many of United Tote’s contracts provide that it will receive a percentage of the pari-mutuel wagers for which it provides totalizator services. As the amount of pari-mutuel wagering increase, United Tote’s revenue increases. Accordingly, a decrease in wagers placed at one or more of United Tote’s contract partners could cause a decline in United Tote’s revenue and, in turn, our consolidated revenue as the owner of United Tote. Further, any material reduction by any one of United Tote’s contract partners in its level of commitment of resources, funding, personnel, and interest in continued development of horse racing or other wagering-based businesses could cause a decline in wagering and United Tote’s and our consolidated revenue. United Tote‘s totalizator business depends upon leading with and responding to technological changes. United Tote’s success depends upon new product development and technological advancements, including the development of more advanced wagering terminals. While United Tote devotes resources to research and development and product enhancement, it may not be able to continue to improve and market existing products or technologies or successfully develop and market new products in a timely manner. Further technological developments by competitors may cause United Tote products or technologies to become obsolete or noncompetitive. Technological or human errors could have a material adverse effect on United Tote’s totalizator business Errors by United Tote technology or personnel may subject United Tote to liabilities, including financial penalties under its totalizator service contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on United Tote’s business. Current economic conditions may lead to a cessation or reduction of operations by United Tote’s contract partners that could have a material adverse effect on United Tote’s totalizator business. The continuing credit crisis, increasing unemployment and the stock market declines may impact the ability of United Tote’s contract partners to continue operations at current levels. A cessation or reduction of operations by United Tote’s contract partners could cause them to discontinue or limit the totalizator services they purchase from United Tote, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock If we fail to continue to meet all applicable Nasdaq Capital Market requirements and Nasdaq determines to delist our common stock, the delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock, impair the value of your investment and harm our business. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. In order to maintain that listing, we must satisfy minimum financial and other requirements. One such requirement is a $1.00 per share minimum bid price. For example, in March 2008, our common stock did not meet the $1.00 per share minimum bid price requirement for 30 consecutive business days, and on March 31, 2008, Nasdaq delivered a notice regarding our noncompliance with their continued listing requirements. The share price subsequently increased above $1.00 for the minimum time period specified by Nasdaq and the situation was cured. If, in the future, our share price drops below the minimum bid price requirement for the applicable period prescribed by Nasdaq, our common stock would be delisted if we are unable to demonstrate compliance within the applicable grace period. On October 16, 2008, the Nasdaq temporarily suspended the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement until January 16, 2009 and has now extended the temporary suspension until April 20, 2009. In such a scenario, we may seek stockholder approval to affect a reverse stock split to cause an increase in the trading price of our common stock to a level above the minimum bid price requirement. However, a reverse stock split may not prevent the common stock from dropping back down towards the Nasdaq minimum per share price requirement or below the required level. It is also possible that we would otherwise fail to satisfy another Nasdaq requirement for continued listing of our common stock. If we fail to meet all applicable Nasdaq Capital Market requirements in the future and Nasdaq determines to delist our common stock, the delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock, adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and harm our business. This delisting could also impair the value of your investment. The share price of our common stock may be volatile and can decline further. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of issues, including broad market factors that may have a material adverse impact on our stock price, regardless of actual performance. These factors include the following: • periodic variations in the actual or anticipated financial results of our business or that of our competitors; • downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates of our future operating results or of the future operating results of our competitors; • material announcements by us or our competitors; • public sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock; and • adverse changes in general market conditions or economic trends or in conditions or trends in the markets in which we operate. If our quarterly results are below the expectations of securities market analysts and investors, the price of our common stock may decline further. Many factors, including those described in this report, can affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which makes the prediction of our financial results difficult. These factors include: • changes in market conditions that can affect the demand for horse race wagering; • general economic conditions that affect the availability of disposable income among consumers; and • the actions of our competitors. 15 Table of Contents If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of securities market analysts and investors due to these or other risks, securities analysts may downgrade our common stock and some of our stockholders may sell their shares, which could adversely affect the trading prices of our common stock. We have the ability to issue additional equity securities, which would lead to further dilution of our issued and outstanding common stock. The issuance of additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities would result in dilution of then-existing stockholders’ equity interests in us. We may from time to time seek additional capital to fund operations and reduce liabilities in response to changes in the business environment. To raise capital, we may seek to sell additional equity securities, issue debt or convertible securities or seek to obtain credit facilities through financial institutions or other resources. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue, without vote or action of stockholders, up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series, and has the ability to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of any such series. Any such series of preferred stock could contain dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences or other rights superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. If we issue convertible preferred stock, a subsequent conversion may dilute the current common stockholders’ interest. Our Board of Directors has no present intention of issuing any such preferred stock, but reserves the right to do so in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 