ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the following risks occur, our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected in amounts that could be material. Risks Related to Our Business If it is determined that our business practices violate state gaming laws or regulations, we could be subject to claims for damages, fines or other penalties and may be prohibited from accepting pari-mutuel wagers from these states in the future. We currently have licenses in the states of California, Idaho, Oregon and Washington to operate an ADW multi-jurisdictional wagering hub and/or to accept wagers from residents of such states. We also accept pari-mutuel wagers from subscribers in other states where, we believe, accepting such wagers is permitted pursuant to the Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978, as amended, state laws, and certain other laws and legal principles, including those contained in the U.S. Constitution. However, state attorneys general and gaming regulators may interpret state gaming laws, the federal statutes and constitutional principles and doctrines in a narrower manner than we do. If a federal or state court were to adopt such a narrow interpretation of these laws, we may face criminal or civil damages, fines or other penalties and may be prohibited from accepting pari-mutuel wagers in one or more states in the future, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, if any proceedings were brought by governmental or private litigants who disagree with our interpretation of the applicable laws, the adverse publicity, cost of such litigation and diversion of management’s focus and time away from our business operations may have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we have received correspondence from various state governmental agencies inquiring into the legality of our business activities and, in certain circumstances, alleging our non-compliance with state gaming laws. To date, we have responded in a timely manner to all of these inquiries outlining our legal position, which we believe permits our business operations in such states. We cannot assure you that any of these state governmental agencies agree with our legal position or that proceedings intended to prohibit or restrict our business will not be brought against us by one or more of these state governmental agencies in the future. 7 Table of Contents Furthermore, a number of states have considered, enacted or are considering interactive and Internet gaming legislation and regulations which may inhibit our ability to do business in such states, and anti-gaming conclusions and recommendations of other governmental or quasi-governmental bodies could form the basis for new laws, regulations and enforcement policies that could have a material adverse impact on our business. The extensive regulation by both state and federal authorities of gaming activities also can be significantly affected by changes in the political climate and changes in economic and regulatory policies. Such effects could be materially adverse to Youbet and IRG. Laws and regulations proposed by Congress and various state legislatures or federal or state authorities that are directly applicable to online and Internet gambling could have a material adverse effect on our business. After nearly a decade of consideration, Congress recently passed Internet gambling legislation. The Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006, or the Act, was signed into law on October 13, 2006. This Act includes certain racing protective provisions by maintaining the status quo with respect to wagering activities under the Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978, as amended. Certain versions of this legislation and other bills introduced in prior years have not included exemptions applicable to our business, and we cannot be certain legislation will not be introduced in the future that could threaten to materially and adversely affect our business. A number of states have enacted, considered or are considering interactive and Internet gaming legislation and regulations which may or may not be worded so as to permit our business to continue in such states; and anti-gaming conclusions and recommendations of other governmental or quasi-governmental bodies could form the basis for new laws, regulations, or enforcement policies that could have a material adverse effect on our business. International expansion of our business may be subject to regulation in those countries in which it is made available. We believe that we can operate or license technology in numerous jurisdictions that allow telephone and account wagering. However, we may not be able to obtain the approvals necessary to market our services in such jurisdictions. If credit card companies, as a policy, refuse to process wagering account transactions as a result of perceived legal uncertainty surrounding online live event wagering, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Credit card companies may in the future become hesitant to process deposits, fees and online transactions by our customers. This would limit the methods of payment available to our subscribers, reducing the convenience of our services, and may make competitive services more attractive. This may adversely affect our business. If the federal government or state governments impose taxes on wagers, our business could be adversely affected. If one or more governmental authorities successfully asserts that we should collect taxes on wagers, it could adversely affect our business. We do not currently collect taxes on wagers. We pay all applicable taxes to the State of Oregon where IRG and Youbet both have Oregon licenses and are currently regulated. However, one or more local, state or foreign jurisdictions may seek to tax online and Internet wagering when a subscriber is physically within their jurisdiction at the time the wager is placed. Such taxes, if imposed, would have a material adverse effect on our business. If our license and content agreement with TVG is terminated or is not renewed, and if we are not able to license such content directly from the track operators, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. TVG has formed purported exclusive relationships with a number of major U.S. horse tracks. In May 2001, we entered into a license and content agreement with TVG. Pursuant to this agreement, we have a non-exclusive license to access the simulcast audio, video and data content, as well as the wagering pools, of certain racing content at these racetracks. If our agreement with TVG is terminated or is not renewed, or if such relationships between TVG and such racetracks are terminated or not renewed, and if, following any such termination or non-renewal, we are not able to license such content directly from the track operators, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We face strong competition from the Television Games Network and others. We believe that our principal domestic competitor in the interactive, pari-mutuel gaming market is TVG, which operates an ADW website and the Television Games Network. The Television Games Network is a 24-hour national racing channel for distribution over cable and DIRECTV®, along with an in-home pari-mutuel wagering system that requires a dedicated television set-top box. Further expansion of the Television Games Network’s product and expansion of its purported exclusive relationships may make it difficult for us to grow our subscriber base and to obtain quality racing content. Additionally, if exclusive relationships account for a significant number of horse tracks, TVG may be able to secure relationships with additional horse tracks on more favorable terms than us. 8 Table of Contents We compete with several other companies, including America Tab, doing business as Win Ticket, XpressbetTM, a division of Magna Entertainment Corp., and the Racing Channel, doing business as Oneclickbetting.com. Worldwide, numerous other Internet and interactive ventures exist. We expect to compete with these entities, as well as new companies which may enter the interactive, pari-mutuel gaming market. It is possible that our current and potential competitors may have greater resources than us. If, in response to allegations brought before the WTO, the U.S. government amends existing laws to exempt foreign providers of online gambling, or restricts domestic service providers, our business could be adversely affected. On April 7, 2005, the Appellate Body of the World Trade Organization, referred to as the WTO, circulated its report in a dispute settlement proceeding brought by the Government of Antigua and Barbuda, referred to as Antigua, challenging certain U.S. measures affecting the cross-border supply of gambling and betting services. Antigua claimed that certain federal and state laws have the effect of prohibiting the supply of gambling services from outside the U.S. in violation of certain U.S. obligations under the General Agreement on Trade in Services, referred to as GATS. In relevant part, Antigua argued that the U.S. was discriminating between domestic and foreign remote suppliers of wagering services for horse racing because the Interstate Horseracing Act purports to exempt domestic service suppliers, like Youbet, from the prohibitions of the Wire Act, the Travel Act and the Illegal Gambling Business Act, but does not exempt foreign services suppliers. The Appellate Body of the WTO found, inter alia, “that the U.S. has not shown, in light of the Interstate Horseracing Act that the prohibitions embodied in [the Wire Act, the Travel Act and the Illegal Gambling Business Act] are applied to both foreign and domestic service suppliers of remote betting services for horse racing, and therefore, has not established that these measures satisfy the requirements of [Article XIV of the GATS].” On April 20, 2005, the Appellate Body report was adopted by the Dispute Settlement Body, referred to as the DSB, of the WTO, and the U.S. was requested to bring its measures into conformity with its obligations under the GATS. The United States was given until April 5, 2006 to do so. In a submission to the WTO dated April 10, 2006, the Office of the United States Trade Representative, or the USTR, noted that a U.S. Department of Justice official had provided the following information in April 5, 2006 testimony before a Congressional committee: “The Department of Justice views the existing criminal statutes as prohibiting the interstate transmission of bets or wagers, including wagers on horse races. The Department is currently undertaking a civil investigation relating to a potential violation of law regarding this activity. We have previously stated that we do not believe that the Interstate Horse Racing Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 3001-3007, amended the existing criminal statutes.” The USTR reported, in light of these circumstances, that the United States is in compliance with its WTO obligations. On June 8, 2006, Antigua initiated proceedings in the WTO to challenge the U.S. position and to determine whether the United States is in compliance with the panel and Appellate Body findings adopted in 2005. Should the WTO find that the United States has not complied with its commitments, Antigua may seek authorization to impose trade retaliation against the United States. Although the WTO decision and the U.S. Government’s recent submission do not affect any existing federal or state law, we cannot predict what actions, if any, the U.S. Government will take in response to any new WTO proceedings and what effect, if any, the consequences thereof will have on our business and operations. Our inability to retain our relationships with our content providers would have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend upon a limited number of suppliers for the majority of our content, and the cancellation of our relationship with any one of those suppliers would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our right to simulcast and accept wagers on races at a number of the most recognized tracks and races, including The Preakness, one of horse racing’s triple crown races, and the Belmont Shores depends on our license agreement with Magna. Currently, we do not have a contract in place for the Kentucky Derby. The cancellation or non-renewal of our license agreements with these content providers or the cancellation or non-renewal of our agreements with a number of our other content providers would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our inability to retain our core customer base or our failure to attract new customers would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our data mining software generates detailed customer segmentation analyses based on variables such as wagering propensities and preferences, which allows us to personalize our product offerings through targeted special offers tailored to specific customer segments. We believe that these techniques help us to retain our best customers. In addition, our marketing relationships with the Daily Racing Form and others help us attract new customers. If we are unable to retain our core customer base through robust content offerings and other popular features, if we lose customers to our competitors, or if we fail to attract new customers, our businesses would fail to grow or would be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents The integration of acquired businesses may result in substantial costs, delays and other problems. Our future performance will depend on our ability to integrate the businesses that we acquire. To integrate newly acquired businesses, we must integrate certain operations and extend our financial and management controls (such as compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002) and operating, administrative and information systems in a timely manner and on satisfactory terms and conditions. We may not be able to integrate successfully these and other acquired businesses or realize projected cost savings and synergies in connection with those acquisitions on the timetable contemplated, if at all. Furthermore, the costs of integrating acquired businesses could impact significantly our short-term operating results. These costs could include the following: • restructuring charges associated with the acquisitions; and • non-recurring acquisition costs, including accounting and legal fees, investment banking fees, recognition of transaction-related obligations, and various other acquisition-related costs. The integration of newly acquired businesses will require the expenditure of substantial managerial, operating, financial and other resources and may also lead to a diversion of our attention from our ongoing business concerns. Although we perform diligence on the businesses we purchase, in light of the circumstances of each transaction, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding the actual condition of these businesses. We may not be able to ascertain the value or understand the potential liabilities of the acquired businesses and their operations until we assume operating control of the assets and operations of these businesses. Once we acquire a business, we are faced with risks, including the following: • the possibility that we have acquired substantial undisclosed liabilities; • further regulatory approvals; • the risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; • the potential loss of key employees or customers; and • the possibility that we may be unable to recruit additional managers with the necessary skills to supplement the management of the acquired businesses. If we are unsuccessful in overcoming these risks, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. System failures or damage from earthquakes, fires, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins or other unforeseen events could harm our business. Our business depends upon our communications hardware and our computer hardware, substantially all of which are located primarily at a leased facility in Woodland Hills, California. We have built certain redundancies into our systems to avoid downtime in the event of outages, system failures, or damage, however, we do not have duplicate geographic locations for our site of operations. Thus, our systems remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, hardware or software error, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, and similar events. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Any unscheduled interruption in the availability of our website and our services results in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenue. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential users to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid our site, and could permanently harm our reputation and brand. These interruptions also increase the burden on our engineering staff, which, in turn, could delay our introduction of new features and services on our website. We have property and business interruption insurance covering damage or interruption of our systems. However, this insurance might not be sufficient to compensate us for all losses that may occur. 10 Table of Contents We may not be able to respond to rapid technological changes in a timely manner or without service interruptions, which may cause customer dissatisfaction. The gaming sector is characterized by the rapid development of new technologies and continuous introduction of new products. Our main technological advantage versus potential competitors is our software lead-time in the market and our experience in operating an Internet-based wagering network. However, we may not be able to maintain our competitive technological position against current and potential competitors, especially those with greater financial resources. Our success depends upon new product development and technological advancements, including the development of new wagering platforms. While we expend a significant amount of resources on research and development and product enhancement, we may not be able to continue to improve and market our existing products or technologies or develop and market new products in a timely manner. Further technological developments may cause our products or technologies to become obsolete or noncompetitive. If we were to lose the services of Charles Champion, Gary Sproule or other key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our future success depends in a large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. Messrs. Champion and Sproule are critical to our overall management, as well as the development of our technology, our culture and our strategic direction. While Messrs. Champion and Sproule are parties to employment agreements, neither of these agreements prohibits the executive from terminating such an agreement. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing, finance/accounting and customer service personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may not be able to retain and attract such employees. Our operating results fluctuate seasonally and may be adversely impacted by a reduction in live racing dates as a result of regulatory factors. We experience significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results as a result of the seasonality associated with the racing schedules. Generally, revenue is greater in the second and third quarters of the calendar year. Youbet and IRG carry a limited number of live racing dates and the number of live racing dates varies somewhat from year to year. The allocation of live racing dates in most of the jurisdictions is subject to regulatory approval from year to year and, in any given year, there may not be the same or more racing dates than in prior years. A significant decrease in the number of live racing dates would reduce our revenue and cause our businesses to suffer. If the horse racing tracks that we carry experience unfavorable weather, it may cause races to be cancelled which would reduce our revenue and cause our business to suffer. Because horse racing is conducted outdoors, unfavorable weather conditions, including extremely high or low temperatures, excessive precipitation, storms or hurricanes, may cause races to be cancelled. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2005, due largely to inclement weather, we carried 300 fewer races at predominantly premier tracks, than in the fourth quarter of 2004. Because a substantial portion of our operating expenses is fixed, a reduction in the number of races held or in the number of horses racing due to unfavorable weather would reduce our revenue and cause our businesses to suffer. A horse racing industry controversy could cause a decline in bettor confidence and result in changes to legislation, regulation or industry practices, which could materially reduce the amount wagered on horse racing and increase our costs, and therefore, adversely affect our revenue and operating results. A horse racing industry controversy could cause a decline in bettor confidence and result in changes to legislation, regulation or industry practices. For example, on October 26, 2002, in connection with the Breeders’ Cup World Thoroughbred Championships held at Arlington Park in Chicago, Illinois, only one person placed winning bets on the Pick 6, a bet to pick the winning horse in six consecutive races. The bettor purchased all six winning tickets, valued at more than $2.5 million, through an off-track betting telephone system. Payment of the winnings was withheld when an examination of the winning bets revealed an unusual betting pattern. Scientific Games Corporation, the parent company of Autotote Systems, Inc., later announced that it had fired an employee who had allegedly accessed the totalizator system operated by Autotote Systems, altered the winning Pick 6 tickets, and erased the record of his access. The Federal Bureau of Investigation conducted an investigation, and three individuals pled guilty in federal court to conspiring to commit fraud and money laundering. Industry controversy, like the Pick 6 matter, could result in a perceived lack of integrity or security, a decline in bettor confidence, and likely lead to a decline in the amount wagered on horse racing. Any such controversy could lead to changes in legislation, regulation or industry practices, which could result in a material reduction in the amount wagered on horse racing and in the revenue and earnings of companies in the horse racing industry, including us. 11 Table of Contents The inability of our systems and controls to handle online security risks would have a material adverse effect on our business. We use packet filters, firewalls and proxy servers which are all designed to control and filter the data allowed to enter our data centers. However, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments may make it easier for someone to compromise or breach the technology we use to protect our subscribers’ transaction data. If such a breach of security were to occur, it could cause interruptions in service and loss of data or cessation in service to our subscribers. This may also allow someone to introduce a “virus” or other harmful component to Youbet causing an interruption or malfunction. To the extent our activities involve the storage and transmission of information such as credit card numbers, security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Our insurance policies might not be sufficient to reimburse us for losses caused by such security breaches. Our inability to collect revenue due to the NYRA bankruptcy could reduce our revenue and cause our businesses to suffer. The New York Racing Association, or NYRA, is the nonprofit operator of Aqueduct Racetrack, Belmont Park, and Saratoga Race Course. On November 2, 2006, NYRA filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. At December 31, 2006, we had outstanding accounts receivable from NYRA of approximately $0.8 million, and we have not recorded a reserve against these receivables. Any inability to collect the outstanding accounts receivable pursuant to agreements with NYRA because of NYRA’s bankruptcy filing would reduce our revenue and cause our businesses to suffer. Additional Risks Related to United Tote United Tote’s totalizator business depends on its relationships with its track and other partners for a substantial portion of its revenue. The loss of all or a portion of these relationships could result in the failure to realize the expected level of revenue from our acquisition of United Tote. United Tote has contracts to provide totalizator services to more than 100 tracks and other sporting venues that accept wagers, such as Jai Lai. As a result, the success of our acquisition of United Tote depends, in part, on our ability to maintain successful relationships with United Tote’s contract partners. Should these contract partners discontinue purchasing totalizator services from United Tote, we will fail to realize our expected increase in revenue from our acquisition of United Tote. United Tote’s totalizator business depends on the total amount of wagers placed with its track partners. Many of United Tote’s contracts provide that it will receive a percentage of the pari-mutuel wagering pools for which it provides totalizator services. As the amount of pari-mutuel pools increases, United Tote’s revenue increases. Accordingly, a decrease in wagers placed at one or more of United Tote’s contract partners could cause a decline in United Tote’s wagers (or revenue) and, in turn, our consolidated revenue as the owner of United Tote. Further, any material reduction by any one of United Tote’s contract partners in its level of commitment of resources, funding, personnel, and interest in continued development of horse racing or other wagering-based businesses could cause a decline in wagering and United Tote’s and our consolidated revenue. United Tote’s totalizator business depends upon leading with and responding to technological changes. United Tote’s success depends upon new product development and technological advancements, including the development of more advanced wagering terminals. While United Tote devotes resources to research and development and product enhancement, it may not be able to continue to improve and market existing products or technologies or successfully develop and market new products in a timely manner. Further technological developments by competitors may cause United Tote products or technologies to become obsolete or noncompetitive. 12 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The share price of our common stock may be volatile and could decline substantially. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of issues, including broad market factors that may have a material adverse impact on our stock price, regardless of actual performance. These factors include the following: • periodic variations in the actual or anticipated financial results of our business or that of our competitors; • downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates of our future operating results or of the future operating results of our competitors; • material announcements by us or our competitors; • public sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock; and • adverse changes in general market conditions or economic trends or in conditions or trends in the markets in which we operate. If our quarterly results are below the expectations of securities market analysts and investors, the price of our common stock may decline. Many factors, including those described in this report, can affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which makes the prediction of our financial results difficult. These factors include: • changes in market conditions that can affect the demand for horse race wagering; • general economic conditions that affect the availability of disposable income among consumers; and • the actions of our competitors. If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of securities market analysts and investors due to these or other risks, securities analysts may downgrade our common stock and some of our stockholders may sell their shares, which could adversely affect the trading prices of our common stock. We have the ability to issue additional equity securities, which would lead to further dilution of our issued and outstanding common stock. The issuance of additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities would result in dilution of then-existing stockholders’ equity interests in us. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue, without vote or action of stockholders, up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series, and has the ability to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of any such series. Any such series of preferred stock could contain dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences or other rights superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. If we issue convertible preferred stock, a subsequent conversion may dilute the current common stockholders’ interest. Our Board of Directors has no present intention of issuing any such preferred stock, but reserves the right to do so in the future. In addition, we may issue up to 57,881,554 shares of common stock that are authorized but not issued, and as of December 31, 2006, 3,640,120 of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock in the aggregate were issuable upon the exercise of vested options. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 13 Table of Contents 