D. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, prospective investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making any investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and results of operations. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Relating to Our Business A material portion of our operations and investments are located in Latin America, and we are therefore exposed to risks inherent in operating and investing in Latin America. At December 31, 2011, approximately 48.5% of our assets were located in our Latin America segment. In addition, approximately 46.5% of our revenues for 2011 were derived from our Latin American segment operations. At December 31, 2011, 54.5% of Latin America assets and 49.0% of Latin America revenues were derived from our operations in Brazil. Our business is thus particularly sensitive to any of the risks relating to Latin America discussed in this section to the extent they arise or manifest themselves in Brazil. Our operations and investments in Latin America (including the revenues generated by these operations, their market value and the dividends and management fees expected to be received therefrom) are subject to various risks linked to the economic, political and social conditions of these countries, including risks related to the following: · government regulation or administrative polices may change unexpectedly, including changes that modify the terms and conditions of concessions and their renewal, which could negatively affect our interests in such countries; · the effects of inflation or currency depreciation or currency restrictions and other restraints on transfers of funds that may be imposed; · governments may expropriate or nationalize assets or increase their participation in the economy and companies; and · economic downturns, political instability and civil disturbances may negatively affect our operations. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate or financial investment risks. We are exposed to various types of market risk in the normal course of our business, including, above all, the impact of changes in interest rates of foreign currency exchange rates. We use a variety of strategies to manage this risk, mainly through the use of financial derivatives, which themselves are suceptible to risks, including counterparty risk. Our risk management strategies may not achieve their desired effect, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For a more detailed description of our financial derivatives transactions, see “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” and Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Adverse economic conditions could reduce purchases of our products and services. Our business is impacted by general economic conditions in each of the countries in which we operate. The current uncertainty about whether the economic recovery will continue may negatively affect the level of demand of existing and prospective customers, as our services may not be deemed critical for these customers. The principal macroeconomic factors that could have an adverse impact on consumption and, accordingly, demand for our services include access to credit, unemployment rates, consumer confidence and other general macroeconomic factors. 10 Existing or worsening conditions in the international financial markets may limit our ability to carry out our business plan. The operation, expansion and upgrading of our networks, the development and distribution of our services as well as the development and implementation of new technologies or license award renewal processes, require substantial financing. International financial markets continue to be affected by current uncertainties surrounding the pace of economic recovery, the health of the international banking system and increasing concerns regarding burgeoning public deficits in certain European countries. Worsening conditions in the international credit markets due to any of these factors may make it more difficult and more expensive to refinance our financial debt (at December 31, 2011, our net average debt scheduled to mature in the next six years was approximately €6,850 million per year) or to incur additional debt, if needed. In addition, if our credit ratings were downgraded, our capacity to raise capital in the international capital markets could be impaired, in terms of access and cost. Although following recent downgrades in our long-term debt we have successfully tapped the capital markets in several instances, we can give no assurance regarding our ability to raise capital in the international capital markets on a timely basis or at all, or at interest rates acceptable to us. Furthermore, market conditions may make it more difficult to renew our unused bilateral credit facilities, 24% of which as of December 31, 2011 are scheduled to mature prior to December 31, 2012. Finally, the current financial situation may also make it more difficult and costly for us to raise additional equity capital. Risks Relating to Our Industry We operate in a highly regulated industry, which could adversely affect our businesses, and we depend on government concessions. As a multinational telecommunications company that operates in regulated markets, we are subject to different laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we provide services. Such laws and regulations are promulgated and enforced to varying degrees by supranational regulators such as the European Union and national, state, regional and local authorities. Regulation is particularly strict in the markets of those countries in which we hold a significant market position. In this respect, regulatory authorities regularly intervene in the retail and wholesale offering and pricing of our products and services and throughout 2011 generally placed downward pressure on wholesale and retail voice rates, roaming rates, termination rates and SMS messaging rates. Additional regulations could require us to further reduce roaming prices and termination rates in mobile and/or fixed line networks, require us to offer access to our network to other operators and result in the imposition of fines if we fail to fulfill our service commitments. Such regulations and regulatory actions could place significant competitive and pricing pressure on our operations, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We provide most of our services under licenses, authorizations and concessions and, as such, are substantially dependent upon them. Regulatory authorities may adopt further regulations or take additional actions that could adversely affect us, including revocation of or failure to renew any of our licenses, authorizations or concessions, implementation of changes to the spectrum allocated to us or the granting or new licenses, authorizations or concessions to our competitors to offer services in the relevant markets. While we pursue license renewals to the extent provided by their contractual terms, we cannot guarantee that we will always complete this process successfully or on beneficial terms for us. In many cases we must satisfy certain obligations, including, among others, minimum specified quality standards, service and coverage conditions and capital investment thresholds in order to qualify for renewal. Failure to comply with these obligations could result in the imposition of fines or even revocation or forfeiture of the license, authorization or concession. In addition, because we hold a leading market share in many of the counties where we operate, we could face regulatory actions by antitrust or competition authorities. These authorities could prohibit us from taking further actions such as making further acquisitions or continuing to engage in particular practices or impose fines or other 11 penalties on us, which, if significant, could result in loss of market share and harm to our financial performance and future growth. For further information regarding the matters discussed above and other aspects of the regulatory environments in which our businesses operate, see “