D. Risk Factors The Telefónica Group’s business is conditioned by a series of intrinsic risk factors that affect exclusively the Group, as well as a series of external factors that are common to businesses of the same sector. The main risks and uncertainties facing the Company which could affect its business, financial position, reputation, corporate image and brand and its results, must be considered jointly with the information in the Consolidated Financial Statements, and are as follows: Group-related risks Worsening of the economic and political environment could negatively affect business. Telefónica’s international presence enables the diversification of its activities across countries and regions, but entails the need of considering various legislations, as well as the political and economic environments of the countries in which it operates. Any adverse developments or even just uncertainties in this regard, or possible exchange-rate or sovereign-risk fluctuations may adversely affect the business, financial position, cash flows and/or the performance of some of the Group’s economic and financial indicators. With respect to the economic environment, the Telefónica Group’s business is impacted by overall economic conditions in each of the countries in which it operates. Economic conditions may adversely affect the level of demand of existing and prospective customers, as they may no longer deem critical the services offered by the Group. The main macroeconomic factors that could have an adverse impact on consumption and, accordingly, on the level of demand for our services and finally, on the Telefónica Group’s results, are: the shortage of credit in an environment of adjustment of banks’ balance sheets; the evolution of the labor market; the worsening of consumer confidence, with an increase in savings rates as an immediate consequence; or the needs for greater fiscal adjustment, which would negatively impact on the household income levels and corporate investments, expenses and revenues. This economic risk might be significant in some European countries which are on the road to recovery but are rebounding more slowly due to financial imbalances that must continue to be corrected. According to the European Economic and Financial Affairs Council, the European economy is expected to have shrunk by 0.4% in 2013 and will only grow 1.1% in 2014, assuming, therefore, that private consumption growth may be weak in certain cases. In this region, the Telefónica Group generated 47% of the Group’s total revenues in 2013 (including 22.7% in Spain, 11.7% in the UK and 8.6% in Germany). Also, the impact of the sovereign debt crisis and the rating downgrades in certain Euro Area countries should be taken into account. Any additional deterioration in the sovereign debt markets, doubts about developments in European projects (e.g. implementation of the banking union project, the results of the European elections or progress towards fiscal integration), as well as further credit restrictions by the banking sector could have an adverse effect on Telefónica’s ability to access funding and/or liquidity which could have a significant adverse effect on the Group’s businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the Group’s business may be affected by other possible effects from the economic crisis, including a possible insolvency of key customers and suppliers. In Latin America, the most important challenge is the exchange-rate risk in Venezuela and Argentina (with a sustained accelerated depreciation of the peso against the U.S. dollar), given the negative impact that a higher than expected depreciation in their currencies could have on cash flows from both countries. The economic outlook for the entire region suggests that growth rates will remain stable at around 3%, supported by solid domestic demand fundamentals. The international scenario, despite being not so favorable as in the past periods, will remain to have a relatively benign impact on the region, except for, among others, potential periods of volatility linked to the evolution of the developed financial markets (especially long-term interest rates in the United States affected by the U.S. Federal Reserve’s intervention that are not discounted in the market), a greater than envisaged economic slowdown in Asia (a key region for Latin America), and the slow progress being made with structural reforms projects in the majority of these countries which limits potentially higher growth rates. The most significant internal macroeconomic risk factors in the region would be the very high inflation rates in Venezuela and Argentina that could lead to economic stagnation in these countries, the delicate situation of Venezuela's public finance, and the deterioration in the external accounts of countries such as Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Peru; though with very different funding outlooks for the latter three (favorable) than the first. In relation to the political environment, the Group’s investments and operations in Latin America could be affected by a series of risks related to economic, political and social factors in these countries, collectively denominated “country risk”. On this point, approximately 15% of our revenues in the telephony business are 15 Table of Contents generated in countries that do not have investment grade status (in order of importance Venezuela, Argentina, Ecuador, Guatemala, Nicaragua, El Salvador and Costa Rica), and other countries are only one notch away from losing this threshold. Also note that despite clear improvements in Brazil, recent announcements by the ratings agencies considering a possible downgrading of its credit rating could, depending on the extent of the downgrading, result in strong exchange-rate volatility due to an outflow of investments, especially strong in fixed-income. Among the factors included in the concept of "country risk", we highlight: · government regulation or administrative polices may change unexpectedly, including changes that modify the terms and conditions of licenses and concessions and their renewal (or delay their approvals) which could negatively affect the Group’s interests in such countries; · abrupt exchange-rate fluctuations mainly due to situations of high levels of inflation and "twin deficits" (in public finance and external sector) with the resulting exchange-rate overvaluation. This movement could lead to a strong exchange-rate depreciation in the context of a floating exchange rate regime, to a significant devaluation off the back of abandoning fixed exchange rates regimes, or to the introduction of varying degrees of restrictions on capital movement. For example, in Venezuela, the official U.S. dollar to bolivar fuerte exchange rate is established by the Central Bank of Venezuela and the Minister of Finance, with an alternative market for attracting foreign currency through SICAD's fortnightly auctions. Additionally, the acquisition of foreign currencies by Venezuelan or Argentinian companies (in some cases) to pay foreign debt or dividends is subject to the pre-authorization of the relevant authorities. Also, the Argentinean peso is following a sustained accelerated depreciation against the U.S. dollar; · governments may expropriate or nationalize assets, or make adverse tax decisions, or increase their participation in the economy and in companies; · economic-financial downturns, political instability and civil disturbances may negatively affect the Telefónica Group’s operations in such countries; and · maximum profit margins limits may be imposed in order to limit the prices of goods and services through the analysis of cost structures. Thus, in Venezuela, a maximum profit margin has been introduced that will be set annually by the Superintendence for the defense of socio-economic rights. The Group’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if it does not effectively manage its exposure to foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates or financial investment risks. At December 31, 2013, 71% of the Group’s net debt (in nominal terms) had its interest rates fixed over a year, while 23% was denominated in a currency other than the euro. To illustrate the sensitivity of financial expenses to a change in short-term interest rates at December 31, 2013: (i) a 100 basis points increase in interest rates in all currencies in which Telefónica has a financial position at that date would lead to an increase in financial expenses of 118 million euros, (ii) whereas a 100 basis points decrease in interest rates in all currencies except the euro, dollar and the pound sterling (these to zero rates in order to avoid negative rates), would lead to a reduction in financial expenses of 55 million euros. These calculations were made assuming a constant currency and balance position equivalent to the position at that date and bearing in mind the derivative financial instruments arranged. According to the Group’s calculations, the impact on results and specifically changes in the value of a 10% depreciation of Latin American currencies against the U.S. dollar and a 10% depreciation of the rest of the currencies against the euro would result in exchange losses of 42 million euros, primarily due to the weakening of the bolivar fuerte and, to a lesser extent, the Argentinean peso. These calculations had been made assuming a constant currency position with an impact on profit or loss at December 31, 2013, including derivative instruments in place. The Telefónica Group uses a variety of strategies to manage this risk, mainly through the use of financial derivatives, which themselves are also exposed to risk, including counterparty risk. Furthermore, the Group’s risk management strategies may not achieve the desired effect, which could adversely affect the Group’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Existing or worsening conditions in the financial markets may limit the Group’s ability to finance, and consequently, the ability to carry out its business plan. The performance, expansion and improvement of the Telefónica Group’s networks, the development and distribution of the Telefónica Group’s services and products, the development and implementation of the Company’s strategic plan, as well as the development and implementation of new technologies or the renewal of licenses require a substantial amount of financing. 16 Table of Contents The performance of financial markets in terms of liquidity, cost of credit, access and volatility, continues to be overshadowed by persisting uncertainty regarding certain factors such as the pace of economic recovery, the health of the international banking system and the concerns regarding the burgeoning deficits of some European countries. The worsening international financial market credit conditions caused by some of these factors could make it more difficult and more expensive to refinance existing financial debt or arrange new debt if necessary, and more difficult and costly to raise funds from our shareholders, and may negatively affect the Group’s liquidity. At December 31, 2013, gross financial debt scheduled to mature in 2014 amounted to 9,214 million euros (which includes: (i) the net position of derivative financial instruments, certain current payables and (ii) 582 million euros of notes with an option of early repayment and no contractual obligation to be repaid), and gross financial debt scheduled to mature in 2015 amounted to 6,802 million euros. Despite having covered gross debt maturities of 2014 and 2015 by available cash and lines of credit at December 31, 2013, possible difficulties to maintain the current safety margin, or the risk that this could be significantly and unexpectedly exhausted, could force Telefónica to use resources allocated for other investments or commitments for payment of its financial debt, which could have a negative effect on the Group’s businesses, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Although the Group maintains liquidity coverage on 24-month maturities, obtaining financing on the international capital markets could also be restricted, in terms of access and cost, if Telefónica’s credit ratings are revised downwards, either due to lower solvency or operating performance, or as a result of a downgrade in the rating for Spanish sovereign risk by rating agencies. Any of these situations could have a negative impact on our ability to deal with our debt maturities. Moreover, market conditions could make it harder to renew existing undrawn credit lines, 10% of which, at December 31, 2013, initially mature prior to December 31, 2014. Risks related to the Group’s industry The Group operates in a highly regulated industry which requires government concessions for the provision of a large part of its services and the use of spectrum, which is a scarce and costly resource. The telecommunications sector is subject to laws and regulations in different countries, and additionally, many of the services provided require the granting of a license, concession or official approval, which usually requires certain obligations and investments to be made, such as those relating to spectrum availability. Among the main risks of this nature are the spectrum and licenses/concessions, rates, universal service regulation, fiber networks, privacy, functional separation of businesses and network neutrality. Thus, as the Group provides most of its services under licenses, authorizations or concessions, it is vulnerable to administrative bodies decisions, such us economic fines for serious breaches in the provision of services and, eventually, revocation or failure to renew these licenses, authorizations or concessions or the granting of new licenses to competitors for the provisions of services in a specific market. The Telefónica Group pursues its license renewal in the terms referred in their respective contractual conditions, though it cannot guarantee that it will always complete this process successfully or under the most beneficial terms for the Group. In many cases complying with certain obligations is required, including, among others, minimum specified quality standards, service and coverage conditions and capital investment. Failure to comply with these obligations could result in the imposition of fines, revision of the contractual terms, or even the revocation of the license, authorization or concession. Additionally, the Telefónica Group could be affected by regulatory actions carried out by the antitrust authorities. These authorizations could prohibit certain actions, such as new acquisitions or specific practices, create obligations or lead to heavy fines. Any such measures implemented by the competition authorities could results in economic and/or reputational loss for the Group, in addition to a loss of market share and/or in harm to the future growth of certain businesses. Regulation of spectrum and government concessions: The “Digital Single Market” packaged of measures is currently being amended by the European Parliament to include important measures affecting, inter alia, spectrum regulation. Although these measures are not yet final, they could have significant implications as they include new provisions on secondary markets, criteria to apply at auctions, renewals and terms of licensees, etc. 17 Table of Contents In 2015/2016, in Germany, it is expected that frequencies in the 900/1800 MHz band licenses, expiring at the end of 2016, will be renewed. The German regulator has adopted a proposal decision envisaging an auction of spectrum in the 900 MHz, 1800 MHz, 700 MHz and 1500 MHz bands. Furthermore, it is proposed, for operators holding 900 MHz GSM band licenses, the reservation of 2X5 MHz in this band. The aforementioned reservation entails a 99% population coverage obligation. Moreover, European and National regulators are reviewing the implications of the merger of Telefónica Germany and E-Plus, and any potential remedies or conditions. Remedies could affect the spectrum finally available. In Spain, it is expected that the previously auctioned frequencies in the 800 MHz band from the digital dividend, will be allocated on January 1, 2015. For its part, in the UK a tax rate increase for the use of the spectrum in the 900 and 1800 MHz band is under discussion, which outcome is uncertain. Main allocation criteria for the 700 MHz band (Digital Dividend II) will be defined in coming years in Europe. This could involve facing new cash outflow ahead of schedule (the most likely scenario is currently seen as to have this spectrum between 2018 and 2021). In Latin America, spectrum auctions will take place entailing potential outflows to obtain new licenses or to meet the coverage requirements associated with these licenses. Specifically, the following procedures are in progress or expected to take place in 2014: · Brazil: Auction of the 700 MHz band. Allocation of frequencies in the 700 MHz band for fixed-line and mobile telephone and broadband services has been approved. However, the allocation process requires television channels currently occupying this band to be migrated and ANATEL to complete its analysis regarding spectrum interference between mobile and television services; · Chile: Auction of the 700 MHz band; · Ecuador: Negotiations underway to obtain additional frequencies in the 1900 MHz band; · El Salvador: The auction of one block in the 1900 MHz band and another in the AWS band had been postponed, although this issue might be resolved in the coming months; and · Venezuela: Auction in the AWS band (1710-2170 MHz frequencies) and in the 2.5 GHz band, has been suspended. On the other hand, negotiations to renew 850 MHz/1900 MHz licenses in Colombia (where a legal action regarding the reversion of assets at the end of the license terms is in place) and 850/1900 MHz licenses in Panama are under way. In Peru, an application for partial renewal of the concessions for the provision of the fixed-line service for another five years has been made, although assurance has been given that the concession will remain in force until November 2027. Also, a new law has been enacted establishing mobile virtual network operator (MVNOs) and Rural Mobile Infrastructure Operators (RMIOs) in the Peruvian market. In Mexico, it is envisaged, in development of the constitutional reform enacted due to the "Pact for Mexico" political initiative, the creation of a wholesale network publicly owned which will offer wholesale services in the 700 MHz band, the funding and the marketing model of this project have not been determined at present. On the other hand, Telefónica UK was awarded two 10 MHz blocks of spectrum in the 800 MHz band in 2013 to roll out a national 4G network. In Spain, the following license extensions have been granted: in the 900 MHz band, 4 MHz from July 2025 to December 2030 and 1 MHz from February 2015 to December 2030, likewise, in the 1800 MHz band a 20 MHz license has been extended from 2028 to December 2030. Moreover, in 2013, Telefónica also obtained spectrum licenses in Uruguay (2x5 MHz in the 1900 MHz band), Colombia (30 MHz in the AWS band) and Peru (20+20 MHz in the 1700 MHz band). In 2013 Telefónica Brasil requested the amendment of the Terms of its Authorization for the “L” band in order to relocate the blocks of radiofrequencies. Currently, the “L” band is located in the 3G radiofrequencies (1.9/2.1GHz). The notice of the “L” band provided for such relocation and the request ensured a more efficient use of the spectrum for Telefónica Brasil. CapEx associated with the new spectrum in 2013 amounted to 1,224 million euros. In 2012, Telefónica Ireland was awarded spectrum in the 800, 900 and 1800 MHz bands. In Brazil, Telefónica was awarded a block of the 2500 MHz “X” band (20+20 MHz), including the 450 MHz band in certain states. In the spectrum auction, Telefónica Brasil had to compensate the former licensees of this bandwidth, used for multichannel multipoint distribution services. The other operators also awarded spectrum shall, in turn, compensate Telefónica Brasil. Part of these compensation requirements is being legally contested. In Venezuela, the concession agreement between Telefónica Venezolana and the Regulator for an additional 20 MHz in the 1900 MHz band was executed. Telefónica Móviles Chile, S.A. was awarded radiofrequencies for 4G technology in the 2.6 GHz band (2x20 MHz), and in Nicaragua Telefónica was granted 36 MHz in the 700 MHz band. 18 Table of Contents The Company’s failure to obtain sufficient or appropriate spectrum capacity in the jurisdictions discussed above or any others in which it operates or its capacity to assume the related costs, could have an adverse impact its ability to launch and provide new services and on the Company’s ability to maintain the quality of existing services, which may adversely affect the Group’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Regulation of wholesale and retail charges: In terms of roaming, the regulated "Eurotariffs" will be reduced in July 2014, as per the Regulation approved in 2012. The structural roaming solutions which could lead to a price decrease in the intra-European roaming services, will also take effect in July 2014. Furthermore, the packet of “Digital Single Market” measures mentioned above also includes a proposal to eliminate European Union roaming charges in July 2016 as well as international charges. The decreases in wholesale mobile network termination rates in Europe are also noteworthy. In the UK, wholesale mobile network termination rates will be reduced to 0.845 pence/minute from April 1, 2014 (representing a 0.3% reduction compared to the current rates), while the termination rate in Germany was set at 0.0179 euro/minute as from December 31, 2013 (3.24% lower than the previous termination rates). The European Commission has requested that the German regulator withdraw or amend its latest decision on mobile termination rates. There is a risk that the European Commission will initiate infringement proceedings, against Germany, and rates may be further reduced. In Spain, the schedule for reducing mobile network termination rates has reached the target rate (0.0109 euro/minute) in July 2013, representing close to 61% lower than the wholesale prices in force until that date. As from July 2013, the target price reached will remain in force until new target prices are set. The Spanish regulator has yet to make its decision on this matter. Based on a High Court ruling in Ireland, a mobile termination rate of 2.60 euro cents was provisionally imposed (more favorable than the figure initially proposed by the regulator), applicable from July 1, 2013 (representing 29.35% lower the previous termination rates). The Irish regulator is also developing a more adverse cost model based on long-run incremental cost (LRIC) price calculation, which is expected to be announced in July 2014. Also, in Latin America, there are moves to review mobile termination rates leading to these being reduced. Thus, for example, developments in Mexico are among the most relevant, where the declaration of dominant operators in the telecommunications market is expected to lead to asymmetric regulatory measures that must be set. The Company's competitive position may benefit to a greater or lesser extent depending on the scope of these measures. Telefónica México has filed an administrative appeal against the 2011 resolutions of the Federal Telecommunications Commission of México (Cofetel) regarding mobile network termination rates (representing a 61% reduction compared to the previous rates). As of today, no ruling has been made on this appeal. Once these appeals have been concluded, the rates applied may be further reduced retroactively. As of today, Cofetel has not approved the termination rates for 2012, 2013, or 2014. In Brazil, in October 2011, the regulator (ANATEL) approved the fixed-mobile rate adjustment regulation, which provides a progressive reduction of these rates until 2014 through a reduction factor, which will be deducted from the inflation, and implying a reduction of approximately 29% in 2012-2014. However, the Plano Geral de Metas de Competiçao (PGMC) of the end of 2012 extended application of the reduction to 2015 and amended the rates for 2014 and 2015 (75% of the 2013 rate in 2014 and 50% of the 2013 rate in 2015). A draft law has been prepared in Brazil to abolish the basic telephony service monthly fee. “Price protection” practices (reimbursement of price differences of a product to customers if this falls within a relative short period of time) may also have a negative effect, both in economic and image terms. In Chile, a process to set new fixed-line termination charges is ongoing. A Tariff Decree has been passed for mobile networks covering the 2014-2019 five-year period. The new Tariff Decree entered into effect on January 25, 2014, and implies a reduction of 73.4% with respect to the previous rates. In Ecuador the rate-related risks also concern a reduction in rural and urban telephony charges, a reimbursement of top-up balances, as well as rounding to the nearest minute. The implementation of the Enabling Act (Ley Habilitante) in Venezuela also confers full powers to the President to implement price control measures, and it is therefore expected that it will not be possible to raise Movistar retail rates in line with high Venezuela inflation. In relation to mobile termination rates with the national operator of reference, these have been reduced 6% compared to the previous rates. In Peru, the previously applicable rate was reduced by 24.24% in October 2013. In Colombia, a decision was adopted establishing a gradual reduction for termination mobile rates. Regarding the termination model for time, the reduction for 2014 is 19.8% and 24.6% for 2015. For the capacity model the reduction will be 10.9% for 2014 and 12.3% for 2015. In relation with fix networks (for extended local networks) the reduction will be 50% for 2014 and 100% for 2015. 19 Table of Contents Regulation of universal services: The European Commission on its formal obligation to review the Universal Service Directive will launch a public consultation whose objective will be to modify the scope of their obligations and include, at a European level, far higher broadband speeds than are currently provided. Depending on the terms set forth in the new regulation, implementation at a local level could lead to higher costs for both the universal service provider and the operators forced to finance the Universal Service. The regulator in Brazil has modified the universal service targets. This represents a risk on the Company's positive balance resulted from the fulfilment of 2003 universal service targets, whose implementation was less costly than the initially established targets, leaving a positive balance for the Company. The new requirements that cause this positive balance could apply until 2025, and extend beyond on issues such as, for example, rural telephony services and the expansion of the backhaul network. Rural telephony services are another risk in Brazil given the obligations arising from the switched fixed-line telephone services model and the obligations to provide mobile coverage in certain rural areas of the country. Regulation of fiber networks: It is expected that in 2014, Spanish National Competition Authority (Comisión Nacional de los Mercados y la Competencia) will study broadband market regulation in Spain. This could increase Telefónica's regulatory obligations in Spain, especially wholesale market obligations concerning access to fiber networks, and its pricing. Regulations on privacy: In Europe, a new Data Protection Regulation is in the pipeline before the end of the current European legislative term (spring 2014). This could lead to certain critical provisions laid down in the current draft of the Regulation (presently under debate) being worded in such a way that stops or hinders Telefónica from launching some services, that focus on the processing of personal data. Regulation of functional separation: The new principles established in Europe's common regulatory framework, adopted in 2009 and transposed in the national legislation of each Member State in which Telefónica operated during 2011 and 2012 could result in greater regulatory pressure on the local competitive environment. Specifically, this framework supports the possibility of national regulators, in specific cases and under exceptional conditions, forcing operators with significant market power and vertically-integrated operators to separate their wholesale and retail businesses at a functional level. They would therefore be required to offer equal wholesale terms to third-party operators that acquire these products. Regulation of network neutrality: In Europe, application of the current regulatory framework means that it is likely that during 2014, the Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications (BEREC) and national regulators will strengthen their supervision of operators with regard to blocking of access, discrimination of applications or Internet service quality. The European Parliament and the Council are simultaneously debating the draft of the European Digital Market Regulation proposed by the European Commission, in particular concerning network neutrality, network management or differentiation of Internet access service characteristics. All of them are aspects of great importance that have a direct impact on potential business models that can be developed in the future. Presently we have countries where net neutrality has already been ruled, such us Chile and Colombia. But it is a live issue and with varying degree of development in the rest of the countries. In Germany, the Economy Minister published a draft law on June 20, 2013, to regulate neutrality, especially with regard to blocking and discrimination of content and Internet services. The text is pending approval by parliament in 2014 after the new government was sworn in during December 2013. In Brazil, the Civil Rights Framework for Internet Governance is being debated by Congress and is expected to be approved in the first quarter of 2014. It includes policies on the Internet such as network neutrality. Activities regarding net neutrality have been, as of today, focused in supervision of the quality of the services: in October 2011, ANATEL approved the regulations of the Service Quality of Multimedia Communication Service (includes fixed internet) and Personal Mobile Service (including mobile internet). The aforementioned regulations, regulates the measurement made from independent entities on quality delivered and perceived by ISPs to customers. 20 Table of Contents If changes to regulation such as those described above, or otherwise, occur in the various jurisdictions where the Telefónica Group operates, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Customers' perceptions of services offered by the Company may put it at a disadvantage compared to competitors' offerings. Customers' perceptions of the services and products offered are critical to operating in highly-competitive markets. The ability to predict and respond to the changing needs and demands of customers affects the Company's competitive position relative to other technology sector companies, and its ability to extract the value generated during this process of transformation. Failure to do so appropriately could have an adverse impact on the Group’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Company may not be able to adequately foresee and respond to technological changes and sector trends. In a sector characterized by rapid technological change, it is essential to be able to offer the products and services demanded by the market, and consider the impacts of changes in the life cycle of technical assets, finely adjust margins, and select the right investments to make. The Telefónica Group operates in markets that are highly competitive and subject to constant technological development. Therefore, as a consequence of both characteristics, it is subject to the effects of actions by competitors in these markets and to its ability to anticipate and adapt to constant technological changes taking place in the industry. To compete effectively in these markets, the Telefónica Group needs to successfully market its products and services and respond to both commercial actions by competitors and other competitive factors affecting these markets, anticipating and adapting promptly to technological changes, changes in consumer preferences and general economic, political and social conditions. Failure to do so appropriately could have an adverse impact on the Group’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. New products and technologies arise constantly, while the development can render obsolete the products and services the Telefónica Group offers and the technology it uses. This means that Telefónica must invest in the development of new products, technology and services so it can continue to compete effectively with current or future competitors, and which may result in the decrease of the Group’s profits and revenue margins. In this respect, margins from traditional voice and data business are shrinking, while new sources of revenues are deriving from mobile internet and connectivity services that are being launched. Research and development costs amounted to 1,046 million euros and 1,071 million euros in 2013 and 2012, respectively, representing 1.8% and 1.7% of the Group’s consolidated revenue, respectively. One technology that telecommunications operators, including Telefónica (in Spain and Latin America), are focused on is the new FTTx-type network, which offers broadband access using optical fiber with superior services, e.g. internet speed of up to 100MB or HD television services. However, substantial investment is required to deploy these networks, which entails fully or partially substituting copper loop access with optic fiber. An increasing demand for the capabilities offered by these new networks to end users exist, however, the high level of the investments requires a continuous analysis of the return on investment. The explosion of the digital market, and entry of new players in the communications market, such as Mobile Virtual Network Operators (MVNOs), internet companies or device manufacturers, may cause the loss of value of certain assets, and affect its ability to generate income. Therefore, it is necessary to update the business model, encouraging the pursuit of incomes and additional efficiencies to the more traditional. Failure to do so appropriately could have an adverse impact on the Group’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the ability of the Telefónica Group’s IT systems (operational and backup) to respond the Company’s operating requirements is a key factor to be taken into account with respect to the commercial development, customer satisfaction and business efficiency. The Company depends on the suppliers. The existence of critical suppliers in the supply chain, especially in areas such as network infrastructure, information systems or handsets, with a high concentration in a small number of suppliers, poses risks that may affect the operation, and may cause contingencies or damages to the Company’s image in the event that inappropriate practices were produced by a participant in the supply chain. As of December 31, 2013, the Telefónica Group depends on 8 handset suppliers and 12 network infrastructure suppliers, which together accounted for 80% of orders. These suppliers may, among other things, extend delivery times, raise prices and limit supply due to their own shortages and business requirements. 21 Table of Contents If these suppliers fail to deliver products and services to the Telefónica Group on a timely basis, it could jeopardize network deployment and expansion plans, which in some cases could adversely affect the Telefónica Group’s ability to satisfy its license terms and requirements or have an adverse impact on the Group’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Unanticipated network interruptions can lead to quality loss or the interruption of the service. Unanticipated network interruptions as a result of system failures, including those due to network, hardware or software or cyber-attacks, which affect the quality of or cause an interruption in the Telefónica Group’s service, could lead to customer dissatisfaction, reduced revenues and traffic, costly repairs, penalties or other measures imposed by regulatory authorities and could harm the Telefónica Group’s image and reputation. Telefónica attempts to mitigate these risks through a number of measures, including backup systems and protective systems such as firewalls, virus scanners and other physical and logical security. However, these measures are not always effective. Although the Telefónica Group has insurance policies to cover this type of incidents and risks, these policies may not be sufficient to cover all possible monetary losses, although the claims and loss in revenue caused by service interruptions to date have been covered by these policies. The telecommunications industry may be affected by the possible effects of electromagnetic fields, emitted by mobile devices and base stations, may have on human health. In some countries, there is a concern regarding potential effects of electromagnetic fields, emitted by mobile devices and base stations, on human health. This public concern has caused certain governments and administrations to take measures that have hindered the deployment of the infrastructures necessary to ensure quality of service, and affected the deployment criteria of new networks and digital services such as smart meters development. There is a consensus between various expert groups and public health agencies, including the World Health Organization (WHO), who claim that at the moment there have not been established risks for exposure to low frequency signals in mobile communications. The scientific community is still investigating this issue especially on mobile devices. Exposure limits for radio frequency suggested in the guidelines of the Protection of Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection Committee (ICNIRP) have been internationally recognized. The mobile industry has adopted these exposure limits and works to request authorities’ worldwide to adopt these standards. Society's worries about radiofrequency emissions may discourage the use of mobile devices and new digital services, which could cause the public authorities to implement measures restricting where transmitters and cell sites can be located and how they operate, and the use of our mobile telephones, the massive deployment of smart meters and other products using mobile technology. This could lead to the Company being unable to expand or improve its mobile network. The adoption of new measures by governments or administrations or other regulatory interventions in this respect, and any future assessment on the adverse impact of electromagnetic fields on health, may negatively affect the business, financial conditions, results and cash flows of the Telefónica Group. Possible regulatory, business, economic or political changes could lead to asset impairment. The Telefónica Group reviews on an annual basis, or more frequently when the circumstances require it, the value of assets and cash-generating units, to assess whether their carrying values can be supported by the future expected cash flows, including, in some cases synergies allowed for in acquisition cost. Potential changes in the regulatory, business, economic or political environment may result in the need to introduce changes to estimates made and recognize impairment losses in goodwill, intangible assets or fixed assets. Although the recognition of impairments of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and financial assets results in a non-cash charge on the income statement, it could adversely affect the results of the Telefónica Group’s operations. In this respect, the Telefónica Group has experienced impairment losses on certain of its investments, affecting the results of the year in which they were made. Thus, with respect to the investment in Telco, S.p.A., value adjustments were made in fiscal years 2012 and 2013 for 1,277 million euros and 267 million euros, respectively. Also in 2012, the revision of the value of Telefónica operations in Ireland resulted in a negative impact of 527 million euros. 22 Table of Contents Our networks carry and store huge volumes of confidential, personal and corporate data, and our Internet access and hosting services may lead to claims for illegal or illicit use of the Internet. Our networks carry and store huge volumes of confidential, personal and business data, both voice and data traffic. We store increasing quantities and types of customer data in both business and consumer segments. Despite our best efforts to prevent it, Telefónica may be found liable for the loss, transfer, or inappropriate modification of the customer data or general public data stored on its servers or transmitted through its networks which could involve many people and have an impact on the Company's reputation, or lead to legal claims and liabilities that are difficult to measure in advance. Our Internet access and hosting servers could lead to claims for illegal or unlawful use of the Internet. Telefónica, like other telecommunications providers, may be held liable for the loss, transfer or inappropriate modification of the customer data stored on its servers or carried by its networks. In most countries in which Telefónica operates, the provision of its internet access and hosting services (including the operation of websites with shelf-generated content) are regulated under a limited liability regime applicable to the content that it makes available to the public as a technical service provider, particularly content protected by copyright or similar laws. However, regulatory changes have been introduced imposing additional obligations on access providers (such as blocking access to a website) as part of the struggle against some illegal or illicit uses of the internet, notably in Europe. Telefónica and Telefónica Group companies are party to lawsuits, tax claims, antitrust and other legal proceedings. Telefónica and Telefónica Group companies are party to lawsuits, tax claims and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of their businesses, the financial outcome of which is unpredictable. An adverse outcome or settlement in these or other proceedings could result in significant costs and may have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and cash flows. In particular, regarding tax and antitrust claims, the Telefónica Group has open judicial procedures in Peru concerning the clearance of previous years' income tax, for which contentious-administrative appeal is currently in process; as well as in Brazil CADE’s (Conselho Administrativo de Defensa Ecônomica) as regards the acquisition of a 50% stake in VIVO and tax open procedures, primarily relating to the CIMS (tax on telecommunication services) (further details on these matters are provided in the Consolidated Financial Statements). 23 Table of Contents 