Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements contained in this Report, including our ability to introduce new homes and new floor plans, our ability to pass various costs on to our customers, the availability and cost of raw materials, expanding shipments and sales, our status as a principal supplier to certain of our customers, our relationship with our employees, the outcome of legal proceedings or claims, our strategy to diversify, our ability to generate U.S. pretax income, compliance with the covenants in our credit facilities and the impact of our inability to do so, changes to our capital structure, our expected capital expenditures, the impact of contingent repurchase obligations and other contingent liabilities or obligations on the results of our operations, the adequacy of our cash flow from operations to fund capital expenditures, could be construed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of U.S. federal securities laws. In addition, Champion or persons acting on our behalf may from time to time publish or communicate other items that could also be construed to be forward-looking statements. Statements of this sort are, or will be, based on the Company’s then current estimates, assumptions and projections and are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those specifically listed below that could cause actual results to differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements. The Company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements or risk factors to reflect future events or circumstances. The following risk factors could affect the Company’s operating results. Significant debt — Our significant debt could limit our ability to obtain additional financing, require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations for debt service and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. If we are unable to pay our debt obligations when due, we could be in default under our debt agreements and our lenders could accelerate our debt or take other actions which could restrict our operations. As discussed in Note 5 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Report, we have a significant amount of debt outstanding, which consists primarily of term loans due in 2012, a note payable due at the end of 2008, and Convertible Senior Notes (the “Convertible Notes) due in 2037. Holders of the Convertible Notes may require us to repurchase the Notes if we are involved in certain types of corporate transactions or other events constituting a fundamental change and have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Notes on November 1 of 2012, 2017, 2022, 2027 and 2032. We have the right to redeem the Convertible Notes, in whole or in part, for cash at any time after October 31, 2012. We may incur additional debt to finance acquisitions or for other purposes. This indebtedness could, among other things: • limit our ability to obtain future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, surety bonds, or other requirements; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and reduce our ability to use our cash flows for other purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we compete; • place us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors with less indebtedness; and • make us more vulnerable in the event of a further downturn in our business or in general economic conditions. Our business may not generate cash flows from operations in amounts sufficient to pay our debt or to fund other liquidity needs. The factors that affect our ability to generate cash can also affect our ability to raise additional funds through the sale of equity securities, the refinancing of debt or the sale of assets. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to refinance our debt obligations, we could be in default under our debt agreements and our lenders could accelerate our debt or take other actions that could restrict our operations. 9 Table of Contents Fluctuations in operating results — The cyclical and seasonal nature of the North American housing market has caused our sales and operating results to fluctuate. These fluctuations may continue in the future, which could result in operating losses during downturns. The North American housing market is highly cyclical and is influenced by many national and regional economic and demographic factors, including: • terms and availability of financing for homebuyers and retailers; • consumer confidence; • interest rates; • population and employment trends; • income levels; • housing demand; and • general economic conditions, including inflation, and recessions. In addition, the factory-built housing industry is affected by seasonality. Sales during the period from March to November are traditionally higher than in other months. As a result of the foregoing factors, our sales and operating results fluctuate, and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future. Moreover, we may experience operating losses during cyclical and seasonal downturns in the housing market. Consumer financing availability — Tight credit standards and loan terms, curtailed lending activity, and increased interest rates among consumer lenders could reduce our sales. If consumer financing were to become further curtailed, our sales could decline and our operating results and cash flows could suffer. The consumers who buy our homes have historically secured consumer financing from third party lenders. The availability, terms and costs of consumer financing depend on the lending practices of financial institutions, governmental regulations and economic and other conditions, all of which are beyond our control. A consumer seeking to finance the purchase of a manufactured home without land will generally pay a higher interest rate and have a shorter loan term than a consumer seeking to finance the purchase of land and the home. Manufactured home consumer financing is at times more difficult to obtain than financing for site-built and modular homes. Between 1999 and 2003, consumer lenders tightened the credit underwriting standards and loan terms and increased interest rates for loans to purchase manufactured homes, which reduced lending volumes and caused our sales to decline. The poor performance of portfolios of manufactured housing consumer loans in past years has made it more difficult for industry consumer finance companies to obtain long-term capital. As a result, consumer finance companies have curtailed their industry lending and many have exited the manufactured housing market. Additionally, the industry has seen certain traditional real estate mortgage lenders tighten terms or discontinue financing for manufactured housing. If consumer financing for manufactured homes were to be further curtailed, we would likely experience sales declines and our operating results and cash flows would suffer. Floor plan financing availability — A reduction in floor plan credit availability or tighter loan terms to our independent retailers could cause our manufacturing sales to decline. As a result, our operating results and cash flows could suffer. Independent retailers of our manufactured homes generally finance their inventory purchases with floor plan financing provided by lending institutions. Reduced availability of floor plan lending or tighter floor plan terms may affect our independent retailers’ inventory levels of new homes, the number of retail sales centers and related wholesale demand. As a result, we could experience manufacturing sales declines or a higher level of retailer defaults and our operating results and cash flows could suffer. 10 Table of Contents Contingent liabilities — We have, and will continue to have, significant contingent repurchase obligations and other contingent obligations, some of which could become actual obligations that we must satisfy. We may incur losses under these contingent repurchase obligations or be required to fund these or other contingent obligations that would reduce our cash flows. In connection with a floor plan arrangement for our manufacturing shipments to independent retailers, the financial institution that provides the retailer financing customarily requires us to enter into a separate repurchase agreement with the financial institution. Under this separate agreement, generally for a period up to 18 months from the date of our sale to the retailer, upon default by the retailer and repossession of the home by the financial institution, we are generally obligated to purchase from the lender the related floor plan loan or the home at a price equal to the unpaid principal amount of the loan, plus certain administrative and handling expenses, reduced by the cost of any damage to the home and any missing parts or accessories. Our estimated aggregate contingent repurchase obligation at December 29, 2007 was significant and included significant contingent repurchase obligations relating to our largest independent retail customers. For additional discussion see “Contingent Repurchase Obligations — Manufacturing Segment” in Item 7 and Note 13 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Report. We may be required to honor some or all of our contingent repurchase obligations in the future, which would result in operating losses and reduced cash flows. At December 29, 2007, we also had contingent obligations related to surety bonds and letters of credit. For additional detail and discussion, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7 of this Report. If we were required to fund a material amount of these contingent obligations, we would have reduced cash flows and could incur losses. Dependence upon independent retailers — If we are unable to establish or maintain relationships with independent retailers who sell our homes, our sales could decline and our operating results and cash flows could suffer. During 2007, approximately 82% of our manufacturing shipments of homes were made to independent retail locations throughout the United States and western Canada. As is common in the industry, independent retailers may sell manufactured homes produced by competing manufacturers. We may not be able to establish relationships with new independent retailers or maintain good relationships with independent retailers that sell our homes. Even if we do establish and maintain relationships with independent retailers, these retailers are not obligated to sell our manufactured homes exclusively, and may choose to sell our competitors’ homes instead. The independent retailers with whom we have relationships can cancel these relationships on short notice. In addition, these retailers may not remain financially solvent, as they are subject to the same industry, economic, demographic and seasonal trends that we face. If we do not establish and maintain relationships with solvent independent retailers in the markets we serve, sales in those markets could decline and our operating results and cash flows could suffer. Cost and availability of raw materials — Prices of certain materials can fluctuate significantly and availability of certain materials may be limited at times. Prices of certain materials such as lumber, insulation, steel, and drywall can fluctuate significantly due to changes in demand and supply. Additionally, availability of certain materials such as drywall and insulation may be limited at times resulting in higher prices and/or the need to find alternative suppliers. We generally have been able to maintain adequate supplies of materials and to pass higher material costs on to our customers in the form of surcharges and base price increases. However, it is not certain that future price increases can be passed on to our customers without affecting demand or that limited availability of materials will not impact our production capabilities. Effect on liquidity — Industry conditions and our operating results have limited our sources of capital in the past. If we are unable to locate suitable sources of capital when needed we may be unable to maintain or expand our business. We depend on our cash balances, our cash flows from operations and our senior secured credit agreement, as amended, (the “Credit Agreement”) to finance our operating requirements, capital expenditures and other needs. The downturn in the manufactured housing industry, combined with our operating results and other changes, has limited our sources of financing in the past. If our cash balances, cash flows from operations, and availability under 11 Table of Contents our revolving credit facility are insufficient to finance our operations and alternative capital is not available, we may not be able to expand our business and make acquisitions, or we may need to curtail or limit our existing operations. We have a significant amount of surety bonds and letters of credit representing collateral for our casualty insurance programs and for general operating purposes which are backed by our Credit Agreement . For additional detail and information concerning the amounts of our surety bonds and letters of credit, see Note 13 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Report. The inability to retain our current letter of credit and surety bond providers, to obtain alternative bonding or letter of credit sources or to retain our current Credit Agreement to support these programs could require us to post cash collateral, reduce the amount of cash available for our operations or cause us to curtail or limit existing operations. Competition — The factory-built housing industry is very competitive. If we are unable to effectively compete, our growth could be limited, our sales could decline and our operating results and cash flows could suffer. The factory-built housing industry is highly competitive at both the manufacturing and retail levels, with competition based, among other things, on price, product features, reputation for service and quality, merchandising, terms of retailer promotional programs and the terms of consumer financing. Numerous companies produce factory-built homes in our markets. Some of our manufacturing competitors have captive retail distribution systems and consumer finance operations. In addition, there are independent factory-built housing retail locations in most areas where independent retailers sell our homes and in California where we have retail operations. Because barriers to entry to the industry at both the manufacturing and retail levels are low, we believe that it is relatively easy for new competitors to enter our markets. In addition, our products compete with other forms of low to moderate-cost housing, including site-built homes, panelized homes, apartments, townhouses and condominiums. If we are unable to effectively compete in this environment, our manufacturing shipments and retail sales could be reduced. As a result, our sales could decline and our operating results and cash flows could suffer. Zoning — If the factory-built housing industry is not able to secure favorable local zoning ordinances, our sales could decline and our operating results and cash flows could suffer. Limitations on the number of sites available for placement of manufactured homes or on the operation of manufactured housing communities could reduce the demand for manufactured homes and our sales. Manufactured housing communities and individual home placements are subject to local zoning ordinances and other local regulations relating to utility service and construction of roadways. In the past, some property owners have resisted the adoption of zoning ordinances permitting the use of manufactured homes in residential areas, which we believe has restricted the growth of the industry. Manufactured homes may not receive widespread acceptance and localities may not adopt zoning ordinances permitting the development of manufactured home communities. If the manufactured housing industry is unable to secure favorable local zoning ordinances, our sales could decline and our operating results and cash flows could suffer. Dependence upon executive officers and other key personnel — The loss of any of our executive officers or other key personnel could reduce our ability to manage our businesses and achieve our business plan, which could cause our sales to decline and our operating results and cash flows to suffer. We depend on the continued services and performance of our executive officers and other key personnel. If we lose the service of any of our executive officers or other key personnel, it could reduce our ability to manage our businesses and achieve our business plan, which could cause our sales to decline and our operating results and cash flows to suffer. Restrictive covenants — The terms of our debt place operating restrictions on us and our subsidiaries and contain various financial performance and other covenants with which we must remain in compliance. If we do not remain in compliance with these covenants, certain of our debt facilities could be terminated and the amounts outstanding thereunder could become immediately due and payable. The documents governing the terms of our Credit Agreement contain financial and non-financial covenants that place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. The terms of this agreement include covenants that allow for a 12 Table of Contents maximum leverage limit, require minimum levels of interest coverage and fixed charge coverage that, to varying degrees, restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: • make capital investments; • engage in new lines of business; • incur indebtedness, contingent liabilities, guarantees, and liens; • pay dividends or issue common stock; • redeem or refinance existing indebtedness; • redeem or repurchase common stock and redeem, repay or repurchase subordinated debt; • make investments in subsidiaries that are not subsidiary guarantors; • enter into joint ventures; • sell certain assets or enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • acquire, consolidate with, or merge with or into other companies; and • enter into transactions with affiliates. If we fail to comply with any of these covenants, the lenders could cause our debt to become due and payable prior to maturity, or result in refinancing the related indebtedness under unfavorable terms. If our debt were accelerated, our assets might not be sufficient to repay our debt in full. As of December 29, 2007, we were in compliance with all Credit Agreement covenants. In addition, our Credit Agreement contains provisions that require us, under certain circumstances, to use a significant portion of our Excess Cash Flow (as defined) to repay outstanding balances under the facility if our Excess Cash Flow is not reinvested in the year it is generated, as required under the agreement. As a result, our ability to execute our growth and diversification strategies could be limited. For additional detail and discussion concerning these financial covenants see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7 of this Report. Our potential inability to integrate acquired operations could have a negative effect on our expenses and results of operations. In the past, we have grown through strategic acquisitions and we may engage in strategic acquisitions in the future to strengthen and expand our operating capabilities and further diversify our revenue base. The full benefits of these acquisitions, however, require integration of manufacturing, administrative, financial, sales, and marketing approaches and personnel. If we are unable to successfully integrate these acquisitions, we may not realize the benefits of the acquisitions, and our financial results may be negatively affected. Completed acquisitions may also lead to significant unexpected liabilities above and beyond the level of available indemnities contained in the purchase agreements. Potential Dilution — Conversions by holders of our convertible securities and potential capital, debt reduction, or acquisition transactions effected with issuances of our common stock could result in dilution and impair the price of our common stock. We currently have $180 million of 2.75% Convertible Notes outstanding. The Convertible Notes are convertible into approximately 8.6 million shares or more of our common stock, depending on the market price of our common stock near the conversion date. To the extent that holders convert their Convertible Notes into shares of the Company’s common stock, other common shareholders would experience dilution in their percentage ownership interests. 13 Table of Contents To the extent we decide to reduce debt obligations or finance investments through the issuance of common stock or instruments convertible into common stock, our then existing common shareholders could experience dilution in their percentage ownership interests. We may seek additional sources of capital and financing in the future or issue securities in connection with retiring our outstanding indebtedness or making acquisitions, the terms of which could result in additional dilution. Potential impairment charges — We have a significant amount of goodwill, amortizable intangible assets, deferred tax assets and property, plant and equipment which are subject to periodic review and testing for impairment. A significant portion of our total assets at December 29, 2007 were comprised of goodwill, amortizable intangible assets, deferred tax assets and property, plant and equipment. Under generally accepted accounting principles each of these assets is subject to periodic review and testing to determine whether the asset is recoverable or realizable. These tests require projections of future cash flows and estimates of fair value of the assets. Unfavorable trends in the industries in which we operate or in our operations can affect these projections and estimates. Significant impairment charges, although not affecting cash flow, could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position. Operations in the UK — We have a significant investment in the UK. We depend upon a few individually significant customers in our international segment. If we are unable to maintain relationships with our significant customers, our sales could decline and our operating results and cash flows could suffer. A reduction in government funding to our major customers, our inability to effectively compete in the UK or unfavorable changes in exchange rates could adversely affect the value of our investment in the UK and could significantly impact our UK revenues and earnings. During 2007, approximately 82% of our international segment sales were, either directly or indirectly, to two large public sector (government) customers. If we are unable to maintain relationships with these customers or establish suitable replacement customer relationships, our operating results and cash flows could suffer. Caledonian’s two major customers rely on government funding for construction projects. Reduction in government funding to either of these two customers or unfavorable changes in the markets for hotels and residential structures could significantly impact Caledonian’s revenues and earnings. The commercial construction market in the UK is very competitive. If we are unable to effectively compete in this environment our revenues and earnings could suffer. Additionally, unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates could adversely affect the value of our investment in this business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 