D. Risk Factors The Telefónica Group's business is conditioned by a series of intrinsic risk factors that affect exclusively the Group, as well as a series of external factors that are common to businesses of the same sector. The main risks and uncertainties facing the Company which could affect its business, financial position, reputation, corporate image and brand and its results of operations, must be considered jointly with the information in the Consolidated Financial Statements, and are as follows: Group-related risks Worsening of the economic and political environment could negatively affect Telefónica’s business. Telefónica’s international presence enables the diversification of its activities across countries and regions, but it is affected by various legislations, as well as the political and economic environments of the countries in which it operates. Any adverse developments or even uncertainties in this regard, including exchange-rate or sovereign-risk fluctuations, may adversely affect the business, financial position, cash flows and/or the performance of some or all of the Group’s financial indicators. With respect to the economic environment, the Telefónica Group’s business is impacted by overall economic conditions in each of the countries in which it operates. Economic conditions may adversely affect the level of demand of existing and prospective customers, as they may no longer deem critical the services offered by the Group. Factors such as high debt levels, ongoing restructuring of the banking sector, the implementation of pending structural reforms and continued fiscal austerity measures could hinder more dynamic growth in Europe and, in turn, the consumption and volume of demand for the Group's services, which could materially adversely affect the Group’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The soft economic recovery in Europe together with low inflation rates, and the risk of deflation, has led and may still lead to monetary and fiscal easing from key players, with a view to creating a relatively benign scenario for Europe. In this region, the Telefónica Group generated 23.9% of its total revenues in Spain, 14.0% in the United Kingdom and 11.0% in Germany in 2014. In addition, the Group’s business may be affected by other possible effects from the economic crisis, including possible insolvency of key customers and suppliers. In Latin America, the most important challenge is the exchange-rate risk in Venezuela and Argentina, given the negative impact that a depreciation in their currencies could have on cash flows from both countries. International financial conditions may be unfavorable and may lead to potential periods of volatility linked to the evolution of the developed financial markets (especially long-term interest rates in the United States affected by the U.S. Federal Reserve’s intervention that are not discounted in the market), an economic slowdown in Asia (a key region for Latin America) and slow progress with structural reforms projects in the majority of these countries limiting potential for higher growth rates. Among the most significant macroeconomic risk factors in the region are the high inflation rates, negative economic growth and high internal and external funding needs in Venezuela. These funding needs are significant and are affected by the recent fall in oil prices, which is the main and almost sole source of foreign currency in the country. These factors are affecting Venezuela’s competitiveness and may result in a currency 14 Table of Contents devaluation. Other risks in the region are Argentina’s high level of inflation coupled with a phase of economic slowdown and weak public finances. Moreover, the recent decline in the prices of oil and other commodities could have a negative impact on the external accounts of countries such as Brazil, Chile, Peru and Colombia. In relation to the political environment, the Group’s investments and operations in Latin America could be affected by a series of risks related to economic, political and social factors in these countries, collectively denominated “country risk”. For the year ended December 31, 2014, Telefónica Hispanoamérica and Telefónica Brazil represented 26.1% and 22.3% of the Telefónica Group’s revenues, respectively. Moreover, approximately 9.6% of the Group’s revenues in the telephony business are generated in countries that do not have investment grade status (in order of importance, Argentina, Venezuela, Ecuador, Nicaragua, Guatemala, El Salvador and Costa Rica), and other countries are only one notch away from losing this threshold. It is also significant that, despite clear improvements in Brazil, the uncertainty surrounding the political situation, fiscal policy stimuli and a relatively high inflation rate could result in a rating downgrade that, depending on the extent of such downgrade, could result in strong exchange-rate volatility due to an outflow of investments, especially in relation to fixed-income. “Country risk” factors include the following: · government regulation or administrative policies may change unexpectedly, including changes that modify the terms and conditions of licenses and concessions and their renewal (or delay their approvals), which could negatively affect the Group’s business in such countries; · abrupt exchange-rate fluctuations may occur mainly due to high levels of inflation and both fiscal and external deficits with the resulting exchange-rate overvaluation. This movement could lead to strong exchange-rate depreciation in the context of a floating exchange rate regime, a significant devaluation off the back of abandoning fixed exchange rates regimes or the introduction of varying degrees of restrictions on capital movement. For example, in Venezuela, the official U.S. dollar to bolívar fuerte exchange rate is established by the Central Bank of Venezuela and the Minister of Finance, with an alternative market for attracting foreign currency through the Complementary System for Administration of Foreign Currency (Sistema Complementario de Administración de Divisas or “SICAD”) regular and selective auctions. In February 2015, a new Exchange Rate Agreement was established, including the regulations for the Foreign Exchange Marginal System (SIMADI), and the Central Bank of Venezuela published on February 18, 2015 a weighted average exchange rate equal to 172.1 bolívares to the U.S. dollar for the markets referred to in chapters II and IV of such Exchange Rate Agreement. Additionally, the acquisition or use of foreign currencies by Venezuelan or Argentinean companies (in some cases) to pay foreign debt or dividends is subject to the pre-authorization of the relevant authorities. Also, the Argentinean peso, despite its recent stability, continues to be under the threat of a sustained accelerated depreciation against the U.S. dollar; · governments may expropriate or nationalize assets, make adverse tax decisions or increase their participation in the economy and in companies; · economic-financial downturns, political instability and civil disturbances may negatively affect the Telefónica Group’s operations in such countries; and · maximum limits on profit margins may be imposed in order to limit the prices of goods and services through the analysis of cost structures. For example, in Venezuela, a maximum profit margin has been introduced that will be set annually by the Superintendence for Defense of Socioeconomic Rights. Any of the foregoing may adversely affect the business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Group. The Group's financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if it does not effectively manage its exposure to foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates or financial investment risks. At December 31, 2014, 70% of the Group’s net debt (in nominal terms) was pegged to fixed interest rates for a period greater than one year, while 27% was denominated in a currency other than the euro. To illustrate the sensitivity of financial expenses to a change in short-term interest rates at December 31, 2014: (i) a 100 basis points increase in interest rates in all currencies in which Telefónica has a financial position at that date would lead 15 Table of Contents to an increase in financial expenses of 111 million euros, (ii) whereas a 100 basis points decrease in interest rates in all currencies except the euro, the U.S. dollar and the pound sterling (these to zero rates in order to avoid negative rates), would lead to a reduction in financial expenses of 68 million euros. These calculations were made using the same balance position in each currency and same balance position equivalent at such date and bearing in mind the derivative financial instruments arranged. According to the Group's calculations, the impact on results and specifically changes in the value of a 10% depreciation of Latin American currencies against the U.S. dollar and a 10% depreciation of the rest of the currencies against the euro would result in exchange losses of 76 million euros, primarily due to the weakening of the Venezuelan bolivar and the Argentinean peso. These calculations were made using the same balance position in each currency with an impact on profit or loss at such date, including derivative instruments in place. For the year ended December 31, 2014, 22.8% of the Telefónica Group's operating income before depreciation and amortization (OIBDA) was concentrated in Telefónica Brazil, 26.2% in Telefónica Hispanoamérica and 11.2% in the Telefónica United Kingdom. The Telefónica Group uses a variety of strategies to manage these risks, mainly through the use of financial derivatives, which themselves also expose us to risk, including counterparty risk. Furthermore, the Group’s risk management strategies may not achieve the desired effect, which could adversely affect the Group’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Existing or worsening conditions in the financial markets may limit the Group's ability to finance, and consequently, the ability to carry out its business plan. The performance, expansion and improvement of the Telefónica Group's networks, the development and distribution of the Telefónica Group's services and products, the development and implementation of the Company's strategic plan, the development and implementation of new technologies or the renewal of licenses as well as expansion of our business in countries where we operate may require a substantial amount of financing. The performance of financial markets in terms of liquidity, cost of credit, access and volatility, continues to be overshadowed by persisting uncertainty regarding certain factors such as the pace of economic recovery, the health of the international banking system and concerns regarding the burgeoning deficits of some European countries. The worsening international financial market credit conditions caused by some of these factors could make it more difficult and more expensive to refinance existing financial debt or arrange new debt if necessary, and more difficult to raise funds from the Group's shareholders, and may negatively affect the Group's liquidity. At December 31, 2014, gross financial debt scheduled to mature in 2015 amounted to 8,491 million euros (which includes the net position of derivative financial instruments and certain current payables), and gross financial debt scheduled to mature in 2016 amounted to 8,407 million euros. Despite having covered gross debt maturities of 2015, 2016 and part of 2017 by available cash and lines of credit at December 31, 2014, possible difficulties in maintaining the current safety margin, or the risk that this could be significantly and unexpectedly exhausted, could force Telefónica to use resources allocated for other investments or commitments for payment of its financial debt, which could have a negative effect on the Group's businesses, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In 2013 the Telefónica Group issued bonds mainly (i) in euro totaling 3,250 million euros with an average coupon of 3.690%; (ii) in dollars totaling 2,000 million U.S. dollars with an average coupon of 3.709%; and (iii) in Swiss Francs totaling 225 million Swiss francs with an annual coupon of 2.595%. The Telefónica Group also issued undated deeply subordinated securities in euros totaling 1,750 million euros with an average coupon of 6.902%; and in sterling pounds totaling 600 million sterling pounds with a coupon of 6.750%. In 2014 the Telefónica Group issued bonds mainly in the European market with a maturity of eight years totaling 1,250 million euros with an annual coupon of 2.242%, and bonds with a fifteen-year maturity totaling 800 million euros with an annual coupon of 2.932%. In addition, the Telefónica Group issued undated deeply subordinated securities in 2014 totaling 2,600 million euros with an average coupon of 5.075%. Despite having its gross debt maturities profile covered for more than two years, obtaining financing on the international capital markets could also be restricted, in terms of access and cost, if Telefónica's credit ratings are revised downwards, either due to lower solvency or operating performance, or as a result of a downgrade in the rating for Spanish sovereign risk by rating agencies. Any of these situations could have a negative impact on the Group's ability to meet its debt maturities. 16 Table of Contents Moreover, market conditions could make it harder to renew existing undrawn credit lines, 8% of which, at December 31, 2014, were scheduled to mature prior to December 31, 2015. In addition, the impact of the sovereign debt crisis and the rating downgrades in certain Eurozone countries should be taken into account. Any deterioration in the sovereign debt markets, doubts about developments in European projects (such as implementation of the banking union project, the results of the elections in Europe, including Spain among others, or progress towards fiscal integration), as well as further credit restrictions by the banking sector could have an adverse effect on the Telefónica Group's ability to access funding and/or liquidity, which could have a significant adverse effect on the Group's businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Relating to the Group’s Industry The Group operates in a highly regulated industry which requires government concessions for the provision of a large part of its services and the use of spectrum, which is a scarce and costly resource. The telecommunications sector is subject to laws and regulations in different countries, and additionally, many of the services the Group provides require the granting of a license, concession or official approval, which usually requires certain obligations and investments to be made, such as those relating to spectrum availability. Among the main risks of this nature are those related to spectrum regulation and licenses/concessions, rates, universal service regulation, regulated wholesale services over fiber networks, privacy, functional separation of businesses and network neutrality. Thus, as the Group provides most of its services under licenses, authorizations or concessions, it is vulnerable to administrative bodies’ decisions, such as economic fines for serious breaches in the provision of services and, potentially, revocation or failure to renew these licenses, authorizations or concessions, or the granting of new licenses to competitors for the provisions of services in a specific market. In this regards, the Telefónica Group pursues its license renewals in the terms referred in their respective contractual conditions, though it cannot guarantee that it will always complete this process successfully or under the most beneficial terms for the Group. In many cases complying with certain obligations is required, including, among others, minimum specified quality, service and coverage standards and capital investment. Failure to comply with these obligations could result in the imposition of fines, revision of the contractual terms, or even the revocation of the license, authorization or concession. Additionally, the Telefónica Group could be affected by regulatory actions carried out by the antitrust authorities. These authorities could prohibit certain actions, such as new acquisitions or specific practices, create obligations or lead to heavy fines. Any such measures implemented by the competition authorities could result in economic and/or reputational loss for the Group, in addition to a loss of market share and/or harm to the future growth of certain businesses. Regulation of spectrum and government concessions In Europe, the amendments by the EU Parliament to the Commission’s proposal on the “Digital Single Market” (the “DSM”) package of measures are currently being discussed by the European Council. The “DSM” measures include important measures affecting, inter alia, spectrum regulation. Although these measures are not yet final, they could have significant implications as they include new provisions on secondary markets, criteria to apply at auctions, renewals and terms of licenses, etc. In addition, the main allocation criteria for the 700 MHz band of “Digital Dividend II” (the second spectrum allocation process from television operators to electronic communications services) will be defined in the coming years. This could require new cash outflows ahead of the Group’s previously anticipated schedule (it is expected that the spectrum will be available between 2018 and 2021). Nevertheless, Germany will be the first country in Europe to award spectrum in the 700 MHz band. On January 29, 2015, the German regulator (“BNetzA”) published respective final decisions on the spectrum allocation proceedings and on the auction conditions of the 700 MHz and 1500 MHz bands. The auction will also include the spectrum corresponding to GSM licenses – the entire 900 MHz band and most of the 1800 MHz band (which will expire at the end of 2016) –. Interested bidders may submit applications by March 6, 2015. The auction (Simultaneous Multi-Round Auction) will take place in the second quarter of 2015. 17 Table of Contents On July 4, 2014, BNetzA adopted a decision concerning the frequency aspects of the Telefónica Deutschland Holding AG merger with E-Plus Mobilfunk GmbH & Co KG (“E-Plus”). BNetzA has instructed Telefónica Deutschland (the surviving entity after the merger takes place) to anticipate the termination of its rights of use in the 900 / 1800 MHz bands by December 31, 2015, (instead of December 31, 2016), if Telefónica Deutschland does not reacquire these frequencies at the above-mentioned auction proceeding. Both Telefónica Deutschland and E-Plus have legally challenged this BNetzA decision on August 4, 2014. The German regulator also announced that, once the auction of spectrum mentioned above is over, it will perform a frequency distribution analysis, and determine whether any additional action is needed, particularly in the area of the 2GHz spectrum band granted to Telefonica Deutschland. In addition, and within the framework of the conditions imposed by the European Commission in connection with the merger, the surviving entity of the merger is obliged to offer up to 2x10 MHz in the 2600 MHz as well as up to 2x10 MHz in the 2100 MHz spectrum band to one potential new mobile network operator. This offer is open to any potential new mobile network operator that had declared a respective interest by December 31, 2014 and to the operator with whom Telefónica Deutschland has signed the network access agreement (Drillisch Group). On December 26, 2014, the Spanish Government adopted a law in which it delayed, to a maximum period ended on April 1, 2015, the effective delivery of the frequencies in the 800 MHz spectrum which are part of the "Digital Dividend" (the spectrum allocation process from television operators to electronic communications services), and which were expected to be delivered on January 1, 2015 to the already awarded mobile operators. The license term has been extended accordingly to April 24, 2031. In the United Kingdom a significant increase in the annual license fees charged for the use of the spectrum in 900 MHz and 1800 MHz bands has been proposed by the regulator (the Office of Communications (“Ofcom”)). The outcome of it remains uncertain. Separately, the United Kingdom Government announced recently an agreement with the United Kingdom mobile operators, including Telefonica United Kingdom, under which the mobile operators would accept a 90% geographic coverage obligation for voice and text services. Given the agreement, Ofcom has agreed to consider the impact of the geographic coverage obligation on its valuation of annual fees for 900 MHz and 1800 MHz spectrum. This is expected to delay Ofcom’s decision. In addition, on November 7, 2014, Ofcom released a public consultation on the award of 2.3 GHz and 3.4 GHz bands that is expected to take place in late 2015 or early 2016. In Latin America, spectrum auctions are expected to take place implying potential cash outflows to obtain additional spectrum or to meet the coverage requirements associated with these licenses. Specifically, the procedures expected to take place in 2015 are: · Peru: The government announced plans to auction the 700 MHz spectrum band in the first half of 2015 (three blocks of 2x15 MHz have been defined). · Costa Rica: Costa Rica’s government has communicated its intention to auction spectrum in the 1800 MHz and AWS bands during 2015. · Mexico: The Federal Institute of Telecommunications (Instituto Federal de Telecomunicaciones) (“IFT”) published its Annual Program for Frequency Use and Development 2015. The program specifies IFT’s intention to award Advanced Wireless Services “AWS” concessions during the course of 2015. Further to the above, certain administrations may not have announced their intention to release new spectrum and may do so during the year. The above does not include processes announced via general statements by administrations, which involve bands not key to Telefónica’s needs. Telefónica may also seek to acquire spectrum on the secondary market should opportunities arise. In Argentina, on December 1, 2014, the Secretary of Communication through Resolution 85/2014 officially awarded Telefónica Argentina the block 1710-1720/2110-2120 for a period of 15 years, and the 700 MHz block (703-713/758-768 MHz) is expected to be officially transferred to Telefónica Argentina during 2015. In the state of São Paulo, Telefónica Brasil provides local and national long-distance Commuted Fixed Telephony Service (CFTS) under the public regime, through a concession agreement, which will be in force until 2025. In this regard, in June 27, 2014, as established in the concession agreement, the National Telecommunications Agency (Agência Nacional de Telecomunicações) (“ANATEL”) issued a public consultation for the revision of the concession agreement. Such public 18 Table of Contents consultation revising the concession agreement ended on December 26, 2014 and allowed contributions on certain topics such as service universalization, rates and fees and quality of services, among others. Definitive conditions will be published in 2015. Additionally, in Colombia the Information and Communication Technologies (“ITC”) Ministry issued a Resolution on March 27, 2014 to renew 850 MHz/1900 MHz licenses for 10 additional years. The reversion of assets and the liquidation of the concession contract will be discussed until May 2015, taking into consideration the terms of the contract, and the Constitutional Court’s review of Law 422 of 1998, which established the reversion of only the radio-electric frequencies. In Peru, an application for partial renewal of the concessions for the provision of the fixed-line service for another five years has been issued, although assurance has been given by the “Ministry of Transport and Communications” (Ministerio de Transportes y Comunicaciones) in previous renewals, that the concession will remain in force until November 2027. Also, a new law has been enacted establishing mobile virtual network operator (MVNOs) and Rural Mobile Infrastructure Operators (RMIOs) in the Peruvian market. In Mexico, in light of the constitutional reform resulting from the “Pact for Mexico” political initiative, it is expected that a publicly-owned wholesale network, which will offer wholesale services in the 700 MHz band, will be created. As of today, the funding and the marketing model of this project have not yet been determined. Telefónica Móviles Chile, S.A. was awarded spectrum on the 700 MHz (2x10 MHz) band in March 2014. A third party provider opposed this allocation of spectrum on the basis that it would exceed the limit spectrum of 60 MHz established by a judgment of the Supreme Court of January 27, 2009. This cap was established for the AWS auction held in 2009, but not for subsequent auctions (2600 MHz and 700 MHz). In a judgment on December 31, 2014, the court of appeals rejected the third party claim. Consequently, the regulator is in a position to adopt a Decree awarding the concession to Telefónica. The consolidated investment in spectrum acquisitions and renewals in 2014 amounted to 1,294.2 million euros. The Company’s failure to obtain sufficient or appropriate spectrum capacity in the jurisdictions discussed above or any others in which it operates or its inability to assume the related costs, could have an adverse impact on its ability to launch and provide new services and on the Company’s ability to maintain the quality of existing services, which may adversely affect the Group’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Regulation of wholesale and retail charges In terms of roaming, the regulated “Eurotariffs” were reduced on July 1, 2014 (in the wholesale market, the price of data was reduced by 67%, the price of call by 50%; and in the retail market, the price of data was reduced by 55%, the price of outgoing voice call by 21%, the price of incoming voice call by 28% and the price of outgoing texts by 25%), as per the regulation approved in 2012. The structural roaming solutions which could lead to a price decrease in the intra-European Union roaming services also took effect in July 2014. Furthermore, the package of DSM measures mentioned above, which is under discussion, also includes a proposal to eliminate European Union roaming charges as of a yet to be determined date. However, the European Parliament proposed the “end of roaming” by December 15, 2015 in a proposal known as “Roaming Like at Home”. The decreases in wholesale mobile network termination rates (“MTR”) in Europe are also noteworthy. In the United Kingdom, wholesale MTRs have been reduced to 0.845 ppm (pence/minute) from April 1, 2014 (representing a 0.3% reduction compared to the previous rates). In a consultation document published in June 2014, Ofcom has proposed a further reduction to 0.545 ppm, from April 1, 2015. In Germany, on September 3, 2014, the BNetzA adopted a proposal to reduce MTRs. The new prices will gradually decrease to 0.0172 euro/minute from December 1, 2014, and in a second stage, from 0.0172 euro/minute to 0.0166 euro/minute from December 1, 2015 until the end of November 2016. The European Commission has requested that the German regulator withdraw or amend its latest decision on mobile termination rates, in force as at the date of this Annual Report. There is a risk that the European Commission will initiate infringement proceedings against Germany, and rates may be further reduced. In Spain, the National Regulatory & Competition Authority (Comisión Nacional de los Mercados y la Competencia) has adopted a final decision on the third round analysis of the wholesale market for fixed call termination. From November 1, 19 Table of Contents 2014, a symmetric fixed termination rate (“FTR”) of 0.0817 euro cents/minute applies, based on pure bottom-up long run incremental costs (“BU-LRIC”) meaning that billing must be entirely conducted on a “per second” basis, without a peak/off-peak differentiation. The decision therefore eliminates the asymmetry in FTRs that existed since 2006 when alternative network operators were allowed to charge up to 30% above Telefónica’s per minute local FTR. It also brings forth an important reduction in average termination prices for Telefónica (by 80%) in comparison to the former applicable tariffs. In Latin America, there are also moves to review MTRs leading to these being reduced. Thus, for example, developments in Mexico are among the most relevant, where the IFT has declared the América Móvil Group a preponderant operator in the telecommunications market. As a result, on March 26, 2014, it introduced, among others, special regulations on asymmetric interconnection rates. In that sense, the Federal Telecommunications and Broadcasting law, effective as of August 13, 2014, imposed several obligations on the preponderant operator, which are quite extensive and, in principle, potentially significantly beneficial to Telefónica’s competitive position, particularly with regards to the measures imposed on preponderant operators (to the extent they nominally retain such qualification). With regards to MTR, Telefónica México filed an administrative appeal against the 2011 resolutions of the Federal Telecommunications Commission of México (Cofetel) regarding mobile network termination rates (representing a 61% reduction compared to the previous rates). As of the date of this Annual Report, no ruling has been made on this appeal. Recently, IFT determined the mobile termination rates for 2012, and Telefónica México filed an injunction against this rate. Once these appeals have been concluded, the rates applied may be further reduced retroactively. As of the date of this Annual Report, IFT has not approved the termination rates for 2013, 2014 or 2015 for Telefónica México. In Brazil, at the end of 2012, ANATEL launched the “Plano Geral de Metas de Competição” (“PGMC”) regarding fixed-mobile rate adjustment reductions until February 2016 and amending the previous reduction conditions (75% of the 2013 rate in 2014 and 50% of the 2013 rate in 2015). In order to complement reductions and approach the cost of the services according to a financial cost model, on July 7, 2014, ANATEL published reference values for MTR taking effect from 2016 to 2019. Such reductions are approximately 44% per year. Furthermore, there are several legislative initiatives that aim to abolish the basic fee of fixed-telephony service. “Price protection” practices (reimbursement of differences in prices of a product to customers if this falls within a relative short period of time) may also have a negative impact in Telefónica Brasil, in both economic and image terms. In Chile, a tariff decree was issued to set fixed-line termination charges for the 2014-2019 periods. The new tariff entered into effect on May 8, 2014 and applies a reduction of 37% in prices against those charged for the period prior to such tariff. A tariff decree has been issued for mobile networks covering the 2014-2019 five-year period. Such tariff decree entered into effect on January 25, 2014 and implies a reduction of 74.7% with respect to the previous rates. After a review by the general comptroller (Contraloría General) an additional 1.7% reduction was approved on May 27, 2014. In Ecuador the rate-related risks relate to a reduction in rural and urban telephony charges, a reimbursement of top-up balances, as well as rounding to the nearest minute. The implementation of the Enabling Act (Ley Habilitante) in Venezuela also confers full powers to the President to implement price control measures. Under this Act, in January 2014, an organic fair price law was issued, which caps the revenue of related enterprises at 30% of their operating costs. In relation to MTRs with the national operator of reference (Compañía Anónima Nacional Teléfonos de Venezuela) (“CANTV”), these have been reduced by 6% compared to the previous rates. In November 2014, near the end of the term allowing the enactment of laws autonomously granted to the President of the Republic, new important decree-laws were enacted, in particular, the Reform of the Law on Foreign Investment, in which, among other things, new requirements for the return of foreign investment were established; the Reform of the Antitrust Law, which was predominantly aimed at enhancing monopoly control regulation and increasing penalties for infringement; and the Reform of the Exchange Crimes Law, which increased economic sanctions. In Colombia, on December 30, 2014, the Colombian regulator (“CRC”) enacted Resolution 4660 establishing a gradual reduction for MTRs. The glide path initiates in 2015 in 32.88 Colombian pesos per minute representing a decrease of 41.7% and then descends approximately 42.2% in 2016 and 42.2% in 2017 (each such reduction being as compared to the previous year). This regulatory measure also imposes asymmetric MTRs to the dominant provider (the América Móvil Group), imposing the final rate established in the glide path from 2015 to 2017. The CRC also regulated the charges for national roaming and the SMS termination rates, setting a reduction of 41.5% in 2015, 39.6% in 2016 and 43.3% in 2017 (each such reduction being as compared to the previous year). 20 Table of Contents Regulation of universal services Further to its formal obligation to review the scope of the Universal Service Directive (the set of basic electronic communication services whose provision is guaranteed to any user requesting it, regardless of its location, with a specified quality at an affordable price), the European Commission is expected to undertake a public consultation in the months following the date of this Annual Report, which may include both the potential inclusion of broadband in its scope and a possible reduction of some of the current universal service obligations. Depending on the terms that will be set forth in the new regulation, implementation at a local level could lead to higher costs for both the universal service provider and the operators forced to finance the universal service. The last Plano Geral de Metas de Universalização (“PGMU”) was published in Brazil on June 30, 2011 and applies to the 2011-2015 period. This sets goals for public phones, low cost fixed-lines and coverage density in rural and poor areas with 2.5GHz/450 MHz. Also according to such PGMU, the assets assigned to the provision of the services described in the public concession agreement are considered reversible assets. In 2014, ANATEL issued a public consultation with its proposals for the 2015-2020 period universalization targets. The agency’s proposal focuses on reducing the distance between public telephones and backhaul’s expansion. Regulation of fiber networks In December 2014, the Spanish National Regulatory & Competition Authority (Comisión Nacional de los Mercados y la Competencia) has conducted a public consultation on the regulatory obligations for broadband market regulation in Spain. As a result of this consultation, the new regulation that will apply to NGN (Next Generation Networks) could be approved in the fourth quarter of 2015 and will last for at least three years. This could increase Telefónica's regulatory obligations in Spain and the ability of other operators to compete in such market. In Colombia, the regulatory authority CRC published a regulatory project for transmission capacity between municipalities through fiber networks or connectivity to impose open network and elements access through a mandatory offer for those enterprises that have overcapacity and have some unused installed network elements. This project will be discussed in the first half of 2015. Regulations on privacy In Europe, a new Data Protection Regulation is undergoing the European legislative process which, as the date of this Annual Report, is not expected to end before mid-2015. This could lead to certain critical provisions laid down in the current draft of the regulation (presently under debate) being worded in such a way that stops or hinders Telefónica from launching some services, that focus on the processing of personal data. In Brazil, triggered by the approval of Civil Rights Framework for Internet Governance, which provides certain generic rules about data protection, the Ministry of Justice could in the near future, adopt the final version of the Draft Personal Data Protection Act. This could lead to a greater number of obligations for operators in relation to the collection of personal data of telecom services users and further restrictions on the treatment of such data. Regulation of functional separation The principles established in Europe’s common regulatory framework, adopted in 2009 and transposed in the national legislation of each Member State in which Telefónica operates could result in greater regulatory pressure on the local competitive environment. Specifically, this framework supports the possibility of national regulators (in specific cases and under exceptional conditions) forcing operators with significant market power and vertically-integrated operators to separate their wholesale and retail businesses at a functional level. They would therefore be required to offer equal wholesale terms to third-party operators that acquire these products. Regulation of network neutrality In Europe, national regulators are seeking to strengthen their supervision of operators with regard to the blocking of access, discrimination of applications or Internet service quality. The European Parliament and the Council are simultaneously debating the draft of the European DSM Regulation proposed by the European Commission that, among other things, deals with the principle of network neutrality. The regulation of network neutrality could directly affect 21 Table of Contents possible future business models of Telefónica and may affect the network management or differentiation of characteristics and quality of Internet access service. Telefónica is present in countries where net neutrality has already been ruled, such as Chile, Colombia, Peru and more recently Brazil, but this remains a live issue and with varying degrees of development in other countries where it operates. In Germany, the Economy Minister withdrew a draft law that it published on June 20, 2013, to regulate net neutrality, especially with regard to the blocking and discrimination of content and Internet services. It plans to submit a new draft after the EU has settled on a position on net neutrality within the DSM approach, which might occur in early 2015. In addition, one German region (Bundesland of Thuringia) has passed a new law (which applies only in such region) with the aim that broadcasting and tele-media may not be blocked, limited or treated differently from other data traffic. If changes to regulation such as those described above, or otherwise, occur in the various jurisdictions where the Telefónica Group operates, it could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For a detailed description of these regulations see Appendix VII of the Consolidated Financial Statements “Key Regulatory Issues and Concessions and Licenses Held by the Telefónica Group”. The Telefónica Group is exposed to risks in relation to compliance with anti-corruption laws and regulations and economic sanctions programs. The Telefónica Group is required to comply with the laws and regulations of various jurisdictions where it conducts operations. In particular, the Group’s international operations are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (“FCPA”) and the United Kingdom Bribery Act of 2010 (the “Bribery Act”), and economic sanction programs, including those administered by the United Nations, the European Union and the United States, including the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). The FCPA prohibits providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business or securing any improper business advantage. As part of the Telefónica Group’s business, it may deal with entities, the employees of which are considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA. In addition, economic sanctions programs restrict the Group’s business dealings with certain sanctioned countries, individuals and entities. Although the Group has internal policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable anti-corruption laws and sanctions regulations, there can be no assurance that such policies and procedures will be sufficient or that the Group’s employees, directors, officers, partners, agents and service providers will not take actions in violation of the Group’s policies and procedures (or otherwise in violation of the relevant anti-corruption laws and sanctions regulations) for which the Group or they may be ultimately held responsible. Violations of anti-corruption laws and sanctions regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. Customers' perceptions of services offered by the Company may put it at a disadvantage compared to competitors' offerings. Customers' perceptions of the assistance and services offered are critical to operating in highly-competitive markets. The ability to predict and respond to the changing needs and demands of customers affects the Company's competitive position relative to other technology sector companies, and its ability to extract the value generated during this process of transformation. Failure to do so adequately could have an adverse impact on the Group's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Company may not be able to adequately foresee and respond to technological changes and sector trends. In a sector characterized by rapid technological change, it is essential to be able to offer the products and services demanded by the market and consider the impacts of changes in the life cycle of technical assets, secure margins and select the right investments to make. The Telefónica Group operates in markets that are highly competitive and subject to constant technological development. Therefore, as a consequence of both of these characteristics, it is subject to the effects of actions by competitors in these markets and to its ability to anticipate and adapt, in a timely manner, to constant technological changes, changes in customer preferences that are taking place in the industry, as well as economic, political and social circumstances. 22 Table of Contents Failure to do so adequately could have an adverse impact on the Group's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. New products and technologies arise constantly, and their development can render obsolete the products and services the Telefónica Group offers and the technology it uses. This means that Telefónica must invest in the development of new products, technology and services so it can continue to compete effectively with current or future competitors, and which may result in the decrease of the Group's profits and revenue margins. In this respect, margins from traditional voice and data business are shrinking, while new sources of revenues are deriving from mobile Internet and connectivity services that are being launched. Research and development costs amounted to 1,111 million euros and 1,046 million euros in 2014 and 2013, respectively; representing an increase of 6.2% from 1,046 million euros in 2013. These expenses represented 2.2% and 1.8% of the Group's consolidated revenue, respectively. These figures have been calculated using the guidelines established in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) manual. One technology that telecommunications operators, including Telefónica (in Spain and Latin America), are focused on is the new FTTx-type network, which offers broadband access using optical fiber with superior services, such as Internet speed of up to 100MB or HD television services. However, substantial investment is required to deploy these networks, which entails fully or partially substituting copper loop access with optic fiber. While an increasing demand for the capabilities offered by these new networks to end users exists, the high level of the investments requires a continuous analysis of the return on investment. The explosion of the digital market and entry of new players in communications market, such as MVNOs, Internet companies or device manufacturers, may cause the loss of value of certain assets, and affect the Group’s ability to generate income. Therefore, it is necessary to update the business model, encouraging the pursuit of incomes and additional efficiencies to those followed traditionally. Failure to do so adequately could have an adverse impact on the Group's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the ability of the Telefónica Group's IT systems (operational and backup) to respond the Company's operating requirements is a key factor to be taken into account with respect to the commercial development, customer satisfaction and business efficiency. The Company depends on its suppliers. The existence of critical suppliers in the supply chain, especially in areas such as network infrastructure, information systems or handsets, with a high concentration in a small number of suppliers, poses risks that may affect the Company’s operations, and may cause legal contingencies or damages to the Company's image in the event that inappropriate practices are produced by a participant in the supply chain. As of December 31, 2014, the Telefónica Group depended on six handset suppliers and 11 network infrastructure suppliers, which together accounted for 80% of the awarded contracts for the year then ended. These suppliers may, among other things, extend delivery times, raise prices and limit supply due to their own stock shortfalls and business requirements. If these suppliers fail to deliver products and services to the Telefónica Group on a timely basis, it could jeopardize network deployment and expansion plans, which in some cases could adversely affect the Telefónica Group's ability to satisfy its license terms and requirements, or otherwise have an adverse impact on the Group's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Unanticipated network interruptions can lead to quality loss or the interruption of the service. Unanticipated network interruptions as a result of system failures, including those due to network, hardware or software, stealing of infrastructure elements or cyber-attacks, which affect the quality of or cause an interruption in the Telefónica Group's service, could lead to customer dissatisfaction, reduced revenues and traffic, costly repairs, penalties or other measures imposed by regulatory authorities and could harm the Telefónica Group's image and reputation. Telefónica attempts to mitigate these risks through a number of measures, including backup systems and protective systems such as firewalls, virus scanners and other physical and logical security. However, these measures are not always effective. Although the Telefónica Group has insurance policies to cover these types of incidents, and the claims and loss in revenue caused by service interruptions to date have been covered by these policies, these policies may not be sufficient to cover all possible monetary losses. 23 Table of Contents The telecommunications industry may be affected by the possible effects of electromagnetic fields, emitted by mobile devices and base stations, may have on human health. In some countries, there is a concern regarding potential effects of electromagnetic fields, emitted by mobile devices and base stations, on human health. This public concern has caused certain governments and administrations to take measures that have hindered the deployment of the infrastructures necessary to ensure quality of service, and affected the deployment criteria of new networks and digital services such as smart meters development. There is a consensus between certain expert groups and public health agencies, including the World Health Organization (WHO), that states that currently there are no established risks associated with exposure to low frequency signals in mobile communications. However, the scientific community is still investigating this issue especially with respect to mobile devices. Exposure limits for radio frequency suggested in the guidelines of the Protection of Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection Committee (ICNIRP) have been internationally recognized. The mobile industry has adopted these exposure limits and works to request authorities worldwide to adopt these standards. Worries about radio frequency emissions may discourage the use of mobile devices and new digital services, which could cause the public authorities to implement measures restricting where transmitters and cell sites can be located, how they operate, the use of mobile telephones and the massive deployment of smart meters and other products using mobile technology. This could lead to the Company being unable to expand or improve its mobile network. The adoption of new measures by governments or administrations or other regulatory interventions in this respect, and any future assessment on the adverse impact of electromagnetic fields on health, may negatively affect the business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows of the Telefónica Group. Possible regulatory, business, economic or political changes could lead to asset impairment. The Telefónica Group reviews on an annual basis, or more frequently when the circumstances require it, the value of assets and cash-generating units, to assess whether their carrying values can be supported by the future expected cash flows, including, in some cases synergies allowed for in acquisition costs. Potential changes in the regulatory, business, economic or political environment may result in the need to introduce changes to estimates made and to recognize impairments in goodwill, intangible assets or fixed assets. Although the recognition of impairments of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and financial assets results in a non-cash charge on the income statement, it could adversely affect the results of the Telefónica Group’s operations. In this respect, the Telefónica Group has experienced impairments on certain of its investments, affecting its results of operations in the year in which they were experienced. For example, with respect to the investment in Telco, S.p.A. (“Telco”), value adjustments were made in fiscal years 2013 and 2014 with a negative impact of 267 million euros and 464 million euros, respectively. The Telefónica Group's networks carry and store large volumes of confidential, personal and corporate data, and its Internet access and hosting services may lead to claims for illegal or illicit use of the Internet. The Telefónica Group's networks carry and store large volumes of confidential, personal and business data, through both voice and data traffic. The Telefónica Group stores increasing quantities and types of customer data in both business and consumer segments. Despite its best efforts to prevent it, the Telefónica Group may be found liable for any loss, transfer, or inappropriate modification of the customer data or general public data stored on its servers or transmitted through its networks, any of which could involve many people and have an impact on the Group's reputation, or lead to legal claims and liabilities that are difficult to measure in advance. In addition, the Telefónica Group’s Internet access and hosting servers could lead to claims for illegal or unlawful use of the Internet. Telefónica, like other telecommunications providers, may be held liable for any loss, transfer or inappropriate modification of the customer data stored on its servers or carried by its networks. In most countries in which the Telefónica Group operates, the provision of its Internet access and hosting services (including the operation of websites with shelf-generated content) are regulated under a limited liability regime applicable to the content that it makes available to the public as a technical service provider, particularly content protected by copyright or similar laws. However, regulatory changes have been introduced imposing additional obligations on access providers (such as blocking access to a website) as part of the struggle against some illegal or illicit uses of the Internet, notably in Europe. 24 Table of Contents Any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on the business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Group. Telefónica and Telefónica Group companies are party to lawsuits, tax claims, antitrust and other legal proceedings. Telefónica and Telefónica Group companies are party to lawsuits, tax claims and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of their businesses, the financial outcome of which is unpredictable. An adverse outcome or settlement in these or other proceedings could result in significant costs and may have a material adverse effect on the Group's business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and cash flows. In particular, regarding tax and antitrust claims, the Telefónica Group has open judicial procedures in Peru concerning the clearance of previous years' income tax, for which a contentious-administrative appeal is currently pending, as well as in Brazil, with CADE’s (Conselho Administrativo de Defesa Ecônomica) resolution with regard to the acquisition of a 50% stake in Vivo and with certain open tax procedures, primarily relating to the CIMS (a Brazilian tax on telecommunication services). Further details on these matters are provided in Notes 21 and 17 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. 