Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements contained in this Report, including our ability to introduce new homes and new floor plans, our ability to pass various costs on to our customers, the availability and cost of raw materials, expanding shipments and sales, our relationship with our employees, the outcome of legal proceedings or claims, our strategy to diversify, compliance with the covenants in our credit facilities and the impact of our inability to do so, changes to our capital structure, our expected capital expenditures, the impact of contingent repurchase obligations and other contingent liabilities or obligations on the results of our operations and the adequacy of our cash flow from operations to fund capital expenditures, could be construed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of U.S. federal securities laws. In addition, Champion or persons acting on our behalf may from time to time publish or communicate other items that could also be construed to be forward-looking statements. Statements of this sort are, or will be, based on the Company’s then current estimates, assumptions and projections and are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those specifically listed below that could cause actual results to differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements. The Company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements or risk factors to reflect future events or circumstances. The following risk factors could affect the Company’s operating results. The credit crisis — The credit crisis has significantly affected the financial markets and the economies in the U.S., Canada and the U.K., the countries in which we operate. The current global credit crisis has significantly affected the financial markets and the economies in the U.S., Canada and the U.K., the countries in which we operate. The housing markets in the U.S. have also been significantly impacted by the credit crisis. Conditions in the U.S. are likely to affect the availability and cost of financing for the retailers and builder-developers who buy our homes and for individual home buyers. Additionally, the selling prices of homes that we market in the U.S. may be pressured due to competition from excess inventories of new and pre-owned homes and from foreclosures. The credit crisis and its impact on the world economies could also affect the availability and cost of financing and selling prices in our markets in western Canada. A substantial portion of our revenue in the U.K is from two large public sector customers who rely on public (government) and private funding. The credit crisis and its impact on the British economy could affect the availability and cost of financing in the U.K. and could result in loss of funding or delays for projects that we have been awarded. In addition, it could negatively affect our ability to gain new contracts for future projects. Therefore, the current credit crisis could negatively affect our operations and result in lower sales, income and cash flows. 9 Table of Contents Further, our significant negative working capital position in the U.K. is highly correlated with our revenues and, as such, a further decline in revenues could result in a significant reduction in our operating cash flow. We have a significant amount of debt outstanding that contains financial covenants with which we must comply. Without improvements in the current housing and credit markets, it is possible that we will not be in compliance with covenants which take effect in the first quarter of our 2010 fiscal year, absent a significant reduction in our senior debt. Further, if our markets deteriorate further in 2009 there can be no assurance that we will maintain compliance with our 2009 financial covenants, which were modified in October 2008. These covenants are measured at each quarter end and require that we attain minimum levels of EBITDA and liquidity as defined by our Credit Agreement. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt before maturity. If conditions in the credit market were to persist throughout 2009, there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any or all of this indebtedness. New York Stock Exchange — We have received notice from the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) that we are not in compliance with the exchange’s continued listing standards because the average closing share price of Champion’s common stock for a consecutive 30-day trading period fell below $1.00. The listing of our common stock on the NYSE is at risk as a result of our average stock price falling below $1.00 per share over a consecutive 30-day trading period. While the Company has a period of six months from the date it received notice to cure this non-compliance, and we have a number of options to cure under consideration, there can be no assurance that we will be able to cure this deficiency in the time permitted. In addition, there can be no guarantee that the Company will remain in compliance with other continued listing requirements related to market capitalization and stockholder’s equity. We also maintain a listing for our common stock on the Chicago Stock Exchange (“CHX”), and are currently in compliance with all of its applicable listing maintenance requirements. In the current environment there can be no assurance that we will not be in violation of other NYSE listing standards or CHX maintenance requirements, some of which may not be curable. Our convertible debt requires that our common stock be listed on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange. Our failure to be so listed may constitute a fundamental change whereby the holders of our convertible notes could require us to purchase with cash their notes at face value. In the event the Company’s common stock is delisted from the stock exchanges there are additional risks such as the impact on the market liquidity of our common stock, the impact on our ability to raise capital or issue certain types of debt, and general issues regarding our perception in the marketplace. Significant debt — Our significant debt could limit our ability to obtain additional financing, require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations for debt service and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. If we are unable to pay our debt obligations when due, we could be in default under our debt agreements and our lenders could accelerate our debt or take other actions which could restrict our operations. As discussed in Note 5 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Report, we have a significant amount of debt outstanding, consisting primarily of Term Loans due in 2012 and Convertible Senior Notes (the “Convertible Notes”) due in 2037. Holders of the Convertible Notes may require us to repurchase the Notes in the event we are involved in certain types of corporate transactions or other events constituting a fundamental change and, in addition, holders have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Notes on November 1 of 2012, 2017, 2022, 2027 and 2032. We have the right to redeem the Convertible Notes, in whole or in part, for cash at any time after October 31, 2012. We may incur additional debt to finance acquisitions or for other purposes. This indebtedness could, among other things: • limit our ability to obtain future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, surety bonds, or other requirements; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and reduce our ability to use our cash flows for other purposes; 10 Table of Contents • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we compete; • place us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors with less indebtedness; and • make us more vulnerable in the event of a further downturn in our business or in general economic conditions. Our business may not generate cash flows from operations in amounts sufficient to pay our debt or to fund other liquidity needs. The factors that affect our ability to generate cash can also affect our ability to raise additional funds through the sale of equity securities, the refinancing of debt or the sale of assets. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to refinance our debt obligations, we could be in default under our debt agreements and our lenders could accelerate our debt or take other actions that could restrict our operations. Fluctuations in operating results — The cyclical and seasonal nature of our construction businesses has caused our sales and operating results to fluctuate. These fluctuations, which have caused operating losses in the past, may continue to occur in the future, which could result in additional operating losses during future downturns. The North American housing market is highly cyclical and is influenced by many national and regional economic and demographic factors, including: • terms and availability of financing for homebuyers and retailers; • consumer confidence; • interest rates; • population and employment trends; • income levels; • housing demand; and • general economic conditions, including inflation, and recessions. The factory-built housing industry is also affected by seasonality. Sales during the period from March to November are traditionally higher than in other months. As a result of the foregoing factors, our sales and operating results fluctuate, and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future. In addition, our U.K. commercial modular construction business is highly cyclical and it, too, is influenced by numerous national and regional economic factors, including: • availability of project financing; • availability of government funding for prison, military and education construction projects; • population and employment trends; and • general economic conditions, including inflation and recessions. Moreover, we may experience operating losses during future cyclical and seasonal downturns in our markets as we are now and have in the past. Consumer financing availability — Tight credit standards and loan terms, curtailed lending activity, and increased interest rates among consumer lenders could reduce our sales. If consumer financing were to become further curtailed, our sales could decline and our operating results and cash flows could suffer. The consumers who buy our homes have historically secured consumer financing from third party lenders. The availability, terms and costs of consumer financing depend on the lending practices of financial institutions, government regulations and economic and other conditions, all of which are beyond our control. A consumer 11 Table of Contents seeking to finance the purchase of a manufactured home without land will generally pay a higher interest rate and have a shorter loan term than a consumer seeking to finance the home along with the real estate on which it will be placed. Manufactured home consumer financing is at times more difficult to obtain than financing for site-built and modular homes. Between 1999 and 2003, consumer lenders tightened the credit underwriting standards and loan terms and increased interest rates for loans to purchase manufactured homes, which reduced lending volumes and caused our sales to decline. During 2008 one of the national lenders exited the market. In addition, the current credit crisis has caused certain lenders to further tighten underwriting guidelines and increase pricing and may result in further curtailment of lending or additional lenders exiting the market. The poor performance of portfolios of manufactured housing consumer loans in past years has made it more difficult for industry consumer finance companies to obtain long-term capital. As a result, consumer finance companies have curtailed their industry lending and many have exited the manufactured housing market. Additionally, the industry has seen certain traditional real estate mortgage lenders tighten terms or discontinue financing for manufactured housing. If consumer financing for manufactured homes were to be further curtailed, we would likely experience sales declines and our operating results and cash flows would suffer. Floor plan financing availability — A reduction in floor plan credit availability or tighter loan terms to our independent retailers could cause our manufacturing sales to decline. As a result, our operating results and cash flows could suffer. Many independent retailers of our manufactured homes finance their inventory purchases with floor plan financing provided by lending institutions. Reduced availability of floor plan lending or tighter floor plan terms, both of which occurred in late 2008, may affect our independent retailers’ inventory levels of new homes, the number of retail sales centers and related wholesale demand. As a result, we could experience manufacturing sales declines or a higher level of retailer defaults and our operating results and cash flows could suffer. Contingent liabilities — We have, and will continue to have, significant contingent repurchase obligations and other contingent obligations, some of which could become actual obligations that we must satisfy. We may incur losses under these contingent repurchase obligations or be required to fund these or other contingent obligations that would reduce our cash flows. In connection with a floor plan arrangement for our manufacturing shipments to independent retailers, the financial institution that provides the retailer financing customarily requires us to enter into a separate repurchase agreement with the financial institution. Under this separate agreement, generally for a period up to 18 months from the date of our sale to the retailer, upon default by the retailer and repossession of the home by the financial institution, we are generally obligated to repurchase the home from the lender at a price equal to the unpaid principal amount of the loan, plus certain administrative and handling expenses, reduced by the cost of any damage to the home and any missing parts or accessories. Our estimated aggregate contingent repurchase obligation at January 3, 2009 was significant and included significant contingent repurchase obligations relating to our largest independent retail customers. For additional discussion see “Contingent Repurchase Obligations — Manufacturing Segment” in Item 7 and Note 13 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Report. We may be required to honor some or all of our contingent repurchase obligations in the future, which would result in operating losses and reduced cash flows. At January 3, 2009, we also had contingent obligations related to surety bonds and letters of credit. For additional detail and discussion, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7 of this Report. If we were required to fund a material amount of these contingent obligations, we would have reduced cash flows and could incur losses. Dependence upon independent retailers — If we are unable to establish or maintain relationships with independent retailers who sell our homes, our sales could decline and our operating results and cash flows could suffer. During 2008, approximately 94% of our manufacturing shipments of homes were made to independent retail locations throughout the United States and western Canada. As is common in the industry, independent retailers may sell manufactured homes produced by competing manufacturers. We may not be able to establish relationships 12 Table of Contents with new independent retailers or maintain good relationships with independent retailers that sell our homes. Even if we do establish and maintain relationships with independent retailers, these retailers are not obligated to sell our manufactured homes exclusively, and may choose to sell our competitors’ homes instead. The independent retailers with whom we have relationships can cancel these relationships on short notice. In addition, these retailers may not remain financially solvent, as they are subject to the same industry, economic, demographic and seasonal trends that we face. If we do not establish and maintain relationships with solvent independent retailers in the markets we serve, sales in those markets could decline and our operating results and cash flows could suffer. Cost and availability of raw materials — Prices of certain materials can fluctuate significantly and availability of certain materials may be limited at times. Prices of certain materials such as lumber, insulation, steel, drywall, oil based products and fuel can fluctuate significantly due to changes in demand and supply. Additionally, availability of certain materials such as drywall and insulation may be limited at times resulting in higher prices and/or the need to find alternative suppliers. We generally have been able to maintain adequate supplies of materials and to pass higher material costs on to our customers in the form of surcharges and base price increases. However, it is not certain that future price increases can be passed on to our customers without affecting demand or that limited availability of materials will not impact our production capabilities. The current credit crisis and its impact on the financial and housing markets may also impact our suppliers and affect the availability or pricing of materials. Effect on liquidity — Industry conditions and our operating results have limited our sources of capital in the past. If we are unable to locate suitable sources of capital when needed we may be unable to maintain or expand our business. We depend on our cash balances, our cash flows from operations and our senior secured credit agreement, as amended, (the “Credit Agreement”) to finance our operating requirements, capital expenditures and other needs. The downturn in the manufactured housing industry, combined with our operating results and other changes, has limited our sources of financing in the past. If our cash balances, cash flows from operations, and availability under our Credit Agreement are insufficient to finance our operations and alternative capital is not available, we may not be able to expand our business and make acquisitions, or we may need to curtail or limit our existing operations. We have a significant amount of surety bonds and letters of credit representing collateral for our casualty insurance programs and for general operating purposes. The letters of credit are issued under our Credit Agreement. For additional detail and information concerning the amounts of our surety bonds and letters of credit, see Note 13 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Report. The inability to retain our current letter of credit and surety bond providers, to obtain alternative bonding or letter of credit sources or to retain our current Credit Agreement to support these programs could require us to post cash collateral, reduce the amount of cash available for our operations or cause us to curtail or limit existing operations. Competition — The factory-built housing industry is very competitive. If we are unable to effectively compete, our growth could be limited, our sales could decline and our operating results and cash flows could suffer. The factory-built housing industry is highly competitive at both the manufacturing and retail levels, with competition based, among other things, on price, product features, reputation for service and quality, merchandising, terms of retailer promotional programs and the terms of consumer financing. Numerous companies produce factory-built homes in our markets. Some of our manufacturing competitors have captive retail distribution systems and consumer finance operations. In addition, there are independent factory-built housing retail locations in most areas where independent retailers sell our homes and in California where we have retail operations. Because barriers to entry to the industry at both the manufacturing and retail levels are low, we believe that it is relatively easy for new competitors to enter our markets. In addition, our products compete with other forms of low to moderate-cost housing, including site-built homes, panelized homes, apartments, townhouses and condominiums. If we are unable to effectively compete in this environment, our manufacturing shipments and retail sales could be reduced. As a result, our sales could decline and our operating results and cash flows could suffer. Zoning — If the factory-built housing industry is not able to secure favorable local zoning ordinances, our sales could decline and our operating results and cash flows could suffer. 13 Table of Contents Limitations on the number of sites available for placement of manufactured homes or on the operation of manufactured housing communities could reduce the demand for manufactured homes and our sales. Manufactured housing communities and individual home placements are subject to local zoning ordinances and other local regulations relating to utility service and construction of roadways. In the past, some property owners have resisted the adoption of zoning ordinances permitting the use of manufactured homes in residential areas, which we believe has restricted the growth of the industry. Manufactured homes may not receive widespread acceptance and localities may not adopt zoning ordinances permitting the development of manufactured home communities. If the manufactured housing industry is unable to secure favorable local zoning ordinances, our sales could decline and our operating results and cash flows could suffer. Dependence upon executive officers and other key personnel — The loss of any of our executive officers or other key personnel could reduce our ability to manage our businesses and achieve our business plan, which could cause our sales to decline and our operating results and cash flows to suffer. We depend on the continued services and performance of our executive officers and other key personnel. If we lose the service of any of our executive officers or other key personnel, it could reduce our ability to manage our businesses and achieve our business plan, which could cause our sales to decline and our operating results and cash flows to suffer. Restrictive covenants — The terms of our debt place operating restrictions on us and contain various financial performance and other covenants with which we must remain in compliance. If we do not remain in compliance with these covenants, certain of our debt facilities could be terminated and the amounts outstanding thereunder could become immediately due and payable. The documents governing the terms of our Credit Agreement contain financial and non-financial covenants that place restrictions on us. The terms of this agreement include covenants that, for the four quarters in 2009, require that we attain minimum levels of EBITDA and liquidity, and beginning in the first quarter of our 2010 fiscal year, allow for a maximum leverage limit and require minimum levels of interest coverage and fixed charge coverage. These and other non-financial covenants, to varying degrees, restrict our ability to: • make capital investments; • engage in new lines of business; • incur indebtedness, contingent liabilities, guarantees, and liens; • pay dividends or issue common stock; • redeem or refinance existing indebtedness; • redeem or repurchase common stock and redeem, repay or repurchase subordinated debt; • make investments in subsidiaries that are not subsidiary guarantors; • enter into joint ventures; • sell certain assets or enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • transfer cash between U.S. and foreign affiliates; • acquire, consolidate with, or merge with or into other companies; and • enter into transactions with affiliates. If we fail to comply with any of these covenants, the lenders could cause our debt to become due and payable prior to maturity, or result in refinancing the related indebtedness under unfavorable terms. If our debt were accelerated, our assets might not be sufficient to repay our debt in full. As of January 3, 2009, we were in compliance with all Credit Agreement covenants. For additional detail and discussion concerning these financial covenants see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7 of this Report. 14 Table of Contents Our potential inability to integrate acquired operations could have a negative effect on our expenses and results of operations. In the past, we have grown through strategic acquisitions and we may engage in strategic acquisitions in the future to strengthen and expand our operating capabilities and further diversify our revenue base. The full benefits of these acquisitions, however, require integration of manufacturing, administrative, financial, sales, and marketing approaches and personnel. If we are unable to successfully integrate these acquisitions, we may not realize the benefits of the acquisitions, and our financial results may be negatively affected. Completed acquisitions may also lead to significant unexpected liabilities above and beyond the level of available indemnities contained in the purchase agreements. Potential Dilution — Conversions by holders of our convertible securities and potential capital, debt reduction, or acquisition transactions effected with issuances of our common stock could result in dilution and impair the price of our common stock. We currently have $180 million of 2.75% Convertible Notes outstanding. The Convertible Notes are convertible into approximately 8.6 million shares or more of our common stock, depending on the market price of our common stock near the conversion date. To the extent that holders convert their Convertible Notes into shares of the Company’s common stock, other common shareholders would experience dilution in their percentage ownership interests. To the extent we decide to reduce debt obligations or finance investments through the issuance of common stock or instruments convertible into common stock, our then existing common shareholders could experience dilution in their percentage ownership interests. We may seek additional sources of capital and financing in the future or issue securities in connection with retiring our outstanding indebtedness or making acquisitions, the terms of which could result in additional dilution. In addition, to remain in compliance with the continued listing standards of the NYSE, the Company may elect a reverse stock split. In the event of such action, there can be no guarantee the price of our stock will remain constant or proportional to the split and additional risks may exist related to market liquidity and market capitalization, among others. Potential impairment charges — We have a significant amount of goodwill, amortizable intangible assets and property, plant and equipment which are subject to periodic review and testing for impairment. A significant portion of our total assets at January 3, 2009 were comprised of goodwill, amortizable intangible assets, and property, plant and equipment. Under generally accepted accounting principles each of these assets is subject to periodic review and testing to determine whether the asset is recoverable or realizable. These tests require projections of future cash flows and estimates of fair value of the assets. Unfavorable trends in the industries in which we operate or in our operations, not unlike those we are currently experiencing, can affect these projections and estimates. Significant impairment charges, although not affecting cash flow, could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position. In addition, because our stock price has declined significantly, our current equity market capitalization has fallen below our book value. This situation, were it to continue, could result in impairment charges. Operations in the U.K. — We have a significant investment in the U.K. We depend upon a few individually significant customers in our international segment. If we are unable to maintain relationships with our significant customers, our sales could decline and our operating results and cash flows could suffer. A reduction in government funding to our major customers, our inability to effectively compete in the U.K. or unfavorable changes in exchange rates could adversely affect the value of our investment in the U.K. and could significantly impact our U.K. revenues and earnings. During 2008, approximately 64% of our international segment sales were, either directly or indirectly, to two large public sector (government) customers. If we are unable to maintain relationships with these customers or establish suitable replacement customer relationships, our operating results and cash flows could suffer. Caledonian’s two major customers rely on government funding for construction projects. Reduction in government funding to either of these two customers or unfavorable changes in the markets for hotels and residential structures could significantly impact Caledonian’s revenues and earnings. 15 Table of Contents The commercial construction market in the U.K. is very competitive. If we are unable to effectively compete in this environment our revenues and earnings could suffer. Foreign exchange rates — Changes in foreign exchange rates could adversely affect the value of our investments in Canada and the U.K. and cause foreign exchange losses related to intercompany loans. We have substantial investments in businesses in Canada and the U.K. Unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates could adversely affect the value of our investment in these businesses. We use intercompany loans between our U.S. and foreign subsidiaries to provide funds for acquisitions and other purposes. Fluctuations in the relative exchange rates between the U.S. dollar, Canadian dollar and British pound could result in foreign exchange transaction losses that will be reported in our statement of operations until such loans are repaid. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 