Item 1A. Risk Factors Enterprise Risk Management In the normal course of business, TCF is exposed to various risks. Management balances the Company’s strategic goals, including revenue and profitability objectives, with the associated risks. In defining the Company’s risk profile, management organizes risks into three main categories: Credit Risk, Market Risk (which includes interest-rate risk, liquidity risk and price risk) and Operational Risk (which includes transaction risk and compliance risk). Policies, systems and procedures have been adopted which are intended to identify, assess, control, monitor, and manage risk in each of these areas. Primary responsibility for risk management lies with the heads of various business lines within the Company. Each business line within the Company maintains policies, systems and procedures which are intended to identify, assess, control, monitor, and manage risk within each area. Management continually reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of these policies, systems and procedures. As an integral part of the risk management process, management has established various committees consisting of senior executives and others within the Company. The purpose of these committees is to closely monitor risks and ensure that adequate risk management practices exist within their respective areas of authority. Some of the principal committees include the Credit Policy Committee, Asset/ Liability Management Committee (“ALCO”), Investment Committee, Capital Planning Committee and various financial reporting and compliance-related committees. Overlapping membership of these committees by senior executives and others helps provide a unified view of risk on an enterprise-wide basis. To provide an enterprise-wide view of the Company’s risk profile, an enterprise risk management governance process has been established. This includes appointment of an Enterprise Risk Management Officer, who oversees the process and reports on the Company’s risk profile. Additionally, risk officers are assigned to each significant line of business. The risk officers, while reporting directly to their respective line, facilitate implementation of the enterprise risk management and governance process. An Enterprise Risk Management Committee has been established consisting of senior executives and others within the Company, which oversees and supports the Enterprise Risk Management Officer. The Board of Directors, through its Audit Committee, has overall responsibility for oversight of the Company’s enterprise risk management governance process. 8 Credit Risk Management Credit risk is defined as the risk to earnings or capital if an obligor fails to meet the terms of any contract with the Company or otherwise fails to perform as agreed. This includes failure of customers and counterparties to meet their contractual obligations, and contingent exposures from unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit. Credit risk also includes failure of a counterparty to settle a securities transaction on agreed-upon terms (such as the counterparty in a repurchase transaction) or failure of an issuer in connection with mortgage-backed securities held in the Company’s securities available for sale portfolio. The Company manages securities transaction risk by monitoring all unsettled transactions. All counterparties and transaction limits are reviewed and approved annually by both ALCO and the Company’s senior credit committee. To further manage credit risk in the securities available for sale portfolio, over 99% of the securities held in the securities available for sale portfolio are issued and guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. To manage credit risk arising from lending and leasing activities, management has adopted and maintains sound underwriting policies and procedures, and periodically reviews the appropriateness of these policies and procedures. Customers are evaluated as part of the initial underwriting processes and through periodic reviews. For consumer loans, credit scoring models are used to help determine eligibility for credit and terms of credit. These models are periodically reviewed to verify they are predictive of borrower performance. Limits are established on the exposure to a single customer (including their affiliates) and on concentrations for certain categories of customers. Loan and lease credit approval levels are established so that larger credit exposures receive managerial review at the appropriate level through various credit committees. Management continuously monitors asset quality in order to manage the Company’s credit risk and determine the appropriateness of valuation allowances. This includes, in the case of commercial loans and leases, a risk rating methodology under which a rating (1 through 9) is assigned to every loan and lease. The rating reflects management’s assessment of the level of the customer’s financial stress which may impact repayment. Asset quality is monitored separately based on the type or category of loan or lease. This allows management to better define the Company’s loan and lease portfolio risk profile. Management also uses various risk models to estimate probable impact on payment performance under various expected or unexpected scenarios. With deteriorating economic conditions throughout 2008 and into 2009, credit risk may continue to increase. A weakening economy, increasing unemployment or further deterioration of housing markets could result in increased credit losses. Market Risk Management (Including Interest-Rate Risk and Liquidity Risk) Market risk is defined as the potential for losses arising from changes in interest rates, equity prices, and other relevant market rates or prices, and includes interest-rate risk, liquidity risk and price risk. Interest-rate risk and associated liquidity risk are the Company’s primary market risks. Interest-Rate Risk Interest-rate risk is defined as the exposure of net interest income and fair value of financial instruments (interest-earning assets, deposits and borrowings) to adverse movements in interest rates. Interest-rate risk arises mainly from the structure of the balance sheet. The primary goal of interest-rate risk management is to control exposure to interest-rate risk within acceptable tolerances established by ALCO and the Board of Directors. The major sources of the Company’s interest-rate risk are timing differences in the maturity and repricing characteristics of assets and liabilities, changes in relationships between rate indices (basis risk), changes in customer behavior and changes in the shape of the yield curve. Management measures these risks and their impact in various ways, including use of simulation analysis and valuation analysis. Simulation analysis is used to model net interest income from asset and liability positions over a specified time period (generally one year), and the sensitivity of net interest income under various interest rate scenarios. The interest rate scenarios may include gradual or rapid changes in interest rates, spread narrowing and widening, yield curve twists, and changes in assumptions about customer behavior in various interest rate scenarios. The simulation analysis is based on various key assumptions which relate to the behavior of interest rates and spreads, changes in product balances, the repricing characteristics of products, and the behavior of loan and deposit customers in different rate environments. The simulation analysis does not necessarily take into account actions management may undertake in response to anticipated changes in interest rates. 9 In addition to the valuation analysis, management utilizes an interest rate gap measure (difference between interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities repricing within a given period). While the interest rate gap measurement has some limitations, including no assumptions regarding future asset or liability production and a static interest rate assumption, the interest rate gap represents the net asset or liability sensitivity at a point in time. An interest rate gap measure could be significantly affected by external factors such as loan prepayments, early withdrawals of deposits, changes in the correlation of various interest-bearing instruments, competition or a rise or decline in interest rates. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for further information about TCF’s interest-rate risk, gap analysis and simulation analysis. Management also uses valuation analysis to measure risk in the balance sheet that might not be taken into account in the net interest income simulation analysis. Net interest income simulation highlights exposure over a relatively short time period (12 months), valuation analysis incorporates all cash flows over the estimated remaining life of all balance sheet positions. The valuation of the balance sheet, at a point in time, is defined as the discounted present value of asset cash flows minus the discounted value of liability cash flows. Valuation analysis addresses only the current balance sheet and does not incorporate the growth assumptions that are used in the net interest income simulation model. As with the net interest income simulation model, valuation analysis is based on key assumptions about the timing and variability of balance sheet cash flows. It also does not take into account actions management may undertake in response to anticipated changes in interest rates. ALCO meets regularly and is responsible for reviewing the Company’s interest rate sensitivity position and establishing policies to monitor and limit exposure to interest-rate risk. Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is defined as the risk to earnings or capital arising from the Company’s inability to meet its obligations when they come due without incurring unacceptable losses. The primary goal of liquidity risk management is to ensure that the Company’s entire funding needs are met promptly, in a cost-efficient and reliable manner. ALCO and the Board of Directors have adopted a Liquidity Management Policy to direct management of the Company’s liquidity risk. Under the Liquidity Management Policy, the Treasurer reviews current and forecasted funding needs for the Company and periodically reviews market conditions for issuing debt securities to wholesale investors. Key liquidity ratios and the amount available from alternative funding sources are reported to ALCO on a monthly basis. TCF maintains diverse sources of funding, which include $2.3 billion in secured borrowings capacity at the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Des Moines, $616 million of secured borrowing capacity at the Federal Reserve Discount Window and $1 billion in unsecured and uncommitted available lines. TCF has developed and maintains a contingency funding plan should certain liquidity needs arise. Other Market Risks Another source of market risk is the Company’s investment in FHLB stock. The investments in FHLB stock are required investments related to TCF’s borrowings from these banks. FHLBs obtain their funding primarily through issuance of consolidated obligations of the Federal Home Loan Bank system. The U.S. Government does not guarantee these obligations, and each of the 12 FHLBs are generally jointly and severally liable for repayment of each other’s debt. Recently, the FHLB system has experienced financial stress, and some of the regional banks within the FHLB system have suspended or reduced their dividends, or eliminated the ability of members to redeem capital stock. The ultimate impact of these developments on the FHLB system or its programs for advances to members is not clear. TCF’s investments in the FHLB and ability to obtain FHLB funds could be adversely impacted if the financial health of the FHLB system worsens. Operational Risk Management Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems, or external events. This definition includes transaction risk, which includes losses from fraud, error, the inability to deliver products or services, and loss or theft of information. Transaction risk encompasses product development and delivery, transaction processing, information technology systems, and the internal control environment. The definition of operational risk also includes compliance risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or nonconformance with laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices, or ethical standards. The Company’s Internal Audit Department periodically assesses the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s processes for controlling and managing risks in all core areas of operations. This includes determining whether internal controls and information systems are properly designed and adequately tested and reviewed. This also includes determining whether the system of internal controls 10 over financial reporting is appropriate for the type and level of risks posed by the nature and scope of the Company’s activities. Audit plans are prepared using a risk-based methodology as well as any concerns identified by management, the Audit Committee, regulators or the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm. Significant issues related to the adequacy of controls, together with recommendations for improvements to those controls, are reported to management and the Audit Committee. The Company’s Compliance Department and others charged with compliance responsibilities periodically assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s processes for controlling and managing its principal consumer compliance risks. Compliance Department audit plans are prepared using a risk-based methodology as well as any concerns identified by management, the Audit Committee, or regulators. Significant issues related to the adequacy of controls, together with recommendations for improvements to those controls, are reported to management and the Audit Committee. Other Risks Declines in Home Values Declines in home values in TCF’s markets have adversely impacted results of operations. Like all banks, TCF is subject to the effects of any economic downturn, and in particular, a continued decline in home values in TCF’s markets could have a further negative effect on results of operations. A significant decline in home values would likely lead to a decrease in new home equity loan originations and increased delinquencies and defaults in both the consumer home equity loan and residential real estate loan portfolios and result in increased losses in these portfolios. Economic Conditions In addition to the declines in home values, the slowing economy has also adversely impacted TCF’s results of operations. Continued slowing of the economy coupled with increased unemployment and decreased consumer spending could have a further negative effect on results of TCF’s operations through higher credit losses, lower transaction related revenues and lower average deposit balances. Customer Behavior Changes in customers’ behavior regarding use of deposit accounts could result in lower fee revenue, higher borrowing costs, and higher operational costs for TCF. TCF obtains a large portion of its revenue from its deposit accounts and depends on low-interest cost deposits as a significant source of funds. In addition, competition from other financial institutions could result in higher numbers of closed accounts and increased account acquisition costs. TCF actively monitors customer behavior and adjusts policies and marketing efforts accordingly to attract new and retain existing deposit account customers. Card Revenue Future card revenues may be impacted by class action litigation against Visa USA Inc. (Visa USA) and MasterCard®. Under Visa USA’s Bylaws, TCF has a contingent obligation to indemnify Visa USA for certain litigation unrelated to TCF. See page 26 under Management’s Discussion and Analysis for details of TCF’s contingent obligation to indemnify Visa USA for certain litigation. Merchants are also seeking to develop independent card products or payment systems that would serve as alternatives to TCF Visa card products. The continued success of TCF’s various card programs is dependent on the success and viability of Visa and the continued use by customers and acceptance by merchants of its cards. New Branch Expansion The success of TCF’s branch expansion is dependent on the continued success of branch banking in attracting new customers and business. Many other financial institutions are also opening new branches, and the competition from them and other retailers for adequate new branch sites is significant. Supermarket Branches The success of TCF’s supermarket branch expansion is dependent on the continued long-term success and viability of TCF’s supermarket partners and TCF’s ability to maintain licenses or lease agreements for its supermarket locations. In the third quarter of 2008, TCF entered into agreements with SUPERVALU INC. to extend the terms of master and license agreements for its supermarket branches in Minnesota, Illinois, Wisconsin and Indiana to December 31, 2018. At December 31, 2008, TCF had 236 supermarket branches. Supermarket banking continues to play an important role in TCF’s growth, as these branches have been consistent generators of account growth and deposits. TCF is subject to the risk, among others, that its license or lease for a location or locations will terminate upon the sale or closure of that location or locations by the supermarket partner. Also, an economic slowdown, or financial or labor difficulties in the supermarket industry may reduce activity in TCF’s supermarket branches. 11 Leasing and Equipment Finance Activities TCF’s leasing and equipment finance activities are subject to the risk of cyclical downturns and other adverse economic developments. In an adverse economic environment, there may be a decline in the demand for some types of equipment which TCF leases and/or finances, resulting in a decline in the amount of new equipment being placed in service as well as the decline in equipment values for equipment previously placed in service. TCF, like all owners and lessors of commercial equipment, may also be exposed to liability claims resulting from injuries or accidents involving that equipment. TCF seeks to mitigate its overall exposure to lessor’s liability risk by requiring certain lessees to furnish evidence of liability insurance prior to lease inception and to maintain that insurance throughout the term of the lease and through its own insurance programs. Inventory Finance TCF has strategic and execution risk associated with starting the new inventory finance business as the ability to attract and retain manufacturers and dealers may not achieve expectations. The core operating risks of this business are similar to other existing TCF businesses. Income Taxes TCF is subject to federal and state income tax laws and regulations. Income tax regulations are often complex and require interpretation. Changes in income tax regulations could negatively impact TCF’s results of operations. If TCF’s Real Estate Investment Trust (“REIT”) affiliate fails to qualify as a REIT, or should states enact legislation taxing REITs or related entities, TCF’s tax expense would increase. The REIT and related companies must meet specific provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and state tax laws. Use of REITs is and has been the subject of federal and state audits, litigation with state taxing authorities and tax policy debates by various state legislatures. Additional unfavorable law changes or unfavorable audit results could increase TCF’s income taxes. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Consolidated Income Statement Analysis — Income Taxes” and Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Rules and Regulations New or revised tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, rules and standards could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations, and financial condition. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state laws and regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, and not necessarily to benefit a financial company’s shareholders. These laws and regulations may impose significant limitations on operations. These limitations, and sources of potential liability for the violation of such laws and regulations, are described in “Regulation.” These regulations, along with tax and accounting laws, regulations, rules and standards, have a significant impact on the ways that financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives, engage in tax planning and make financial disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules and standards are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. The nature, extent, and timing of the adoption of significant new laws, changes in existing laws, or repeal of existing laws may have a material impact on TCF’s business, results of operations, and financial condition, the effect of which is impossible to predict. Violations of these laws can result in enforcement actions which can impact operations. Future Legislative and Regulatory Change; Litigation and Enforcement Activity There are a number of respects in which future legislative or regulatory change, or changes in enforcement practices or court rulings, could adversely affect TCF, and it is generally not possible to predict when or if such changes may have an impact on TCF. TCF’s income in future periods may be negatively impacted by pending state and federal legislative proposals which, if enacted, could limit interest rates or loan, deposit or other fees and service charges. Financial institutions have also increasingly been the subject of class action lawsuits or in some cases regulatory actions challenging a variety of practices involving consumer lending and retail deposit-taking activity. The Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) and fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful challenge to an institution’s performance under the CRA or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity, and 12 restrictions on expansion activity. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution’s performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. USA Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts The USA Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines and/or sanctions. In recent years, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. Although TCF has developed policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance, regulators may take enforcement action against TCF in the event of noncompliance. Disruption to Infrastructure The extended disruption of vital infrastructure could negatively impact TCF’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. TCF’s operations depend upon, among other things, its technological and physical infrastructure, including its equipment and facilities. Extended disruption of its vital infrastructure by fire, power loss, natural disaster, telecommunications failure, computer hacking and viruses, terrorist activity or the domestic and foreign response to such activity, or other events outside of TCF’s control, could have a material adverse impact either on the financial services industry as a whole, or on TCF’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. Estimates and Assumptions TCF’s consolidated financial statements conform with generally accepted accounting principles, which require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. These estimates are based on information available to management at the time the estimates are made. Actual results could differ from those estimates. For further information relating to critical accounting estimates, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 