Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not currently know about or currently believe are immaterial, or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry, are not specifically identified below, but may nevertheless adversely affect our business. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or future results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our business could be materially adversely affected if we were unable to continue selling policies in key states. Historically, our business has been concentrated in a few key states. During 2006 and 2005, approximately 40% and 41%, respectively, of our direct premium revenue came from sales of policies in California, Florida and Pennsylvania. Although, we have recommenced new policy sales in 44 states, including California, Florida and Pennsylvania, we have not yet recommenced new policy sales in six other states. We are working with the remaining states to recommence sales in all jurisdictions. We have agreed to conditions for the recommencement of business in California, Florida, Illinois, Ohio and Pennsylvania. If we were found not to be in compliance with these conditions, we could be forced to stop new policy sales. Each state insurance department may impose its own conditions on our recommencing or continuing new policy sales in its state. If we are unable to continue selling new policies in our key states, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may not have enough statutory capital and surplus to continue to write business. Our continued ability to write business is dependent on maintaining adequate levels of statutory capital and surplus to support the policies we write. Our new business writing typically results in net losses on a statutory basis during the early years of a policy. The resulting reduction in statutory surplus, limits our ability to seek new business due to statutory restrictions on premium to surplus ratios and statutory surplus requirements. If we cannot generate sufficient statutory surplus to maintain minimum statutory requirements through increased statutory profitability, reinsurance or other capital generating alternatives, we will be limited in our ability to realize additional premium revenue from new business writing, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or, in the event that our statutory surplus is not sufficient to meet minimum premium to surplus and risk based capital ratios in any state, we could be prohibited from writing new policies in such state. We could suffer a loss if our premium rates are not adequate and we are unable to obtain necessary state approvals for premium rate increases. We set our premium rates based on assumptions about numerous variables, including our estimate of the probability of a policyholder making a claim, the severity and duration of such claim, the mortality rate of our policyholders, the persistency or renewal of our policies in-force, the expenses associated with administering our policies, and the amount of interest we expect to earn from the investment of premiums. In setting premium rates, we consider historical claims information, industry statistics and other factors. Based on our recent studies, we believe that the policies we currently sell are priced to provide a satisfactory profit margin. However, those studies also demonstrate that certain of our older policies are only marginally profitable and some are unprofitable. As a result, we commenced efforts to obtain premium rate increases on such polices, which includes policies that previously received a premium rate increase. If our actual experience proves to be less favorable than we assumed our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We generally cannot raise our premium rates in any state unless we first obtain the approval of the insurance regulator in that state. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain approval for premium rate increases from existing requests or requests filed in the future, especially in light of the magnitude of past premium rate increases and consumer 25 sentiment at the regulatory level. If we are unable to raise our premium rates because we fail to obtain approval for a premium rate increase in one or more states, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In 2005, we concluded a national class action settlement in which we were the defendant for past premium rate increases. As part of the settlement, many existing policyholders elected a contingent non-forfeiture benefit, which could entitle them to a paid-up benefit upon lapse following future premium rate increases that exceed certain age-dependent thresholds. While we release reserves to income for lapsing policyholders, the effect of the settlement could lead to higher than expected lapses, future benefit payments for non-premium paying policyholders and anti-selection of remaining policyholders. Anti-selection is the lapsation of policies held by healthier policyholders. Although we include an assumption for anti-selection in our policyholder reserves, anti-selection could cause our actual claims experience to exceed our expectations based on the higher risk of the remaining policyholders. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our failure to file periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) could result in enforcement action by the SEC or shareholder lawsuits. We have failed to file timely periodic reports since the third quarter of 2005. This could result in enforcement action by the SEC or shareholder lawsuits. If either of these were to happen, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We could be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange if this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not filed by April 2, 2007. We have been informed by the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) that we will be delisted if we do not file our Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2005 by April 2, 2007. If this were to happen, we expect our shares to trade in the “pink sheets,” which would not provide as robust a trading environment for our shareholders as the NYSE. In addition we are late filing our Form 10-K for 2006 and our Form 10-Qs for 2006. If we are unable file the 2006 documents within a time period that is agreeable to the NYSE we may be delisted. If our shares are delisted from the NYSE, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our reserves for current and future claims may be inadequate and any increase to such reserves could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We calculate and maintain reserves for current and future claims using assumptions about numerous variables, including our estimate of the probability of a policyholder making a claim, the severity and duration of such claim, the mortality rate of our policyholders, the persistency or renewal of our policies in-force and the amount of interest we expect to earn from the investment of premiums. The adequacy of our reserves depends on the accuracy of our assumptions. We cannot assure you that our actual experience will not differ from the assumptions used in the establishment of reserves. Any variance from these assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our unamortized deferred policy acquisition cost asset may not be fully recoverable, which would result in an impairment charge and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In connection with the sale of our insurance policies, we defer and amortize the policy acquisition costs over the related premium paying periods throughout the life of the policy. These costs include all expenses that are directly related to, and vary with, the acquisition of the policy, including commissions, underwriting and other policy issue expenses. The amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (“DAC”) is determined using the same persistency and discount rate assumptions utilized in computing policy reserves. We review the assumptions underlying DAC and our policy reserves on at least a quarterly basis to determine their continued adequacy given current observed trends and expectations. If, based on that review we determine that our DAC is not fully recoverable, we would impair the value of our DAC and would fully expense the impaired amount. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our investment performance may affect our financial results and ability to conduct business 26 Our funds are invested by professional investment management firms under the direction of our management team in accordance with investment guidelines approved by the Investment Committee of the Board of Directors. Although our investment guidelines stress diversification of risks and conservation of principal and liquidity, our investments are subject to market risks, as well as risks inherent to individual securities. Investment losses could significantly decrease our book value, thereby affecting our ability to conduct business. We do not match the duration of assets and liabilities, which could subject us to interest rate risk from the investment of new cash flows that are inadequate to meet our future claims payments. In addition, we are limited by the Corrective Action Plan with the Pennsylvania Insurance Department as to the types of new investments that we may purchase. We are also limited by our statutory surplus in terms of the level of realized loss we can incur in order to sell existing assets and purchase new investments. This could, and has, limited our ability to realign the duration of our investment portfolio and to maximize our investment yield. Our future earnings could be limited as a result of these limitations. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our operating results are affected by the performance of our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio contains fixed income investments and may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Volatility in interest rates could also have an adverse effect on our investment income and operating results. For example, if interest rates decline, funds reinvested will earn less than the maturing investment. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including monetary and fiscal policies and domestic and international political conditions. Although we take measures to manage the risks of investing in changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to effectively mitigate interest rate sensitivity. Our mitigation efforts include maintaining a high quality portfolio to reduce the effect of interest rate changes on book value. A significant increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our book value. The Office of the Chief Accountant of the Securities and Exchange Commission may not agree with our proposed accounting treatment for future benefit reserves which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In October of 2006, we made a written submission with the Office of the Chief Accountant of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) seeking the SEC’s confirmation that the proposed accounting treatment for prospective unlocking of our liability for future policy benefits and unamortized deferred acquisition costs is in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). As of the time of the filing of this Form 10-K, we still have not received confirmation from the SEC. In order to receive confirmation we will need to provide additional information to the SEC. We have temporarily stopped pursuing a ruling from the SEC while we complete this Form 10-K, but plan on continuing this process after the Form 10-K is filed. This Form 10-K is being filed under the same accounting methodology utilized prior to seeking the confirmation from the SEC. In reviewing our submission, if the SEC does not confirm that our proposed accounting treatment is in accordance with GAAP, or if in their review, the SEC disagrees that our historical accounting policy is in accordance with GAAP, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and could also result in restatements of this Form 10-K and previously filed Form 10-Ks and 10-Qs. The value or the embedded earnings of our in-force business will not change. The final accounting treatment that we employ after we have completed the review with the SEC will only affect the timing of the emergence of the earnings. Our reinsurance agreement with Imagine International Reinsurance Limited is subject to an aggregate limit of liability, which, if exceeded, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our reinsurance agreement with Imagine International Reinsurance Limited is subject to certain coverage limitations and an aggregate limit of liability. The aggregate limit of liability may be reduced if we are unable to obtain premium rate increases deemed necessary under the provisions of the agreement and if certain other events occur. If the aggregate limit of liability is expected to be exceeded in the future, we would establish a contingent deficiency reserve for the expected shortfall, resulting in the reduction of our statutory surplus. 27 Our reinsurance agreement also limits the amount of security to be provided by the reinsurer in order for us to gain full statutory credit for the cession of our reserves. This security is generally in the form of a letter of credit issued for our benefit. The limit of this letter of credit cannot exceed $100 million plus the aggregate of all expense and risk charges paid to the reinsurer since inception of the agreement. If our letter of credit requirements exceeded this limit, our ability to take full credit for the ceded reserves would be limited. In the event that (1) the reinsurer’s limit of liability is reduced or exceeded, (2) the reinsurance agreement is cancelled due to lack of premium payments, (3) the reinsurer is not able to satisfy its obligations to us or (4) we breach the Plan, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may have insufficient capital and surplus to commute our reinsurance agreement with Imagine International Reinsurance Limited, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are entitled to commute (i.e., recapture the statutory reserve liabilities on the underlying policies) our reinsurance agreement with Imagine International Reinsurance Limited on January 1, 2008 or any January 1 thereafter. To be able to do so, we would be required to have amounts of statutory capital and surplus which would support recapturing the statutory liability for such policies. We do not currently have enough statutory capital and surplus to do so. While we believe, based upon our most recent projections and modeling, that it is probable that our business will be sufficiently profitable in the future such that we will have a sufficient amount of statutory capital and surplus to do so by January 1, 2009 or that viable alternatives, such as modification to the current reinsurance agreement, new reinsurance opportunities or additional capital issuances, are available to enable us to commute the agreement, there is no assurance that we will be able to commute the reinsurance agreements. If we are unable to commute the agreement by January 1, 2009 it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our reinsurers may not satisfy their obligations to us, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We obtain reinsurance from unaffiliated reinsurers, in addition to Imagine International Reinsurance Limited, on certain of our policies. Although each reinsurer is liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred to such reinsurer, reinsurance does not relieve us of liability to our policyholders. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to all of our reinsurers. We cannot assure you that our reinsurers will pay all of our reinsurance claims or that they will pay our reinsurance claims on a timely basis. The failure of our reinsurers to make such payments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified, experienced personnel. We have in the past experienced, and we expect to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. Because long-term care insurance is a very specialized segment of the insurance industry, we face significant competition in recruiting talented personnel. The location of our corporate offices outside of a major metropolitan area also makes it difficult to recruit personnel. We might not be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. Failure to recruit new personnel or failure to retain our current personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations because it could impact our ability to complete actuarial and financial analyses in a timely manner. Our business could be materially adversely affected if our insurance industry ratings are downgraded; we may not be able to compete successfully with insurers that have greater financial resources or better financial strength ratings. We sell our products in highly competitive markets. We compete with large national insurers, smaller regional insurers and specialty insurers. Many insurers are larger than we are and many have greater resources and better financial strength ratings than we do. Most insurers also have not experienced the regulatory problems we have faced. In addition, we are subject to competition from insurers with broader product lines. We also may be subject, from time to time, to new competition resulting from changes in Medicare benefits, as well as from insurance carriers introducing products similar to those offered by us. 28 The financial strength ratings assigned to our insurance company subsidiaries by A.M. Best Company, Inc. and Standard & Poor’s Insurance Rating Services, two independent insurance industry rating agencies, affect our ability to expand and to attract new business. A.M. Best’s ratings for the industry range from “A++ (superior)” to “F (in liquidation).” Standard & Poor’s ratings range from “AAA (extremely strong)” to “CC (extremely weak).” A.M. Best and Standard & Poor’s insurance company ratings are based upon factors of concern to policyholders and insurance agents and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Our subsidiaries that are rated have A.M. Best ratings of “B” and Standard & Poor’s ratings of “B”. In July, 2006, both A.M. Best and Standard & Poor’s assigned our ratings to “credit watch, with negative outlook” pending the filing and review of this Form 10-K. We believe that a downgrade of either of these ratings would have an adverse effect upon our ability to sell new policies, including, but not limited to, the potential for certain key states (including Florida) to suspend our ability to write new business in those states, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain distributors will not sell our products unless we have a more favorable financial strength rating. Similarly, certain prospective customers may decline to purchase new policies because of a perceived risk of non-payment of policy benefits due to our financial condition. Our inability to achieve improved ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If demand for long-term care insurance continues to decline, we will not be able to execute our strategy of strengthening our position as a leading provider of long-term care insurance. We have devoted significant resources to developing our long-term care insurance business, and our growth strategy relies upon continued growth of the sale of this product. In recent years, however, industry sales of individual long-term care insurance have declined. Annualized first-year premiums for individual long-term care insurance achieved a historical high in 2002 at approximately $1.0 billion but have decreased to $608 million in 2006, according to LIMRA International. We believe this decrease was due primarily to decisions by several providers to cease offering long-term care insurance, to raise premiums on in-force policies and/or to introduce new products with higher prices. These actions resulted in decreased purchases of long-term care insurance products and have caused some distributors to reduce their sales focus on these products. If the market for long-term care insurance continues to decline, we may be unable to realize our growth strategy and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may suffer reduced income if governmental authorities change the regulations applicable to the insurance industry. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive regulation by state insurance regulatory authorities. The laws of the various states establish insurance departments with broad powers with respect to such things as licensing companies to transact business, licensing agents, prescribing accounting principles and practices, admitting statutory assets, mandating certain insurance benefits, regulating premium rates, approving policy forms, regulating unfair trade, regulating market conduct and claims practices, establishing statutory reserve requirements and solvency standards, limiting dividends, restricting certain transactions between affiliates and regulating the types, amounts and statutory valuation of investments. The primary purpose of such regulation is to protect policyholders, not shareholders. State legislatures, state insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, and may impose changes in the future that materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and could make it difficult or financially impracticable to continue doing business. Some states limit premium rate increases on long-term care insurance products and other states have considered doing so. Because insurance premiums are our primary source of income, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected by any of these changes. Certain legislative proposals could, if enacted or if further refined, adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. These include the implementation of minimum consumer protection standards for inclusion in all long-term care policies, including: guaranteed premium rates; protection against inflation; limitations on waiting periods for pre-existing conditions; setting standards for sales practices for long-term care insurance; and guaranteed consumer access to information about insurers, including lapse and replacement rates for policies and the percentage of claims denied. In addition, recent Federal financial services legislation requires states to adopt laws for the protection of consumer privacy. Compliance with various existing and pending privacy requirements also could result in significant additional costs to us. 29 We may not be able to compete successfully if we cannot recruit and retain insurance agents. We distribute our products principally through independent agents that we recruit and train to market and sell our products. We also engage FMOs to recruit independent agents and develop networks of agents in various states. We compete vigorously with other insurance companies for productive independent agents, primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services, compensation and product features. When we ceased new policy sales in 2001, many of our agents began selling more long-term care insurance products issued by our competitors. We may not be able to attract (or in the case of agents who have begun writing long-term care products for our competitors, to re-engage) and retain independent agents to sell our products, including if we are unable to obtain permission to recommence new policy sales in the six states where we are currently not permitted to offer new policies. Because our future profitability depends greatly on new policy sales, our business and ability to compete would suffer if we are unable to recruit and retain insurance agents or if we lost the services provided by our FMOs. Litigation may result in financial losses or harm our reputation and may divert management resources. Current and future litigation may result in financial losses, harm our reputation and require the dedication of significant management resources. We are regularly involved in litigation. The litigation naming us as a defendant ordinarily involves our activities as an insurer. In recent years, many insurance companies, including us, have been named as defendants in class actions relating to market conduct issues, sales practices, and premium rate increases. See Item 3 – “Legal Proceedings” for a description of current legal proceedings. Significant litigation could materially adversely affect our financial condition due to defense costs, settlements or adverse decisions. Our computer systems may fail or their security may be compromised, which could damage our business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is highly dependent upon the uninterrupted operation of our computer systems. We rely on these systems throughout our business for a variety of functions, including processing claims and applications, providing information to customers and distributors, performing actuarial analyses and maintaining financial records. Despite the implementation of security measures, our computer systems may be vulnerable to physical or electronic intrusions, computer viruses or other attacks, programming errors and similar disruptive problems. The failure of these systems for any reason could cause significant interruptions to our operations, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We retain confidential information in our computer systems, and we rely on sophisticated commercial technologies to maintain the security of those systems. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures and penetrate our computer systems could access, view, misappropriate, alter, or delete any information in the systems, including personally identifiable customer information and proprietary business information. In addition, an increasing number of states and foreign countries require that customers be notified if a security breach results in the disclosure of personally identifiable customer information could damage our reputation in the marketplace, deter people from purchasing our products, subject us to significant civil and criminal liability and require us to incur significant technical, legal and other expenses. Certain anti-takeover provisions in state law and our Articles of Incorporation may make it more difficult to acquire us and thus may depress the market price of our common stock. Our Restated and Amended Articles of Incorporation, the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law of 1988, as amended, and the insurance laws of states in which our insurance subsidiaries do business contain certain provisions which could delay or impede the removal of incumbent directors and could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us difficult, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our shareholders, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. In particular, the classification and three-year terms of our directors could have the effect of delaying a 30 change in control. Insurance laws and regulations of Pennsylvania, New York and Florida, our insurance subsidiaries’ states of domicile, prohibit any person from acquiring control of us, and thus indirect control of our insurance subsidiaries, without the prior approval of the insurance commissioners of those states. The exercise of our outstanding stock options and any future issuances of new shares of our common stock may result in significant dilution to our existing shareholders. We anticipate that to finance the growth of our business adequately and to support our liquidity needs, we may offer and sell additional shares of common stock or convertible debt in private or public offerings in the future. The occurrence of any or all of the foregoing may result in significant additional dilution to our existing shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 