Risk Factors Among the factors that could materially adversely affect the business, financial condition or results of operations of Provena Foods Inc. (the “Company”) are the following: Workers’ Compensation Claims. Beginning in 2003, the annual cost of being fully insured against workers’ compensation claims became prohibitive. To reduce costs, the Company elected to purchase modified workers’ compensation insurance under which the insurance company administers the claims and the Company bears the total cost of the claims. Under the modified insurance, each year the Company records as workers’ compensation expense an estimate of the future cost of settling claims for that year. The Company remains at risk that the cost of settlement of all claims for any year in which the Company had modified insurance may materially exceed the Company’s estimate. See Workers’ Compensation below. Inability to Recover Costs of Sales. The Company operates two food divisions, the Swiss meat division and the Royal pasta division, each of which must maintain a level of sales adequate to absorb the fixed costs of large plant investments. Recently there have been increases in the costs of meat and flour, in production labor costs, in workers’ compensation costs, in utilities, and in health insurance costs. Both divisions have experienced material reductions in their gross profits resulting both from their inability to increase their selling prices sufficiently to recover these increased costs and from cost increases outpacing selling price increases. The inability to increase selling prices is caused by customer resistance to price increases and intense competition. Since the products of both divisions are ultimately sold to consumers, the divisions’ customers resist price increases which if passed on to consumers would reduce consumption of the ultimate products. Each division has a few large customers which account for a substantial portion of its sales. See Dependency on a Limited Number of Large Customers below. The principal constraint on Swiss’s pricing is the resistance of its customers, many of which are pizza chains, to price increases. The principal constraint on Royal is intense competition in an industry with excess capacity which has experienced a decrease in demand. Raising prices to increase gross profits risks losing customers, having sales fall to a level inadequate to absorb fixed costs and failing to make substantial sales at the higher prices. General The Company is a California-based specialty food processor engaged in the supply of food products to other food processors, distributors and canners. Its primary products are pepperoni and Italian-style sausage sold to frozen pizza processors, pizza restaurant chains and food distributors and dry pasta sold to food processors and canners, private label producers and food distributors. The Company’s products are sold throughout the United States but primarily in the Western United States. The Company’s meat processing business is conducted through the Swiss American Sausage Co. Division (“Swiss American” or “Swiss”), and its pasta business is conducted through the Royal-Angelus Macaroni Company Division (“Royal-Angelus” or “Royal”). The Company acquired its present businesses between 1972 and 1975. The predecessor of Swiss was founded in 1922 and the two predecessors to Royal, Royal Macaroni Company and Angelus Macaroni Mfg. Co., were founded in 1878 and 1946, respectively. The Company was incorporated in 1972 in California with an initial capitalization of approximately $12,000. The Company’s competitive strategy is to emphasize providing products of predictable quality and consistency at competitive prices as well as prompt and reliable service. The Company attempts to establish, refine and maintain procedures to assure that the Company’s products comply with its customers’ specifications and are delivered in a manner that will satisfy their delivery and production requirements. For financial information about each of the Company’s two divisions, see the segment data contained in Note 11 of Notes to Financial Statements. -1- Table of Contents Swiss American Sausage Co. Meat Division During the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, sales by Swiss accounted for 85.91% and 87.15%, respectively, of the Company’s net sales. Swiss’s slightly lower proportion of Company sales in 2005 resulted from sales at Swiss increasing proportionately less than sales at Royal. The Company’s processed meat products are sold primarily to pizza restaurant chains, pizza processors and food service distributors. Pizza processors produce prepared pizza which is sold primarily as frozen pizza in food markets. Food service distributors supply food to delicatessens, restaurants and other retail businesses offering prepared food. The Company’s meat products are sold nationally, but most of its sales are made to customers located in the Western United States. The Company does not have supply agreements with its major customers, many of whom purchase some of their meat products from other suppliers. Swiss competes with numerous producers of processed meats, many of which are larger and have greater financial resources than the Company. Swiss’s competitors include large national meat packers such as Hormel Foods Corporation, as well as smaller regional meat processors. Pizza processors that manufacture their own meat products diminish the market for Swiss’s products. The Company competes in the meat processing business by emphasizing predictable quality and consistency. The meat processing activities of the Company are conducted at its meat plant in Lathrop, California. The meat plant has an estimated theoretical production capacity of 46,000,000 pounds per year. The Company also owns 2 acres of land adjacent to the plant to ensure a capability of expansion. See Item 2. Properties. The meat processing activities of Swiss are typified by its processing of pepperoni, its principal product, which consists of the following steps: (i) the purchase of beef and pork trimmings with a guaranteed lean content; (ii) the blending of the meat into the Company’s meat product while carefully controlling the consistency and content of the product; (iii) the addition of spices and preservatives to the product; (iv) the extrusion of the product into sausage casings; (v) the oven cooking of the product in the casings; and (vi) the drying of the cooked product. Throughout the production process, the Company subjects its meat products to quality control inspection for the purposes of satisfying U.S. Department of Agriculture regulations, meeting customer specifications and assuring a consistent quality of the products to the Company’s customers. In addition to pepperoni and sausage, the Company processes moderate amounts of other meat products, including meatballs, breaded meat patties and crumbles. Crumbles are quick-frozen nuggets of a pre-cooked meat product, such as the sausage on a sausage pizza. The crumbles line extrudes the ground and blended ingredients into nuggets which are cooked and quick-frozen in one continuous operation. Breaded meat patties are produced on a line added in 2002, which forms, breads and cooks the patties. Royal-Angelus Macaroni Company Pasta Division During the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, sales by Royal-Angelus accounted for 14.09% and 12.85%, respectively, of the Company’s net sales. Royal’s higher proportion of Company sales in 2005 resulted from sales at Royal increasing proportionately more than sales at Swiss. The Company sells its pasta products primarily to food processors and canners, private label customers, food service distributors, and specialty food distributors. Royal’s food processor and canner customers use the Company’s pasta to produce retail products in which pasta is an ingredient, such as pasta salads, soups and entrees. Royal’s private label customers are regional and national food suppliers that sell pasta under their own labels, purchased in bulk from the Company or packaged by the Company. Royal’s food service distributor customers supply pasta to restaurants, institutional purchasers, and some retail establishments. The Company also sells its pasta products to government agencies, the military, schools and other pasta manufacturers. The Company’s pasta products are produced at its plant in Chino, California. The plant comprises two leased buildings, one occupied 100% by the Company and a second currently occupied 40% by the Company and subleased 60% to a tenant through March 2007. The pasta plant has a theoretical production capacity estimated at 50,000,000 pounds per year. In the basic pasta production process, durum semolina flour is mixed with water and the mixture is extruded into one of many shapes, cut to the proper length, dried, packaged and shipped to the Company’s customers. If required by the particular variety of pasta, a different flour is used or flour is blended with egg powder, vegetable powder or other ingredients before the water is added. No preservatives are used in making pasta. Royal-Angelus competes with several national and regional pasta manufacturers, many of which have greater financial resources than the Company. The Company competes in the pasta business by emphasizing predictable quality and consistency and by its capability of producing a larger variety of pastas with shorter lead times and production runs than most of its larger competitors. -2- Table of Contents Suppliers The primary ingredients used by the Company in processed meat products are beef, pork, spices and casings and in pasta products are flour, egg powder and vegetable powder. The ingredients are purchased from suppliers at prevailing market prices. The Company has not recently experienced any shortages in the supply of ingredients and generally expects the ingredients to continue to be available for the foreseeable future. Patents, Trademarks and Licenses The Company owns no patents. It owns the United States registered trademarks “Royal” with the crown design, “Vegeroni” and “Fortune” for use on pasta products and licenses from the Del Monte Company until 2009 the United States registered trademark “Capo di Monte” for use on meat products. Registrations of the trademarks owned by the Company must be and are renewed from time to time. These trademarks are used primarily on products intended for processors and restaurant chains rather than consumers. No substantial portion of the Company’s sales is dependent upon any Company trademark. Commodity Price Fluctuations and Availability The Company contracts to sell its products at a fixed price for production and delivery in the future (generally four to six months or less). The Company is, therefore, subject to the risk of price fluctuations with respect to its product ingredients from the time the Company contracts with its customers until the time the Company purchases the commodities used to fill the orders. Prices for meat and flour, the Company’s major product ingredients, fluctuate widely based upon supply, market speculation, governmental trade and agricultural policies, and other unpredictable factors. The Company is able to contract at fixed prices for delivery of domestic beef and pork up to 30 days in advance, imported beef and sometimes pork up to 90 days in advance, and flour up to 90 days or more in advance. The Company generally covers its committed sales by purchasing commodities at fixed prices for future delivery, but is subject to the risk of commodity price fluctuations when it contracts for sales beyond the period it can cover or when it orders commodities in anticipation of sales. Effects of Inflation It is the Company’s general policy, subject to current competitive conditions, to pass on increases in costs of commodities used in production by increasing prices of the products it sells to its customers. However, because the Company agrees on the price of its products to its customers in advance of purchasing the product ingredients, there may be a delay in passing on increasing commodity costs to customers, temporarily decreasing profit margins. Competitive conditions may limit the Company’s ability to pass on commodity price increases to its customers, prolonging or increasing the adverse effect on profit margins. Marketing and Distribution The Company’s processed meat and pasta products have been marketed primarily by the Company’s management personnel, food brokers, and two full-time salaried sales people. Because the Company sells most of its processed meat and pasta products to customers who either further process the products before they reach the consumer or sell the products under private labels, the Company does not advertise its products in a manner designed to reach the ultimate consumer. Dependency on a Limited Number of Large Customers A substantial portion of the Company’s net sales has in recent years resulted from sales to a few customers. See Note 11 of Notes to Financial Statements. The Company does not enter into continuing sales contracts with its customers, and has different major customers from time to time. The following table shows, by division and for the Company, the percentage of sales represented by the Company’s largest customers for the year ended December 31, 2005: Division Number ofCustomers DivisionSales % CompanySales % Swiss American 3 53 % 46 % Royal-Angelus 3 27 % 4 % Totals 6 50 % -3- Table of Contents The Company fills orders as they are received from its customers, normally within a few weeks or less, and does not have a meaningful backlog of orders for its products. The Company carries significant inventories of its products for only a few major customers, and does not provide extended payment terms to customers. Food Industry Risks The business of the Company is subject to the risks inherent in the food industry, including the risk that a food product or ingredient may be banned or its use limited or declared unhealthful, that product tampering or contamination will require a recall or reduce sales of a product, or that a product’s acceptability will diminish because of generally perceived health concerns or changes in consumer tastes. Employees As of December 31, 2005, the Company employed 248 full-time employees, 181 in production at Swiss in Lathrop, California, 49 in production at Royal-Angelus in Chino, California, 10 in clerical and office functions, 3 in sales activities, and 5 in management activities. Swiss’s plant employees are represented by the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local 588, AFL-CIO, CLC under a collective bargaining agreement dated April 1, 2002 which expires April 2, 2006. Royal’s plant employees are represented by United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local 1428, AFL-CIO, CLC under a collective bargaining agreement dated October 2, 2002 which expires September 30, 2006. There has been no significant labor unrest at the division’s plants and the Company believes it has a satisfactory relationship with its employees. Health Benefits The Company provides health insurance benefits to all of its employees and their dependents. Its union and non-union employees are covered by a union-sponsored health insurance plan. Workers’ Compensation In 2002, the Company’s workers’ compensation cost was $710,277, and the Company was fully insured. Since 2002, the Company has purchased modified workers’ compensation insurance because the cost to be fully insured was prohibitive. Under the modified workers’ compensation insurance, the insurance company administers the claims for a fee and the Company bears the total costs of settling claims. The administrative fee was $609,012 for 2003, $704,460 for 2004 and $661,948 for 2005 and is $364,386 for 2006. In addition, the insurance company has required a cash deposit or a letter of credit in the amount of the insurance company’s estimate of the costs of settling claims, to ensure the Company’s payment of the costs. The amount is adjusted from time to time upward or downward as the estimate changes. The Company has deposited $864,814, $588,989 of which has been used to pay costs, for 2003 and has a $1,100,000 ($1,217,614 at December 31, 2005) letter of credit and cash deposits totalling $100,000 for 2004, 2005 and 2006. The Company purchased an insurance policy for $37,476 covering claims in excess of $1,171,119 for 2006. Wells Fargo Bank issued the $1,100,000 letter of credit and charges 1.5% per annum on the amount of the letter of credit. The Company’s workers’ compensation expense for each year under the modified insurance is the sum of the administrative fee, the costs of settling claims for the year and an estimate of the future costs of settling claims for the year, adjusted for any increase or decrease in the estimated future costs of settling claims for any prior year, but limited to $1,171,119 for 2006 under the insurance policy. -4- Table of Contents Regulation Food products purchased, processed and sold by the Company are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including the federal Meat Inspection Act and the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Since January 25, 1999, the Company has complied with the U. S. Department of Agriculture’s Hazardous and Analysis Critical Control Points Program which enables the Company to self-inspect its meat products and production conditions and techniques. As required by law, U.S. Department of Agriculture employees visit the Company’s plant to inspect meat products processed by the Company and to review the Company’s compliance with the program. The Company is also subject to various federal, state and local regulations regarding workplace health and safety, environmental protection, equal employment opportunity and other matters. The Company maintains quality control departments at both its Lathrop and Chino facilities for purposes of testing product ingredients and finished products to ensure the production of products of predictable quality and consistency, as well as compliance with applicable regulations and standards. 