Item 1A. Risk Factors Various risks and uncertainties may affect TCF’s business. Any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or TCF’s other SEC filings may have a material impact on TCF’s financial condition or results of operations. TCF’s earnings are significantly affected by general economic and political conditions. TCF’s operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the local markets in which TCF operates, the U.S. generally and abroad. Economic conditions have a significant impact on the demand for TCF’s products and services, as well as the ability of its customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans, the stability of its deposit funding sources and sales revenue at the end of contractual lease terms. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in securities markets, changes in housing market prices or other factors could impact economic conditions and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, adverse economic conditions may result in a decline in demand for some types of equipment that TCF leases or finances, which could result in a decline in the amount of new equipment being placed in service, as well as declines in equipment values for equipment already in service. Adverse economic conditions may also hinder TCF from expanding the inventory or auto finance businesses by limiting its ability to attract and retain manufacturers and dealers as expected. Any such difficulties in TCF’s equipment, inventory and auto finance businesses could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. TCF is subject to interest rate risk. TCF’s earnings and cash flows largely depend upon its net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond TCF’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest TCF receives on loans and other investments and the amount of interest TCF pays on deposits and other borrowings, but such changes could also affect: (i) TCF’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits; (ii) the fair value of TCF’s financial assets and liabilities; and (iii) the average duration of TCF’s interest-earning assets. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, then TCF’s 7 net interest income and earnings could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies, any substantial, unexpected and prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. An inability to obtain needed liquidity could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. TCF’s liquidity could be limited by an inability to access the capital markets or unforeseen outflows of cash, which could arise due to circumstances outside of its control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects TCF or third parties. TCF’s credit rating is important to its liquidity. A further reduction or anticipated reduction in TCF’s credit ratings could adversely affect the ability of TCF Bank and its subsidiaries to lend and its liquidity and competitive position, increase its borrowing costs, limit its access to the capital markets or trigger unfavorable contractual obligations. An inability to meet its funding needs on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. TCF Financial relies on dividends from TCF Bank for most of its liquidity. TCF Financial is a separate and distinct legal entity from its banking and other subsidiaries. A substantial portion of TCF Financial’s liquidity comes from dividends from TCF Bank. These dividends, which are limited by various federal and state regulations, are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on its preferred and common stock and to meet its other cash needs. In the event TCF Bank is unable to pay dividends to it, TCF Financial may not be able to pay dividends or other obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. Loss of customer deposits could increase TCF’s funding costs. TCF relies on bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding. TCF competes with banks and other financial institutions for deposits. If TCF’s competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, TCF’s funding costs may increase through either a loss of deposits or an increase in rates paid by TCF to avoid losing deposits. Increased funding costs could reduce TCF’s net interest margin and net interest income, which could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect TCF. TCF’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. TCF routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors regarding, any financial institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could lead to losses or defaults by TCF or a counterparty. Many of these transactions expose TCF to credit risk in the event of default of the counterparty or client. In addition, TCF’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by TCF cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial exposure. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. TCF relies on its systems and counterparties, and any failures could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. TCF settles funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses and consumers and receives funds from payment networks, consumers and other paying agents. TCF’s businesses depend on their ability to process, record and monitor a large number of complex transactions. If any of TCF’s financial, accounting or other data processing systems fail or if personal information of TCF’s customers or clients were mishandled or misused (whether by employees or counterparties), TCF could suffer regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial losses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, TCF may be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control, which may include, for example, computer viruses, electrical or telecommunications outages, natural disasters, terrorist acts or other damage to property or physical assets. Such disruptions may give rise to loss of services to customers and loss or liability to TCF. Any system failure could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. 8 TCF faces cyber-security and other external risks, including “denial of service,” “hacking” and “identity theft,” that could adversely affect TCF’s reputation and could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. TCF’s computer systems and network infrastructure present security risks, and could be susceptible to cyber-attacks, such as denial of service attacks, hacking, terrorist activities or identity theft. For example, in October 2012, a hacker group launched a denial of service attack against a number of large financial services institutions. Hacking and identity theft risks, in particular, could cause serious reputational harm. Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and TCF may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks. While TCF has not experienced a material cyber-security breach, TCF experiences periodic threats to its data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks, attempted unauthorized access of accounts, and attempts to disrupt our systems. TCF may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize these risks, could be held liable for, and could suffer reputational damage as a result of, any security breach or loss. The success of TCF’s supermarket branches depends on the continued long-term success and viability of TCF’s supermarket partners and TCF’s ability to maintain licenses or lease agreements for its supermarket locations. A significant financial decline or change in ownership involving one of TCF’s supermarket partners, including SUPERVALU Inc., which accounts for over 95% of TCF’s supermarket branches, could result in the loss of supermarket branches or could increase costs to operate the supermarket branches. At December 31, 2012, TCF had 228 supermarket branches. Supermarket banking continues to play an important role in TCF’s growth, as these branches have been consistent generators of account growth and deposits. TCF is subject to the risk, among others, that its license or lease for a location or locations will terminate upon the sale or closure of that location or locations by the supermarket partner, especially in light of SUPERVALU’s announcement on January 10, 2013 that it had entered into an agreement to sell several of its supermarket chains, including Jewel-Osco®; in which TCF has 157 branches. Also, continued difficult economic conditions, or financial or labor difficulties in the supermarket industry, may reduce activity in TCF’s supermarket branches. As a result, continued economic difficulties for SUPERVALU or any of TCF’s other supermarket partners, or uncertainties relating to the sale of the Jewel-Osco chain, could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. New lines of business or new products and services may subject TCF to additional risk. From time to time, TCF may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and new products or services, TCF may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of TCF’s system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business and new products or services could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. Increased competition in the already highly competitive financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is highly competitive and could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, as well as continued industry consolidation, which may increase in connection with current economic and market conditions. TCF competes with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit unions and investment companies. In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally only provided by banks. Some of TCF’s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints or lower cost structures. Also, the potential need to adapt to industry changes in information technology systems, on which TCF and the financial services industry generally highly depend, could present operational issues and require considerable capital spending. As a result, any increased competition in the already highly competitive financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. The allowance for loan and lease losses maintained by TCF may not be sufficient. All borrowers have the potential to default, and TCF’s remedies may not fully satisfy the obligations owed to TCF. TCF maintains an allowance for loan and lease losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan and lease losses charged to expense, which represents management’s best estimate of probable credit losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans and leases. The level of the allowance for loan and lease losses reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations, specific credit risks, loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, 9 political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates of current credit risks using qualitative and quantitative factors, each of which is subject to significant change. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors may require an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review TCF’s allowance for loan and lease losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses or the recognition of additional loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. An increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses would result in a decrease in net income, and possibly risk-based capital, and could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. TCF is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. TCF Financial, its subsidiary TCF Bank and certain indirect subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not stockholders. These regulations affect TCF’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of such statutes, regulations or policies, could affect TCF in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject TCF to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products it may offer or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Additionally, while TCF has policies and procedures designed to prevent violations of the extensive federal and state regulations it is subject to, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur, and failure to comply with these statutes, regulations or policies could result in sanctions against TCF by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and reputational damage, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Further, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the “Patriot Act”), the Bank Secrecy Act and similar laws require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent them from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in sanctions and possibly fines. In the past, several financial institutions have received sanctions and some have incurred large fines for non-compliance. On January 25, 2013, TCF entered into a settlement agreement with the OCC related to TCF’s past compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 (“BSA” or the “Bank Secrecy Act”), pursuant to which TCF agreed to pay a $10 million civil money penalty. Violations of these regulations could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. TCF’s earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. The policies of the Federal Reserve impact TCF significantly. The Federal Reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Its policies directly and indirectly influence the rate of interest earned on loans and paid on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits, and also affect the value of financial instruments that TCF holds. Those policies determine to a significant extent the cost of funds for lending and investing. Changes in those policies are beyond TCF’s control and are difficult to predict. Federal Reserve policies can also affect TCF’s borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. For example, a tightening of the money supply by the Federal Reserve could reduce the demand for a borrower’s products and services. This could adversely affect the borrower’s earnings and ability to repay its loan. As a result, changes to the fiscal and monetary policies by the Federal Reserve could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. Proposed and future legislative and regulatory initiatives may substantially increase compliance burdens, which could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. Future legislative and regulatory initiatives cannot be fully or accurately predicted. Such proposals may impose more stringent standards than currently applicable or anticipated with respect to capital and liquidity requirements for depository institutions. For example, Congress enacted the Dodd-Frank Act in July 2010. Uncertainty remains as to many aspects of its ultimate impact, which could have a material adverse effect on the financial services industry as a whole and, specifically, on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”), which has examination and enforcement authority over TCF Bank and its subsidiaries, and gave it broad rulemaking authority to administer and carry out the purposes and objectives of the federal consumer financial laws with respect to all financial institutions that offer financial products and services to consumers. The CFPB is authorized to make rules identifying and prohibiting acts or practices that are 10 unfair, deceptive or abusive in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service. The term “abusive” is new and untested, and TCF cannot predict how it will be enforced. Based on the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and anticipated implementing regulations, it is highly likely that banks and bank holding companies will be subject to significantly increased regulation and compliance obligations that expose TCF to noncompliance risk and consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. TCF’s framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and any resulting loss. TCF’s risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and any resulting loss. TCF has established processes intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which TCF is subject, including liquidity, credit, market, interest rate, operational, legal and compliance and reputational risk. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to TCF’s risk management strategies. There may exist, or develop in the future, risks that TCF has not appropriately anticipated or identified. Any future breakdowns in TCF’s risk management framework could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Failure to keep pace with technological change could adversely affect TCF’s business. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. TCF’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in its operations. Many of TCF’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. TCF may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. Financial institutions depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, TCF may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. TCF may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could cause TCF to enter into unfavorable transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. Failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. TCF’s success depends to a large extent upon its ability to attract and retain key personnel. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse impact on TCF’s business because of their skills, market knowledge, industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding a qualified replacement. Additionally, portions of TCF’s business are relationship driven, and many of its key personnel have extensive customer relationships. Loss of such key personnel to a competitor could result in the loss of some of TCF’s customers. As a result, a failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. TCF relies on other companies to provide key components of its business infrastructure. Third party vendors provide key components of TCF’s business infrastructure, such as internet connections, network access and transaction and other processing services. While TCF has selected these third party vendors carefully, it does not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of inadequate or interrupted service, could adversely affect TCF’s ability to deliver products and services to its customers and otherwise to conduct its business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense. TCF’s internal controls may be ineffective. Management regularly reviews and updates TCF’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of TCF’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. 11 Negative publicity could damage TCF’s reputation. Reputation risk, or the risk to earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in TCF’s business. Negative public opinion could adversely affect TCF’s ability to keep and attract employees and customers and expose it to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from TCF’s actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to such conduct. Because TCF conducts most of its businesses under the “TCF” brand, negative public opinion about one business could affect its other businesses. Acquisitions may disrupt TCF’s business and dilute stockholder value. TCF regularly evaluates merger and acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence activities related to possible transactions with banks or other financial institutions. As a result, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. TCF seeks merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar, have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services. Acquiring other banks, businesses or branches involves potential adverse impact to TCF’s results of operations and various other risks commonly associated with acquisitions, such as: difficulty in estimating the value of the target company; payment of a premium over book and market values that may dilute TCF’s tangible book value and earnings per share in the short- and long-term; potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; volatility in reported income as goodwill impairment losses could occur irregularly and in varying amounts; difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; inability to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence or other projected benefits; potential disruption to TCF’s business; potential diversion of TCF management’s time and attention; potential loss of key employees and customers of TCF or the target company; and potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing consumers to complete financial transactions through alternative methods that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have previously been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts, mutual funds or general-purpose reloadable prepaid cards. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the loss of lower-cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. Changes in accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how TCF reports its financial condition and results of operations. TCF’s accounting policies are fundamental to the understanding of its financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of TCF’s assets or liabilities and results of operations. Some of TCF’s accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because materially different amounts would be reported if different estimates or assumptions were used. If such estimates or assumptions underlying the financial statements are incorrect, TCF could experience material losses. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of those standards that govern the preparation of TCF’s financial statements. These changes are beyond TCF’s control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how TCF reports its financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, TCF could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, resulting in it restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. TCF is subject to examinations and challenges by tax authorities. TCF is subject to federal and state income tax regulations, which often require interpretation due to their complexity. Changes in income tax regulations or in how the regulations are interpreted could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s results of operations. In the normal course of business, TCF is routinely subject to examinations and challenges from federal and state taxing authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with investments TCF has made and the businesses in which it has engaged. Recently, federal and state taxing authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. These tax positions may relate to tax compliance, sales and use, franchise, gross receipts, payroll, property and income tax issues, including tax base, apportionment and tax credit planning. The challenges made by taxing authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions, or the allocation of income among 12 tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in TCF’s favor, they could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, if TCF’s Real Estate Investment Trust (“REIT”) affiliate fails to qualify as a REIT, or if states enact legislation taxing REITs or related entities, TCF’s tax expense would increase. TCF’s REIT and related companies must meet specific provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and state tax laws. Use of REITs is and has been the subject of federal and state audits, litigation with state taxing authorities and tax policy debates by various state legislatures. Significant legal actions could subject TCF to substantial uninsured liabilities. TCF is subject to various claims related to its operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by its regulators, could involve large monetary claims or penalties, as well as significant defense costs. To protect itself from the cost of these claims, TCF maintains insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that it believes are appropriate for its operations. However, TCF’s insurance coverage only covers certain types of liability, and such insurance may not continue to be available to TCF at a reasonable cost, or at all. As a result, TCF may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, customers may make claims and take legal action pertaining to the performance by TCF of its fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the performance of TCF’s fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, such claims and legal actions may result in significant financial liability and could adversely affect the market perception of TCF and its products and services, as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputational damage could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. TCF is subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of TCF’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. In the ordinary course of business, TCF may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, TCF may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require TCF to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit TCF’s ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase TCF’s exposure to environmental liability. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 