Item 1A. Risk Factors Enterprise Risk Management In the normal course of business, TCF is exposed to various risks. Management balances the Company’s strategic goals, including revenue and profitability objectives, with the associated risks. In defining the Company’s risk profile, management organizes risks into three main categories: Credit Risk, Market Risk (which includes interest-rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and price risk) and Operational Risk (which includes transaction risk and compliance risk). Policies, systems and procedures have been adopted which are intended to identify, assess, control, monitor, and manage risk in each of these areas. TCF appointed a dedicated Chief Risk Officer (“CRO”) in 2010 to further enhance its enterprise risk management governance process. The CRO is a senior executive, reporting directly to both the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Audit Committee Chairman. The CRO has primary responsibility for enterprise wide risk management and Integrated Risk Control Services (formerly referred to as Internal Audit) department across all lines of business at TCF. Additionally, the heads of the various business lines within the company are responsible for identifying the most significant risks in their respective areas. Risk officers are assigned to key business units. The risk officers, while reporting directly to their respective line of business, facilitate implementation of the enterprise risk management and governance process. Each business line within the Company maintains policies, systems and procedures which are intended to identify, assess, control, monitor, and manage risk within each area. Management continually reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of these policies, systems and procedures. An Enterprise Risk Management Committee consisting of senior executives within the Company supports the CRO. As an integral part of the risk management process, management has established various committees consisting of senior executives and others within the Company. The purpose of these committees is to closely monitor risks and ensure that adequate risk management practices exist within their respective areas of authority. Some of the principal committees include the Credit Policy Committee, Concentration Credit Risk Management Committee, Asset/Liability Management Committee (“ALCO”), Investment Committee, Capital Planning Committee and various financial reporting and compliance-related committees. Overlapping membership of these committees helps provide a unified view of risk on an enterprise-wide basis. The Board of Directors, through its Audit Committee, has overall responsibility for oversight of the Company’s enterprise risk management governance process. Credit Risk Management Credit risk is defined as the risk to earnings or capital if an obligor fails to meet the terms of any contract with the Company or otherwise fails to perform as agreed. This includes failure of customers and counterparties to meet their contractual obligations, and contingent exposures from unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit. Credit risk also includes failure of a 8 counterparty to settle a securities transaction on agreed-upon terms (such as the counterparty in a repurchase transaction) or failure of an issuer in connection with mortgage-backed securities held in the Company’s securities available for sale portfolio. TCF has a Concentration Credit Risk Management Committee that meets regularly and is responsible for monitoring the loan and lease portfolio composition and risk tolerance within the various segments of the portfolio. The Concentration Credit Risk Management Committee and the Board of Directors have adopted a Concentration Policy to direct management of the Company’s concentration risk. To manage credit risk arising from lending and leasing activities, management has adopted and maintains underwriting policies and procedures, and periodically reviews the appropriateness of these policies and procedures. Customers and guarantors or recourse providers are evaluated as part of the initial underwriting processes and through periodic reviews. For consumer loans, credit scoring models are used to help determine eligibility for credit and terms of credit. These models are periodically reviewed to verify they are predictive of borrower performance. Limits are established on the exposure to a single customer (including their affiliates) and on concentrations for certain categories of customers. Loan and lease credit approval levels are established so that larger credit exposures receive managerial review at the appropriate level through various credit committees. Management continuously monitors asset quality in order to manage the Company’s credit risk and to determine the appropriateness of valuation allowances. This includes, in the case of commercial loans and leases, a risk rating methodology under which a rating (1 through 9) is assigned to every loan and lease. The rating reflects management’s assessment of the level of the customer’s financial and operational condition which may impact repayment. Asset quality is monitored separately based on the type or category of loan or lease. This allows management to better define the Company’s loan and lease portfolio risk profile. Management also uses various risk models to estimate probable impact on payment performance under various expected or unexpected scenarios. If the weak economic conditions continue to prevail throughout 2011 and beyond, credit risk will continue to be elevated. A weakening economy, increasing unemployment or further deterioration of housing markets could result in increased credit losses. The Company manages securities transaction risk by monitoring all unsettled transactions. All counterparties and transaction limits are reviewed and approved annually by both ALCO and the Company’s senior credit committee. To further manage credit risk in the securities portfolio, over 99% of the securities held in the securities available for sale portfolio are issued and guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae. Market Risk Management (Including Interest-Rate Risk and Liquidity Risk) Market risk is defined as the potential for losses arising from changes in interest rates, equity prices, and other relevant market rates or prices, and includes interest-rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and price risk. Interest-rate risk and liquidity risk are the Company’s primary market risks. Interest-Rate Risk Interest-rate risk is defined as the exposure of net interest income and fair value of financial instruments (interest-earning assets, deposits and borrowings) to adverse movements in interest rates. Interest-rate risk arises mainly from the structure of the balance sheet. The primary goal of interest-rate risk management is to control exposure to changes in market interest-rates within acceptable tolerances established by ALCO and the Board of Directors. The major sources of the Company’s interest-rate risk are timing differences in the maturity and repricing characteristics of assets and liabilities, changes in the shape of the yield curve, changes in customer behavior and changes in relationships between rate indices (basis risk). Management measures these risks and their impact in various ways, including use of simulation analyses and valuation analyses. Simulation analyses are used to model net interest income from asset and liability positions over a specified time period (generally one and two years), and the sensitivity of net interest income under various interest rate scenarios. The interest rate scenarios may include gradual or rapid changes in interest rates, spread narrowing and widening, yield curve twists, and changes in assumptions about customer behavior in various interest rate scenarios. The simulation analyses are based on various key assumptions which relate to the behavior of interest rates and spreads, changes in product balances, the repricing characteristics of products, and the behavior of loan and deposit customers in different rate environments. The simulation analyses do not necessarily take into account all actions management may undertake in response to anticipated changes in interest rates. 9 In addition to valuation analyses, management utilizes an interest rate gap measure (difference between interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities repricing within a given period). While the interest rate gap measurement has some limitations, including no assumptions regarding future asset or liability production and a static interest rate assumption, the interest rate gap represents the net asset or liability sensitivity at a point in time. An interest rate gap measure could be significantly affected by external factors such as loan prepayments, early withdrawals of deposits, changes in the correlation of various interest-bearing instruments, competition or a rise or decline in interest rates. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for further information about TCF’s interest-rate risk, gap analysis and simulation analyses. Management also uses valuation analyses to measure risk in the balance sheet that might not be taken into account in the net interest income simulation analyses. Net interest income simulation highlights exposure over a relatively short time period (12 or 24 months), and valuation analysis incorporates all cash flows over the estimated remaining life of all balance sheet positions. The valuation of the balance sheet, at a point in time, is defined as the discounted present value of asset cash flows minus the discounted value of liability cash flows. Valuation analysis addresses only the current balance sheet and does not incorporate the growth assumptions that are used in the net interest income simulation model. As with the net interest income simulation model, valuation analysis is based on key assumptions about the timing and variability of balance sheet cash flows and does not take into account actions management may undertake in response to anticipated changes in interest rates. ALCO meets regularly and is responsible for reviewing the Company’s interest rate sensitivity position and establishing policies to monitor and limit exposure to interest-rate risk. Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is defined as the risk to earnings or capital arising from the Company’s inability to meet its obligations when they come due without incurring unacceptable losses. ALCO and the Board of Directors have adopted a Liquidity Management Policy to direct management of the Company’s liquidity risk. The objective of the liquidity management policy is to ensure that TCF meets its cash and collateral obligations promptly, in a cost-effective manner and with the highest degree of reliability. The maintenance of adequate levels of asset and liability liquidity will provide TCF with the ability to meet both expected and unexpected cash flows and collateral needs. Key liquidity ratios, level of asset liquidity, and the amount available from available funding sources are reported to ALCO on a monthly basis. At year end, TCF’s Liquidity Management Policy and current operating practices established a minimum on-balance sheet asset liquidity target of $350 million, a maximum unsecured short-term daily borrowing limit of $225 million, and collateral pledged at the Federal Reserve Discount Window having a borrowing capacity of $500 million. TCF’s asset liquidity may be held in the form of on-balance sheet cash invested with the Federal Reserve or the use of overnight Federal Funds Sold to highly rated counterparties or short-term U.S. Treasury Bills or Notes. Other asset liquidity can be provided by unpledged, AAA rated securities which could be sold or pledged to various counterparties under established TCF lines. At December 31, 2010, TCF had asset liquidity of $507 million. Deposits are TCF’s primary source of funding. In addition, TCF maintains secured sources of funding, which include $1.7 billion in secured borrowing capacity at the FHLB of Des Moines and $529 million of secured borrowing capacity at the Federal Reserve Discount Window. TCF’s secured borrowing capacity with the FHLB is dependent upon the maintenance by TCF of a Borrowing Base Certificate which pledges consumer and commercial real estate loans to the FHLB under a blanket lien. In addition, the FHLB relies upon its own internal credit analysis of TCF’s financial results when determining TCF’s secured borrowing capacity. Should the FHLB lower its internal issuer credit rating on TCF, TCF’s secured borrowing capacity could be reduced, TCF could be required to change collateral from a blanket lien to physically delivering loan files which would be held at the FHLB, or both. Additionally, diminished borrowing capacity could result from TCF credit rating downgrades and unfavorable conditions in the credit markets that restrict or limit various funding sources. TCF has developed and maintains a contingency funding plan should certain liquidity needs arise. Other Market Risks The Company is also exposed to foreign currency risk as changes in foreign exchange rates may impact the Company’s investment in TCF Commercial Finance Canada, Inc. (“TCFCFC”) or results of other transactions in countries outside of the United States. During 2010, TCF entered into forward foreign exchange contracts in order to minimize the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates on its investment in and loans to TCFCFC and on certain other foreign lease transactions. The value of 10 forward foreign exchange contracts vary over their contractual lives as the related currency exchange rates fluctuate. TCF may also experience realized and unrealized gains or losses on forward foreign exchange contracts as a result of changes in foreign exchange rates. The investments in FHLB stock are required investments related to TCF’s borrowings from these banks. FHLBs obtain their funding primarily through issuance of consolidated obligations of the FHLB system. The U.S. Government does not guarantee these obligations, and each of the 12 FHLBs are generally jointly and severally liable for repayment of each other’s debt. The FHLB system has experienced financial stress in recent years, and some of the regional banks within the FHLB system have suspended or reduced their dividends, or eliminated the ability of members to redeem capital stock. The ultimate impact of these developments on the FHLB system or its programs for advances to members is not clear. TCF’s investments in the FHLB and ability to obtain FHLB funds could be adversely impacted if the financial health of the FHLB system worsens. Operational Risk Management Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, incorrect or inadequate execution, and systems, or external events. This definition includes transaction risk, which includes losses from fraud, error, the inability to deliver products or services, and loss or theft of information. Transaction risk encompasses product development and delivery, transaction processing, information technology systems, and the internal control environment. The definition of operational risk also includes compliance risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or nonconformance with laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices, or ethical standards. The Company’s Integrated Risk Control Services department periodically assesses the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s processes for controlling and managing risks in all core areas of operations. This includes determining whether internal controls and information systems are properly designed and adequately tested and reviewed. This also includes determining whether the system of internal controls over financial reporting is appropriate for the type and level of risks posed by the nature and scope of the Company’s activities. Audit plans are prepared using a risk-based methodology as well as any concerns identified by management, the Audit Committee, regulators or the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm. Significant issues related to the adequacy of controls, together with recommendations for improvements to those controls, are reported to management and the Audit Committee. The Company’s Compliance Department and others charged with compliance responsibilities periodically assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s processes for controlling and managing its principal compliance risks. Compliance Department audit plans are prepared using a risk-based methodology as well as any concerns identified by management, the Audit Committee, or regulators. Significant issues related to the adequacy of controls, together with recommendations for improvements to those controls, are reported to management and the Audit Committee. In July 2010, TCF National Bank entered into a consent order with the OCC directing the Bank to address certain deficiencies relating to the BSA. See “Item 1. Business – Regulation – Examinations and Regulatory Sanctions”. Other Risks Declines in Real Estate Values Declines in home and real estate values in TCF’s markets have adversely impacted results of operations. Like all banks, TCF is subject to the effects of any economic downturn, and in particular, a continued decline in real estate values in TCF’s markets could have a further negative effect on results of operations. A significant further decline in home values would likely lead to an additional decrease in new consumer real estate loan originations, increased delinquencies, defaults, non-accrual and accruing modified loans, as well as increased losses in this portfolio. A significant further decline in commercial real estate values would likely lead to an additional reduction of TCF’s secured interest levels and potentially increase accruing modified loans or non-accrual loans. Economic Conditions In addition to the declines in home values, the weak economy has also adversely impacted TCF’s results of operations. Continued weakness of the economy coupled with high unemployment and decreased consumer spending could have a further negative effect on results of TCF’s operations through higher credit losses, lower transaction-related revenues and lower average deposit balances. Soundness of other financial institutions Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. TCF has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and 11 dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose TCF to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client. In addition, TCF’s credit risk may be exacerbated when collateral held cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due. Any such losses could have a material and adverse effect on TCF’s financial condition and results of operations. Customer Behavior Changes in customers’ behavior regarding use of deposit accounts could result in lower fee revenue, higher borrowing costs, and higher operational costs for TCF. TCF obtains a large portion of its revenue from its deposit accounts and depends on low-interest cost deposits as a significant source of funds. In addition, competition from other financial institutions or adverse customer reaction to changes in TCF’s products, in response to new regulations, could result in higher numbers of closed accounts and increased account acquisition costs. New Products In 2010, TCF introduced a new anchor retail deposit account product that replaced TCF Totally Free Checking, and that calls for a monthly maintenance fee on accounts not meeting certain requirements. After gauging the impact and response from customers and competition, TCF amended the fee waiver criteria in early 2011 to be more customer-friendly and to generate and retain accounts. TCF also implemented new regulatory requirements that prohibit financial institutions from charging NSF fees on point-of-sale and ATM transactions unless customers opt-in. The opt-in election is revocable by customers at any time. In 2011, TCF is considering retail checking account changes that include charging a daily negative balance fee in lieu of a per item NSF fee. This is a unique product that TCF hopes will simplify this process for customers by eliminating fees for each item presented and assessing a single fee for each day an account is overdrawn. TCF continually seeks to react to changes in competitive conditions and customer behavior, but uncertainties relating to customer acceptance of new products and competitive conditions could adversely impact TCF’s new account origination activity and fee income. Card Revenue Future card revenues may be impacted by class action litigation against Visa USA Inc. (Visa USA) and MasterCard®. Under Visa USA’s Bylaws, TCF has a contingent obligation to indemnify Visa USA for certain litigation unrelated to TCF. See page 28 under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for details of TCF’s contingent obligation to indemnify Visa USA for certain litigation. Merchants are also seeking to develop independent card products or payment systems that would serve as alternatives to TCF Visa card products. The continued success of TCF’s various card programs is dependent on the success and viability of Visa and the continued use by customers and acceptance by merchants of its cards. Card revenues are anticipated to be further impacted by the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, which directs the Federal Reserve to establish rules by April 21, 2011, required to take effect by July 21, 2011, related to debit-card interchange fees which preclude the recovery of costs other than those permitted by the Amendment. The Federal Reserve issued proposed regulations implementing the Durbin Amendment in December 2010. If the proposed regulations are adopted, the reduction in TCF’s average interchange rate after July 21, 2011 could approach 85%. TCF has filed a lawsuit against the Federal Reserve and OCC challenging the constitutionality of the Amendment on the grounds that it violates TCF’s due process rights as it requires TCF to offer the debit card product below cost and thus not earn a full return on invested capital, denies TCF equal protection under the law by exempting institutions with assets less than $10 billion and violates TCF’s rights under the takings clause of the Constitution of the United States by causing TCF to bear a substantial competitive and financial burden without just compensation. Supermarket Branches The success of TCF’s supermarket branches is dependent on the continued long-term success and viability of TCF’s supermarket partners and TCF’s ability to maintain licenses or lease agreements for its supermarket locations. A significant financial decline of one of our supermarket partners could result in the loss of supermarket branches or increase costs to operate the supermarket branches. At December 31, 2010, TCF had 234 supermarket branches. Supermarket banking continues to play an important role in TCF’s growth, as these branches have been consistent generators of account growth and deposits. TCF is subject to the risk, among others, that its license or lease for a location or locations will terminate upon the sale or closure of that location or locations by the supermarket partner. Also, an economic slowdown, or financial or labor difficulties in the supermarket industry, may reduce activity in TCF’s supermarket branches. 12 Leasing and Equipment Finance Activities TCF’s leasing and equipment finance activities are subject to the risk of cyclical downturns and other adverse economic developments. In an adverse economic environment, there may be a decline in the demand for some types of equipment which TCF leases and/or finances, resulting in a decline in the amount of new equipment being placed in service as well as the decline in equipment values for equipment previously placed in service. TCF, like all owners and lessors of commercial equipment, may also be exposed to liability claims resulting from injuries or accidents involving that equipment. TCF seeks to mitigate its overall exposure to lessor’s liability risk by requiring certain lessees to furnish evidence of liability insurance prior to lease inception and to maintain that insurance throughout the term of the lease and through its own insurance programs. Inventory Finance TCF has strategic and execution risk associated with expanding the inventory finance business as the ability to attract and retain manufacturers and dealers may not achieve expectations. The core operating risks of this business, except for foreign currency risk, are similar to other existing TCF businesses but also include the risk that inventory could be sold without the dealer remitting payment to TCF as required. FDIC Insurance The FDIC is authorized to terminate a depository institution’s deposit insurance if it finds that the institution is being operated in an unsafe and unsound manner or has violated any rule, regulation, order or condition administered by the institution’s regulatory authorities. Any such termination of deposit insurance would likely have a material adverse effect on TCF, the severity of which would depend on the amount of deposits affected by such a termination. Income Taxes TCF is subject to income tax laws which are often complex and require interpretation. Changes in income tax laws could negatively impact TCF’s results of operations. If TCF’s Real Estate Investment Trust (“REIT”) affiliate fails to qualify as a REIT, or should states enact legislation taxing REITs or related entities, TCF’s tax expense would increase. The REIT and related companies must meet specific provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and state tax laws. Use of REITs is and has been the subject of federal and state audits, litigation with state taxing authorities and tax policy debates by various state legislatures. Additional unfavorable tax law changes or unfavorable audit results could increase TCF’s income taxes. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Consolidated Income Statement Analysis – Income Taxes” and Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Rules and Regulations Uncertainty remains as to the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010. Significant regulatory and legal consequences may arise as provisions of the Act are interpreted and implemented by designated regulatory agencies. Along with the Act, new or revised tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, rules and standards could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations, and financial condition. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state laws and regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, and not necessarily to benefit a financial company’s stockholders. These laws and regulations may impose significant limitations on operations. These limitations, and sources of potential liability for the violation of such laws and regulations, are described in “Item 1. Business – Regulation”. These regulations, along with tax and accounting laws, regulations, rules and standards, have a significant impact on the ways that financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives, engage in tax planning and make financial disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules and standards are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. The nature, extent, and timing of the adoption of significant new laws, changes in existing laws, or repeal of existing laws may have a material impact on TCF’s business, results of operations, and financial condition, the effect of which is impossible to predict. Violations of these laws can result in enforcement actions which can impact operations. Future Legislative and Regulatory Change; Litigation and Enforcement Activity There are a number of respects in which future legislative or regulatory change, or changes in enforcement practices or court rulings, could adversely affect TCF, and it is generally not possible to predict when or if such changes may have an impact on TCF. TCF’s income in future periods may be negatively impacted by pending state and federal legislative proposals which, if enacted, could limit interest rates or loan, deposit or other fees and service charges. Financial institutions have also increasingly been the subject of class action lawsuits or in some cases regulatory actions challenging a variety of practices involving 13 consumer lending and retail deposit-taking activity. Increased litigation brought on the basis of state law, including litigation brought by state attorneys general, or enforcement actions by the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, are possible as a result of the enactment of the Act. See Business – Regulation – Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) and fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Department of Justice and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful challenge to an institution’s performance under the CRA or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity, and restrictions on expansion activity. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution’s performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. USA Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts The USA Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in sanctions and possibly fines. In recent years, several banking institutions have received sanctions and some have incurred large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. Disruption to Infrastructure The extended disruption of vital infrastructure could negatively impact TCF’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. TCF’s operations depend upon, among other things, its technological and physical infrastructure, including its equipment and facilities. Extended disruption of its vital infrastructure by fire, power loss, natural disaster, telecommunications failure, computer hacking and viruses, terrorist activity or the domestic and foreign response to such activity, or other events outside of TCF’s control, could have a material adverse impact either on the financial services industry as a whole, or on TCF’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. Estimates and Assumptions TCF’s consolidated financial statements conform with generally accepted accounting principles, which require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. These estimates are based on information available to management at the time the estimates are made. Actual results could differ from those estimates. For further information relating to critical accounting estimates, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates”. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 