Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not currently know about or currently believe are immaterial are not specifically identified below, but may nevertheless adversely affect our business. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or future results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not have enough statutory capital and surplus to continue to write business Our continued ability to write business is dependent on maintaining adequate levels of statutory capital and surplus to support the policies we write. Our new business writing typically results in net losses on a statutory basis during the early years of a policy. The resulting reduction in statutory surplus limits our ability to seek new business due to statutory restrictions on premium to surplus ratios and statutory surplus requirements. If we cannot generate sufficient statutory surplus to maintain minimum statutory requirements through increased statutory profitability, reinsurance or other capital generating alternatives, we will be limited in our ability to realize additional premium revenue from new business writing, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or, in the event that our statutory surplus is not sufficient to meet minimum premium to surplus and risk based capital ratios in any state, we could be prohibited from writing new policies in such state. Our reserves for current and future claims may be inadequate and any increase to such reserves could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We calculate and maintain reserves for current and future claims using assumptions about numerous variables, including our estimate of the probability of a policyholder making a claim, the severity and duration of such claim, the mortality rate of our policyholders, the persistency or renewal of our policies in-force and the amount of interest we expect to earn from the investment of premiums. The adequacy of our reserves depends on the accuracy of our assumptions. We cannot be certain that our actual experience will not differ from the assumptions used in the establishment of reserves. Any variance from our assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our unamortized deferred policy acquisition cost asset may not be fully recoverable, which would result in an impairment charge and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In connection with the sale of our insurance policies, we defer and amortize the policy acquisition costs over the related premium paying periods throughout the life of the policy. These costs include all expenses that are directly related to, and vary with, the acquisition of the policy, including commissions, underwriting and other policy issue expenses. The amortization of DAC is determined using the same persistency and discount rate assumptions utilized in computing policy reserves. We review the assumptions underlying DAC and our policy reserves on at least a quarterly basis to determine their continued adequacy given current observed trends and expectations. If, based on that review we 28 determine that our DAC is not fully recoverable, we would impair the value of our DAC and would fully expense the impaired amount. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our reinsurance agreements with Imagine International Reinsurance Limited are subject to an aggregate limit of liability, which, if exceeded, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our reinsurance agreements with Imagine International Reinsurance Limited are subject to certain coverage limitations and an aggregate limit of liability. The aggregate limit of liability may be reduced if we do not use best efforts to obtain premium rate increases deemed necessary under the provisions of the agreements and if certain other events occur. If the aggregate limit of liability is expected to be exceeded in the future, we would establish a contingent deficiency reserve for the expected shortfall, resulting in the reduction of our statutory surplus. Our reinsurance agreements also limit the amount of security to be provided by the reinsurer in order for us to gain full statutory credit for the cession of our reserves. This security is generally in the form of a letter of credit issued for our benefit. This letter of credit cannot exceed $100 million plus the aggregate of all expense and risk charges paid to the reinsurer since inception of the agreement. If our letter of credit requirements exceeded this limit, our ability to take full credit for the ceded reserves would be limited. In the event that (1) the reinsurer’s limit of liability is reduced or exceeded, (2) our ability to take full credit for ceded reserves is limited, (3) the reinsurance agreements are cancelled due to lack of premium payments or (4) the reinsurer is not able to satisfy its obligations to us our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may have insufficient capital and surplus to commute our reinsurance agreement with Imagine International Reinsurance Limited, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are entitled to commute (i.e., recapture the statutory reserve liabilities on the underlying policies) our reinsurance agreement with Imagine International Reinsurance Limited on January 1, 2008 or any January 1 thereafter. To be able to do so, we would be required to have amounts of statutory capital and surplus which would support recapturing the statutory liability for such policies. We do not currently have enough statutory capital and surplus to do so. In order to commute the agreement and remain in compliance with requisite regulatory minimum standards, we will need to have a risk based capital ratio of at least 200%. Our current modeling and actuarial projections suggest that our RBC ratio should be at or slightly above 200% and therefore we may be able to commute the 2001 Imagine Agreement on January 1, 2010. We also believe that we should have an additional margin for any adverse development in order to recapture the block of business. These projections include assumptions related to premiums (new sales, persistency and the timing of premium rate increases), investment income, expense levels, incurred claims (paid claims plus change in claim reserves) and changes in our future policyholder benefits. Because our current projections show that we are unable to commute the 2001 Imagine Agreement until January 1, 2010, we have included additional expense and risk charges in our DAC recoverability analysis. Our DAC is still recoverable with these additional expense and risk charges. We are considering alternatives that may allow us to either commute the 2001 Imagine Agreement prior to January 1, 2010 or reduce the expense and risk charges that escalate as a result of not commuting on January 1, 2009. We believe that alternatives such as modifications to the current reinsurance agreement, new reinsurance agreements, additional capital issuances or a transaction that is completed as a result of our current review of strategic alternatives are available to allow us to commute the 2001 Imagine Agreement on January 1, 2009. We may not be able to commute the 2001 Imagine Agreement on January 1, 2010, as planned, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. In the event we determine that commutation of the Imagine Agreement is unlikely on or before January 1, 2010, but likely at some future date, we will include additional annual expense and risk charges in our unamortized DAC recoverability analysis. As a result, we could impair the value of our DAC asset and record the impairment in our financial statements at that time. Pursuant to the Plan with the Department, which requires the pre-approval of new or modified reinsurance 29 agreements, we have received approval to modify the 2001 Imagine Agreement. The modification would waive an increase in the expense and risk charges, which would be payable to the Reinsurer if the ceded policies are not recaptured and the Agreement is not commuted on or before January 1, 2009, and allow Penn Treaty, in its sole discretion, to recapture approximately 1/3 of the reinsured business in each of the years 2009, 2010 and 2011, with no escalation in the expense and risk charges. The modification would give us additional latitude in deciding the economics of commuting the agreement via other capital alternatives. At the time of the filing of this document, the modified Agreement has not been signed by the reinsurer or by us. Our reinsurers may not satisfy their obligations to us, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We obtain reinsurance from unaffiliated reinsurers, in addition to Imagine International Reinsurance Limited, on certain of our policies. Although each reinsurer is liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred to such reinsurer, reinsurance does not relieve us of liability to our policyholders. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to all of our reinsurers. We cannot assure you that our reinsurers will pay all of our reinsurance claims or that they will pay our reinsurance claims on a timely basis. The failure of our reinsurers to make such payments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We could suffer a loss if our premium rates are not adequate and we are unable to obtain necessary state approvals for premium rate increases. We set our premium rates for both new and existing policies based on assumptions about numerous variables, including our estimate of the probability of a policyholder making a claim, the severity and duration of such claim, the mortality rate of our policyholders, the persistency or renewal of our policies in-force, the expenses associated with administering our policies and the amount of interest we expect to earn from the investment of premiums. In setting premium rates, we consider historical claims information, industry statistics and other factors. Based on our recent studies, we believe that the policies we currently sell are priced to provide a satisfactory profit margin. However, those studies also demonstrate that certain of our older policies are only marginally profitable and some are unprofitable. As a result, we commenced efforts to obtain premium rate increases on such polices, which include policies for which we previously received premium rate increases. If our actual experience related to either the pricing on our new policies or the premium rates on our existing policies proves to be less favorable than we assumed, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We generally cannot raise our premium rates in any state unless we first obtain the approval of the insurance regulator in that state. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain approval for premium rate increases from existing requests or requests filed in the future, especially in light of the magnitude of past premium rate increases and consumer sentiment. If we are unable to raise our premium rates because we fail to obtain approval for a premium rate increase in one or more states, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In 2005, we settled a class action based on past premium rate increases in which we were the defendant. As part of the settlement, many existing policyholders elected a contingent non-forfeiture benefit, which could entitle them to a paid-up benefit upon lapse following future premium rate increases that exceed certain age-dependent thresholds. While we release reserves to income for lapsing policyholders, the effect of the settlement could lead to higher than expected lapses, future benefit payments for non-premium paying policyholders and anti-selection of remaining policyholders. Although we include an assumption for anti-selection in our policyholder reserves, anti-selection could cause our actual claims experience to exceed our expectations based on the higher risk of the remaining policyholders. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our failure to timely file periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) could result in enforcement action by the SEC, stock exchange delisting actions or shareholder lawsuits. 30 We have failed to file timely periodic reports since the third quarter of 2005. This could result in enforcement action by the SEC, delisting of our common stock by the New York Stock Exchange or shareholder lawsuits. If any of these were to happen, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Legal and regulatory investigations are increasingly common in the insurance business and may result in financial losses and harm our reputation. We are subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state and federal regulators and other authorities. Recently, the long-term care insurance industry has become the focus of increased scrutiny by regulatory and other authorities concerning certain practices within the industry. In this regard, in May 2007, the U. S. House Committee on Energy and Commerce requested information from long-term care insurance companies, including our Company, regarding their practices and protocols for assessing, paying and denying claims. We cooperated fully in supplying the requested information within the time frame requested. In addition, in September 2007, the minority leader of the U.S. Senate Committee on Finance requested information about long-term care insurance procedures from the leading long-term care industry carriers. We cooperated fully in supplying the requested information within the time frame requested. In October 2007, the office of the Attorney General of the state of New York issued subpoenas to all long-term care insurance carriers issuing policies in New York. We are cooperating fully and have been providing information in response on a continuing basis. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners and certain state Insurance Departments also conducted industry-wide regulatory inquiries during 2007. In January 2008, we were informed that the U.S. Government Accountability Office has requested information from the leading long-term care industry carriers, including our Company, to evaluate oversight of the long-term care insurance industry in the areas of rate setting and claims settlement practices. We intend to cooperate fully in supplying the requested information in the time frame requested. We cannot ensure that the current investigations and proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, it is possible that related investigations may be commenced in the future, and we could become subject to further investigations and have lawsuits filed against us. In addition, increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings could result in new legal precedents and industry-wide regulations or practices that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. A significant regulatory action or a substantial legal liability against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in any related litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer significant reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to attract new customers and retain our current customers. We may suffer reduced income if governmental authorities change the regulations applicable to the insurance industry. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive regulation by state insurance regulatory authorities. The laws of the various states establish insurance departments with broad powers with respect to such things as licensing companies to transact business, licensing agents, prescribing accounting principles and practices, admitting statutory assets, mandating certain insurance benefits, regulating premium rates, approving policy forms, regulating unfair trade, regulating market conduct and claims practices, establishing statutory reserve requirements and solvency standards, limiting dividends, restricting certain transactions between affiliates and regulating the types, amounts and statutory valuation of investments. The primary purpose of such regulation is to protect policyholders, not shareholders. State legislatures, state insurance regulators and the NAIC continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, and may impose changes in the future that materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and could make it difficult or financially impracticable to continue doing business. Some states limit premium rate increases on long-term care insurance products and other states have considered doing so. Because insurance premiums are our primary source of income, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected by any of these changes. 31 Certain legislative proposals could, if enacted, adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. These include the implementation of minimum consumer protection standards for inclusion in all long-term care policies, including: guaranteed premium rates; protection against inflation; limitations on waiting periods for pre-existing conditions; setting standards for sales practices for long-term care insurance; and guaranteed consumer access to information about insurers, including lapse and replacement rates for policies and the percentage of claims denied. In addition, recent Federal financial services legislation requires states to adopt laws for the protection of consumer privacy. Compliance with various existing and pending privacy requirements also could result in significant additional costs to us. Our business could be materially adversely affected if our financial strength ratings are downgraded; we may not be able to compete successfully with insurers that have greater financial resources or better financial strength ratings. We sell our products in highly competitive markets. We compete with large national insurers, smaller regional insurers and specialty insurers. Many insurers are larger than we are and many have greater resources and better financial strength ratings than we do. Most insurers also have not experienced the regulatory problems we have faced. In addition, we are subject to competition from insurers with broader product lines. In addition a significant portion of our sales come from our willingness to underwrite physically impaired risks. Currently no other major carrier is competing with us in the underwriting of physically impaired risks. We also may be subject, from time to time, to new competition resulting from changes in Medicare benefits, as well as from insurance carriers introducing products similar to those offered by us or by new carriers entering the long-term care insurance marketplace. If we are unable to remain competitive for any of these reasons it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The financial strength ratings assigned to our insurance company subsidiaries by A.M. Best Company, Inc. and Standard & Poor’s Insurance Rating Services, two independent insurance industry rating agencies, affect our ability to expand and to attract new business. A.M. Best’s ratings for the industry range from “A++ (superior)” to “F (in liquidation).” Standard & Poor’s ratings range from “AAA (extremely strong)” to “CC (extremely weak).” A.M. Best and Standard & Poor’s insurance company ratings are based upon factors of concern to policyholders and insurance agents and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Our subsidiaries that are rated have A.M. Best ratings of “B – (negative outlook)” and Standard & Poor’s ratings of “B- (stable outlook)”. In July 2006, both A.M. Best and Standard & Poor’s assigned our ratings to “credit watch, with negative outlook”. In August 2007, Standard & Poor's reduced the financial strength rating of the Company's subsidiary, Penn Treaty Network America Insurance Company to "B- (stable outlook)". In February 2008, A.M. Best reduced the financial strength rating of the Company's insurance subsidiaries to "B – (negative outlook)". We believe that a further downgrade of either of these ratings would have an adverse effect upon our ability to sell new policies, including, but not limited to, the potential for certain key states to suspend our ability to write new business in those states, including Florida, which specifically cites a rating agency downgrade in our consent order as a reason for suspension, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain distributors will not sell our products unless we have a more favorable financial strength rating. Similarly, certain prospective customers may decline to purchase new policies because of a perceived risk of non-payment of policy benefits due to our financial condition. Our inability to achieve improved ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our reinsurance agreement with Imagine International Reinsurance Limited, allows our assets withheld and payable to the reinsurer to be transferred to the reinsurer in the event, that our Standard and Poor’s rating falls below “B-.” Our business could be materially adversely affected if we were unable to continue selling policies in key states. Historically, our business has been concentrated in a few key states. During 2007 and 2006, approximately 39% and 40%, respectively, of our direct premium revenue was in California, Florida and Pennsylvania. Although we have recommenced new policy sales in 44 states, including California, Florida and Pennsylvania, we are currently 32 suspended from new sales in Florida and we have not yet recommenced new policy sales in six other states. We are working with the remaining states to recommence sales in all jurisdictions. Florida represented approximately 6% of new applications for insurance prior to the suspension of new sales at June 4, 2007. We have agreed to conditions for the recommencement of business in California, Florida (prior to the current suspension), Illinois, Ohio and Pennsylvania. If we were found not to be in compliance with these conditions, we could be forced to stop new policy sales. Each state insurance department may impose its own conditions on our recommencing or continuing new policy sales in its state. If we are unable to continue selling new policies in our key states, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified, experienced personnel. We have in the past experienced, and we expect to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. Because long-term care insurance is a very specialized segment of the insurance industry, we face significant competition in recruiting talented personnel. The location of our corporate offices outside of a major metropolitan area also makes it difficult to recruit personnel. We might not be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. Failure to recruit new personnel or failure to retain our current personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations because it could impact our ability to complete actuarial and financial analyses in a timely manner. We may not complete any transaction as a result of our evaluation of strategic alternatives. We retained Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Co., Inc. ("FBR") to assist us in the review of strategic alternatives to enhance shareholder value. These alternatives could include, but are not limited to, capital structure review, strategic partnerships, business combination transactions or the sale of certain assets. There can be no assurance that our review of strategic alternatives will result in any specific transaction or if we engage in a transaction that it will be on terms favorable to our shareholders. If we are unable to complete a transaction, it could limit our ability to increase sales growth, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If demand for long-term care insurance continues to decline, we will not be able to execute our strategy of strengthening our position as a leading provider of long-term care insurance. We have devoted significant resources to developing our long-term care insurance business, and our growth strategy relies upon continued growth of the sale of this product. In recent years, however, industry sales of individual long-term care insurance have declined. Annualized first-year premiums for individual long-term care insurance achieved a historical high in 2002 at approximately $1.0 billion but have decreased to $614 million in 2006, according to LIMRA International. We believe this decrease was due primarily to decisions by several providers to cease offering long-term care insurance, to raise premiums on in-force policies and/or to introduce new products with higher prices. These actions resulted in decreased purchases of long-term care insurance products and have caused some distributors to reduce their sales focus on these products. If the market for long-term care insurance continues to decline, we may be unable to realize our growth strategy and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to compete successfully if we cannot recruit and retain insurance agents. We distribute our products principally through independent agents that we recruit and train to market and sell our products. We also engage FMOs to recruit independent agents and develop networks of agents in various states. We compete vigorously with other insurance companies for productive independent agents, primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services, compensation and product features. When we ceased new policy sales in 2001, many of our agents began selling more long-term care insurance products issued by our competitors. We may not be able to attract (or in the case of agents who have begun writing long-term care products for our competitors, to re-engage) and retain independent agents to sell our products, including if we are unable to obtain permission to recommence new policy sales in the six states where we are currently not permitted to offer new policies. In addition, we believe that the willingness of independent agents to represent our Company is hindered by delays in financial 33 reporting, ratings, and unfavorable Company and industry reports issued by the media or reviewed by governmental bodies. Because our future profitability depends greatly on new policy sales, our business and ability to compete would suffer if we are unable to recruit and retain insurance agents or if we lose the services provided by our FMOs. Litigation may result in financial losses or harm our reputation and may divert management resources. Current and future litigation may result in financial losses, harm our reputation and require the dedication of significant management resources. We are regularly involved in litigation. The litigation naming us as a defendant ordinarily involves our activities as an insurer. In recent years, many insurance companies, including us, have been named as defendants in class actions relating to market conduct issues, sales practices and premium rate increases. See Item 3 – “Legal Proceedings” for a description of current legal proceedings. Significant litigation could materially adversely affect our financial condition due to defense costs, settlements or adverse decisions. Our investment performance may affect our financial results and ability to conduct business Our funds are invested by professional investment management firms under the direction of our management team in accordance with investment guidelines approved by the Investment Committee of the Board of Directors. Our investments are subject to market risks, as well as risks inherent to individual securities. Investment losses could significantly decrease our book value, thereby affecting our ability to conduct business. We do not match the duration of assets and liabilities, which could subject us to interest rate risk from the investment of new cash flows that are inadequate to meet our future claims payments. In addition, we are limited by the Plan with the Department as to the types of new investments that we may purchase. We are also limited by our statutory surplus in terms of the level of realized loss we can incur in connection with the sale of existing assets and purchase of new investments. This could, and has, limited our ability to realign the duration of our investment portfolio and to maximize our investment yield. Our future earnings could be restricted as a result of these limitations. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our operating results are affected by the performance of our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio contains fixed income investments and may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Volatility in interest rates could also have an adverse effect on our investment income and operating results. For example, if interest rates decline, funds reinvested will earn less than the maturing investment. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including monetary and fiscal policies and domestic and international political conditions. We may not be able to effectively mitigate interest rate sensitivity. A significant increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our book value. Certain anti-takeover provisions in state law and our Articles of Incorporation may make it more difficult to acquire us and thus may depress the market price of our common stock. Our Restated and Amended Articles of Incorporation, the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law of 1988, as amended, and the insurance laws of states in which our insurance subsidiaries do business contain certain provisions which could delay or impede the removal of incumbent directors and could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us difficult, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our shareholders, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. In particular, the classification and three-year terms of our directors could have the effect of delaying a change in control. Insurance laws and regulations of Pennsylvania and New York, our insurance subsidiaries’ states of domicile, prohibit any person from acquiring control of us, and thus indirect control of our insurance subsidiaries, without the prior approval of the insurance commissioners of those states. 34 The exercise of our outstanding stock options and any future issuances of new shares of our common stock may result in significant dilution to our existing shareholders. We anticipate that to finance the growth of our business adequately and to support our liquidity needs, we may offer and sell additional shares of common stock or convertible debt in private or public offerings in the future. The occurrence of any or all of the foregoing may result in significant additional dilution to our existing shareholders. Our computer systems may fail or their security may be compromised, which could damage our business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is highly dependent upon the uninterrupted operation of our computer systems. We rely on these systems throughout our business for a variety of functions, including processing claims and applications, providing information to customers and distributors, performing actuarial analyses and maintaining financial records. Despite the implementation of security measures, our computer systems may be vulnerable to physical or electronic intrusions, computer viruses or other attacks, programming errors and similar disruptive problems. The failure of these systems for any reason could cause significant interruptions to our operations, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We retain confidential information in our computer systems, and we rely on sophisticated commercial technologies to maintain the security of those systems. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures and penetrate our computer systems could access, view, misappropriate, alter or delete any information in the systems, including personally identifiable customer information and proprietary business information. In addition, an increasing number of states and foreign countries require that customers be notified if a security breach results in the disclosure of personally identifiable customer information, which could damage our reputation in the marketplace, deter people from purchasing our products, subject us to significant civil and criminal liability and require us to incur significant technical, legal and other expenses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 