Item 1A. Risk Factors Cyclicality of the Aerospace and Jet Engine Industries Substantially all of our revenues are derived from the aerospace and jet engine industries, which are cyclical in nature and subject to changes based on general economic conditions, airline profitability, passenger ridership and international relations. The duration and severity of upturns and downturns in these industries are influenced by a variety of factors, including those set forth herein. Accordingly, they cannot be predicted with any certainty. Historically, orders for new commercial aircraft and related commercial aerospace components have been driven by the operating profits or losses of commercial airlines. Purchases by customers in the military aerospace sector are dependent upon defense budgets. Events adversely affecting the airline industry, such as cyclical overcapacity and inability to maintain profitable fare structures, would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Reduction in Government Spending Since 2002, approximately one-quarter of our annual revenues have been derived from the government-sponsored aerospace industry, an industry that is dependent upon government budgets and, in particular, the United States government budget. There can be no assurance that U.S. defense and space budgets and the related demand for defense and space equipment will continue or that sales of defense and space equipment to foreign governments will continue at present levels. Competition The sale of metal components for the aerospace, jet engine and industrial markets is highly competitive. Many products we manufacture are readily interchangeable with the products manufactured by our competitors. Many of our products are sold under long-term contracts which are bid upon by several suppliers. Our principal competitor, Precision Castparts Corp. (“PCC”), is a substantially larger business and has greater financial resources. In 2006, PCC purchased one of our larger suppliers of nickel-based alloys, Special Metals Corporation. Currently, the Company is dependent upon PCC as its sole source of supply for certain nickel-based powder alloys. Reliance on Major Customers Our three largest customers accounted for approximately 50%, 50% and 47% of our revenues in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. Because of the small number of customers for some of our principal products, those customers exercise significant influence over our prices and other terms of trade. The loss 9 of any of our largest customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The labor strike at Boeing during the second half of 2008 had a negative impact upon the entire commercial aviation industry including the Company. Dependence on Key Personnel We have been and continue to be dependent on certain key management personnel. Our ability to maintain our competitive position will depend, in part, upon our ability to retain these key managers and to continue to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel. There can be no assurance that the loss of key personnel would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or that we will be able to recruit and retain such personnel. Product Liability Exposure We produce many critical engine and structural parts for commercial and military aircraft and for other specialty applications. As a result, we have an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims. We currently maintain product liability insurance, but there can be no assurance that insurance coverage will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us or that such coverage will be adequate for any liabilities that might be incurred. Availability and Price of Raw Materials The largest single component of our cost of goods sold is raw material costs. We manufacture products in a wide variety of specialty metals and alloys, some of which can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers. We hold limited quantities of raw materials in inventory but, for the principal part of our business, we seek to procure delivery of raw materials in quantities and at times matching customers’ orders. We, along with other entities in the industry, have experienced periods of increased delivery times for nickel-based and titanium alloys and certain stainless steels, which account for a significant portion of our raw materials. Significant scarcity of supply of raw materials used by us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations by affecting both the timing of delivery and the cost of purchasing such materials. In addition, our largest competitor, PCC, has purchased one of our largest suppliers of nickel-based alloys. Many of our products are sold pursuant to long-term agreements with our customers, which currently provide us the right to pass through material cost increases. Any inability to obtain such rights in future long-term agreements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Labor Contracts Approximately 49% of our domestic employees are represented by seven collective bargaining units. Contracts were historically renegotiated every three years with each union. Six of the unions in 2006 and one union in 2007 entered into six-year agreements with the Company. While we do not expect that work stoppages will arise in connection with the renewal of labor agreements expiring in the foreseeable future, no assurance can be given that work stoppages will not occur. An extended or widespread work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Obligations Many of our employees are eligible to participate in various Company-sponsored pension plans. In addition to pension benefits, we provide health care and life insurance benefits to our eligible employees and retirees. The pension benefits have been and will continue to be funded through contributions to pension trusts, while health care and life insurance benefits are paid as incurred. 10 We have several pension plans, all of which are underfunded. The aggregate actuarially determined liability recorded for these pension plans on the balance sheet at December 31, 2008 was approximately $70.6 million. The decline in the equity market in the United States in 2008 had a negative impact upon the level of assets in the pension trust of the Company. The actuarially determined liability recorded for postretirement health care and life insurance benefits on the balance sheet at December 31, 2008 was approximately $33.3 million and will be paid as incurred. Compliance with Environmental and Other Government Regulations Our operations are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations promulgated by federal, state and local governments. Many of these laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. The nature of our business exposes us to risks of liability due to the use and storage of materials that can cause contamination or personal injury if released into the environment. In addition, environmental laws may have a significant effect on the nature, scope and cost of cleanup of contamination at operating facilities. It is difficult to predict the future development of such laws and regulations or their impact on future earnings and operations, but we anticipate that these standards will continue to require continued capital expenditures. There can be no assurance that we will not incur material costs and liabilities in the future relating to environmental matters. Risks Related to Significant Price Concessions to Our Customers and Increased Pressure to Reduce Our Costs We are subject to substantial competition in all of the markets we serve, and we expect this competition to continue. As a result, we have made significant price concessions to our customers in the aerospace and industrial markets in recent years and we expect customer pressure for price concessions to continue. Maintenance of our profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to sustain a cost structure that enables us to be cost-competitive. If we are unable to adjust our cost relative to our pricing or if we are unable to continue to compete effectively, our business will suffer. Our Business is Affected by Federal Rules, Regulations and Orders Applicable to Government Contractors A number of our products are manufactured and sold under U.S. government contracts or subcontracts. Violation of applicable government rules and regulations could result in civil liability, in cancellation or suspension of existing contracts or in ineligibility for future contracts or subcontracts funded in whole or in part with federal funds. Risks Associated with International Operations We purchase products from and supply products to businesses located outside of the United States. In fiscal 2008, approximately 59% of our total sales were attributable to non-U.S. customers. A number of risks inherent in international business could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations, including: 11 • currency fluctuations; • general economic and political uncertainties and potential for social unrest in international markets; • limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies; • changes in trade policies; • tariff regulations; • difficulties in obtaining export and import licenses; and • the risk of government financed competition. Our Business Involves Risks Associated with Complex Manufacturing Processes Our manufacturing processes depend on certain sophisticated and high-value equipment, such as some of our forging presses for which there may be only limited or no production alternative. Unexpected failures of this equipment may result in production delays, revenue loss and significant repair costs. In addition, equipment failures could result in injuries to our employees. Moreover, the competitive nature of our business requires that we continuously implement process changes intended to achieve product improvements and manufacturing efficiencies. These process changes may at times result in production delays, quality concerns and increased costs. Any disruption of operations at our facilities due to equipment failures or process interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business. Acquisitions We expect that we will continue to make acquisitions of, investments in, and strategic alliances with complementary businesses, products and technologies to enable us to add products and services for our core customer base and for related markets, and to expand our business geographically. The success of this acquisition strategy will depend on our ability to: identify suitable businesses to buy; negotiate the purchase of those businesses on terms acceptable to us; complete the acquisitions within our expected time frame; improve the results of operations of the businesses that we buy and successfully integrate their operations into our own; and avoid or overcome any concerns expressed by regulators. We may fail to properly complete any or all of these steps. We may not be able to find appropriate acquisition candidates, acquire those candidates that we do find, obtain necessary permits or integrate acquired businesses effectively and profitably. Some of our competitors are also seeking to acquire similar businesses, including competitors that have greater financial resources than we do. Increased competition may reduce the number of acquisition targets available to us and may lead to less favorable terms as part of any acquisition, including higher purchase prices. If acquisition candidates are unavailable or too costly, we may need to change our business strategy. We also cannot be certain that we will have enough capital or be able to raise enough capital on reasonable terms, if at all, to complete the purchases of the businesses that we want to buy. Our credit facility limits our ability to make acquisitions. Our lender may object to certain purchases or place conditions on them that would limit their benefit to us. If we are unsuccessful in implementing our acquisition strategy for the reasons discussed above or otherwise, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has no unresolved comments from the Commission staff. 12 