Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules SIGNATURES EXHIBIT INDEX FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS F-1 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Overview We are in the business of developing and marketing consumer health care products, including Breathe Right® branded products focused on better breathing, and FiberChoice® branded products focused on digestive health. We operate in niche categories of the large over-the-counter health care market with unique product offerings that are supported by strong advertising and promotion programs. Our competitive strengths include our brands, patented technologies, well-established distribution networks domestically and internationally, a flexible and low-cost operating model and an experienced management team. Our principal product, the Breathe Right® nasal strip, improves breathing by dilating the nasal passages. Nasal strips provide temporary relief from nasal congestion and stuffiness resulting from a variety of health conditions, and also reduce or eliminate snoring. Breathe Right nasal strips provide consumers a “drug free” better breathing solution. The Breathe Right brand has been extended by the launch of products such as Breathe Right® Snore Relief™ throat spray in fiscal 2003 and Breathe Right® Snore Relief™ throat rinse scheduled for launch in July 2006. Both products provide drug free, over the counter solutions to manage snoring. Clinical studies have shown that 85% of people with common snoring problems experience a reduction or elimination of their symptoms by using these products in combination with Breathe Right nasal strips. Breathe Right® Vapor Shot!™ personal vaporizer and Breathe Right® saline nasal spray are being phased out during fiscal 2007 as a result of low sales volume. We entered the bulk fiber category in March 2000 with the launch of the FiberChoice brand. The original FiberChoice product is an orange flavored chewable fiber tablet that offers consumers an effective, convenient and good-tasting way to supplement their daily intake of dietary fiber. In March 2005, CNS extended the FiberChoice line to include sugar-free chewable fiber tablets in assorted fruit flavors and a low-sugar, hard candy fiber drop. The hard candy fiber drop product is being phased out during fiscal 2007 as the result of lower than anticipated consumer demand. The FiberChoice brand was further extended in fiscal 2006 with the launch of FiberChoice® plus Calcium and FiberChoice® Weight Management chewable tablets. Both products provide the benefits of the original fiber tablets while delivering the added benefits of calcium or weight management ingredients in the same convenient chewable form. In addition, we are exploring opportunities to acquire established consumer health care brands, product lines and new technologies that complement our better breathing and digestive health brand platforms. History CNS was founded in 1982. From 1982 until 1995, the Company designed, manufactured and marketed computer-based diagnostic devices for sleep disorders. In 1992, CNS obtained the exclusive license to manufacture and sell nasal strips, and in 1993 received FDA clearance to market the nasal strip as a product that improves nasal breathing. In 1994, CNS launched the Breathe Right nasal strip in the United States and in 1995 divested itself of the assets related to its sleep disorders business in order to focus on further developing the Breathe Right nasal strip product. In 1998, CNS strengthened its management team to add consumer healthcare products experience, and since that time continued to develop the Breathe Right brand both domestically and internationally. In 2000, CNS added its second branded product line with the 3 Table of Contents launch of FiberChoice chewable fiber tablets. In fiscal 2006, we purchased the patents and patents pending relating to the FiberChoice chewable fiber products. Competitive Strengths • Development of Strong Brands within Attractive Niche Categories. Our core competency is sales and marketing of consumer healthcare products. We have strategically chosen to focus on niche product categories with unique and high margin product offerings that address recurring consumer needs, and support these products with ongoing advertising and promotion campaigns. Our goal is to develop strong consumer demand based on brand awareness and product loyalty, allowing us to achieve long term growth in sales and profitability. • Proven Ability to Develop Technologies and Products. We focus our product development efforts on identifying underserved consumer needs and then designing products that directly address those unmet needs. The Breathe Right nasal strip and the FiberChoice chewable fiber tablet were both developed by licensing or acquiring the patented technologies from inventors and creating new consumer brands. Both Breathe Right and FiberChoice brands have been expanded through new product launches. • Efficient Operating Model. We focus our internal resources on marketing, sales and product development. We directly manage the production planning and quality control aspects of manufacturing, but outsource manufacturing to well-established, low-cost third-party suppliers. This approach allows us to benefit from manufacturing expertise and economies of scale, and maintain a highly flexible and variable cost structure, with low overhead and low capital investment. We internally manage all aspects of customer service and distribution of our products, delivering a high standard of service to our customers. • Experienced Management Team. We have an experienced management team, with a proven track record of developing branded consumer healthcare products and building shareholder value. Although we maintain a lean staff of approximately 65 full-time equivalent employees, we believe we have the skill and experience of larger companies in our industry. We organize our management structure into five strategic teams focused on growth: Breathe Right brand teams, for domestic and international markets, the FiberChoice brand team and new product development teams for both the Breathe Right and FiberChoice brands. Growth Strategies Investing in Advertising and Promotion. Breathe Right Brand. Our marketing efforts for Breathe Right products are targeted against two key consumer healthcare conditions: nasal congestion and snoring. The majority of advertising and promotion investment is spent on television advertising, which communicates the unique Breathe Right brand benefits of instant, drug-free relief from nasal congestion and snoring. We also use other promotion programs, such as sampling, coupons, in-store advertising and public relations activities. Marketing communications promote trial, as well as repeat purchases of Breathe Right brand products by increasing consumer awareness and developing product loyalty. FiberChoice Brand. Our marketing efforts for FiberChoice products are targeted toward the growing awareness of the need for increased consumption of dietary fiber, and the important health benefits associated with consuming higher levels of dietary fiber. In addition to communicating the importance of increased consumption of dietary fiber, recent new product launches are focused on the growing demand for additional dietary supplements including calcium and weight management ingredients. The majority of advertising and promotion investment is spent on television advertising, which 4 Table of Contents communicates the challenge that active people face in meeting the recommended daily fiber consumption and other dietary needs. The advertising message also highlights the unique benefits offered by FiberChoice products including convenience, efficacy and good taste. Marketing communications are focused on building awareness, which is still at an early stage, and developing strong brand loyalty. Developing New Products. The Breathe Right and FiberChoice brand names are two of our most valuable assets and we intend to continue leveraging these assets by future introduction of new products. Our goal is to continue to develop a pipeline of potential new products under both the Breathe Right and FiberChoice brands, linked to their respective brand equities of better breathing and digestive health. Developing Domestic Distribution. Breathe Right and FiberChoice products are sold to mass merchandise stores, drug stores, grocery stores, warehouse clubs, military base stores and on-line retailers in the United States. We sell our products through a dedicated direct sales force that concentrates on serving key retail accounts as well as through national brokerage organizations which serve our smaller customers. Our customers generally merchandise our products in the over-the-counter drug section of their stores. Breathe Right nasal strips are typically positioned in the cough, cold and allergy sections of stores because they provide benefits similar to those obtained from other decongestant products. FiberChoice products are positioned in the bulk fiber laxative sections of stores. Our retail customers include national chains of mass merchants, drug stores and grocery stores such as Wal-Mart, Target, Eckerd, Walgreen’s, RiteAid, CVS, Kroger and Albertson’s and warehouse clubs such as Sam’s Club and Costco, as well as regional and independent stores in these retail channels. In fiscal 2006, Wal-Mart Corporation accounted for approximately 31% of sales. Expanding Company Presence in International Markets. The Company believes that there is significant market potential for its products outside the United States and is actively developing the Breathe Right brand in selected international markets, most importantly Japan, Europe and Canada. We have established a broad-ranging international distribution system for Breathe Right nasal strips that consists of distributors, sales representatives and suppliers that repackage bulk nasal strips into final consumer packaging. Distributors are appointed largely on an exclusive basis, with territories consisting of one or more countries, and it is expected that this pattern of operation will continue. We retain control over the brand, packaging and advertising in all international markets. Development of a Third Brand Platform. We are exploring opportunities to acquire or develop a third branded consumer healthcare platform or acquire complementary products which would fit under the Breathe Right or FiberChoice brands. We expect that a potential acquisition would expand our product line within consumer healthcare product categories, leveraging our core competency in sales and marketing, as well as increasing efficiency of our distribution system. There can be no assurances that such an opportunity will be realized. Products & Markets Breathe Right Nasal Strips. The Breathe Right nasal strip is a non-prescription, single-use disposable device that improves breathing by dilating the nasal passages. The Company has 510(k) clearance from the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) to market the Breathe Right nasal strip for improvement of nasal breathing, temporary relief of nasal congestion, elimination or reduction of snoring and temporary relief of breathing difficulties due to a deviated nasal septum. See Item 1, “Government Regulation.” 5 Table of Contents The Breathe Right nasal strip includes two embedded flexible “spring-like” pieces which gently lift nasal passages open while a special adhesive holds the strip comfortably in place. The product improves nasal breathing during use and is drug-free, thereby avoiding the side effects associated with many competing products. The Breathe Right nasal strip is offered in two sizes (small/medium and large), and three varieties (tan, clear, and mentholated). Mentholated nasal strips contain a soothing mentholated aroma for additional relief from nasal congestion. Clear nasal strips have been positioned as an alternative for consumers who wish to use the product frequently, but suffer from dry or sensitive skin. Other Breathe Right Products. Breathe Right Snore Relief throat spray and Breathe Right Snore Relief Throat Rinse are drug-free products that address the snoring condition in a complimentary way relative to nasal strips. Clinical studies have shown that 85 percent of people with common snoring problems experience a reduction or elimination of their symptoms by using one of these products in combination with Breathe Right nasal strips. Breathe Right Markets & Competition. Our marketing efforts capitalize on the multiple benefits of Breathe Right products, providing solutions to consumers within the following market segments: • Nasal Congestion Market. Annually most Americans suffer from nasal congestion as a result of the common cold, while nasal congestion as a result of allergies affects approximately 35 million Americans. We believe that Breathe Right nasal strips are often used as either an alternative or as an adjunct to decongestant drugs (including nasal sprays and oral decongestants). This broad cold/flu/allergy market represents significant potential for the Breathe Right brand. • Snoring Market. Snoring is a large potential market given estimates that approximately 37 million Americans snore regularly, while another 50 million Americans snore occasionally. We believe that the percentage of international consumers that suffer from snoring is broadly equivalent to the United States. Based on results from clinical trials, Breathe Right products were effective in reducing or eliminating snoring for approximately 85 percent of participants. • Improved Breathing for Consumers with Deviated Septa. Approximately 12 million people in the United States suffer from a deviated septum, a bend in the cartilage or bone that divides the nostrils. Breathe Right nasal strips were cleared by the Food and Drug Administration in 1996 to provide temporary relief from breathing difficulties associated with a deviated septum. • Athletic Market. We believe that Breathe Right nasal strips make nasal breathing more comfortable and may improve endurance during athletic activity, particularly when a mouth guard is used. An exercise physiology study published in peer-reviewed medical literature in 1997 concluded that Breathe Right nasal strips provided physiologic advantages in ventilation and heart rate during mid-level exercise. Competition in Breathe Right Markets. The market for decongestant products is highly competitive, and many of the competitors have significantly greater financial and operating resources than CNS. Our competition in the consumer market for decongestant products and other cold, allergy and sinus relief products consists primarily of pharmaceutical products sold over the counter, nasal sprays and other external nasal dilators. Competition in the snoring remedies market consists primarily of nasal dilators, throat sprays and herbal products, including supplements and homeopathic remedies. 6 Table of Contents Although we have historically achieved approximately 90% to 95% share of the external nasal dilator market, Schering Plough Corp. entered the market in September 1998 with an external nasal dilation device. In May 2003, Aso Corporation acquired the brand, including the sales and distribution of Schering Plough’s nasal strip device. Other companies have also entered the nasal dilation market with private label products. We believe the patents owned and licensed by the Company on the Breathe Right nasal strip will limit the ability of others to introduce competitive external nasal dilator products similar to the Breathe Right nasal strip in the United States and most major international markets. We intend to aggressively enforce our patent rights covering the Breathe Right nasal strip and have engaged in litigation to protect its patent rights. However, there can be no assurance that potential competitors will not be able to develop nasal dilation products which circumvent our patents. FiberChoice Daily Fiber Supplement. FiberChoice is a line of daily fiber supplements that offer consumers an effective, convenient, good-tasting way to supplement their daily intake of dietary fiber. Two FiberChoice chewable tablets contain four grams of fiber and provide more than twice the amount of fiber per dose compared to other convenient fiber supplements. The active ingredient in FiberChoice tablets is inulin, a natural fiber source, which is a prebiotic that helps promote the growth of healthy bacteria in the intestinal tract. FiberChoice products can be taken without water and have been clinically proven to be as effective as powder alternatives. In addition to providing consumers with a convenient source of dietary fiber, the FiberChoice product line has been expanded to meet consumer demand for a fiber supplement fortified with calcium or weight management ingredients. Approximately 10 million U.S. households annually purchase bulk fiber products, primarily to promote regularity and improve digestive health. The bulk fiber category represents approximately $340 million in U.S. retail sales. We believe this is an attractive product category due to the aging of the U.S. population. Competition in FiberChoice Markets. The market for dietary fiber supplements is highly competitive and dominated by large companies with better established brands and greater resources than CNS. Competitors include Metamucil® manufactured by Procter and Gamble, Citrucel® manufactured by GlaxoSmithKline, Benefiber® manufactured by Norvartis and FiberCon® manufactured by Wyeth. The technology of the FiberChoice chewable fiber tablet is currently protected by one owned U.S. patent with other U.S. and international patents pending. Manufacturing and Operations We outsource all manufacturing to outside suppliers. Each supplier manufactures a portion of our product line to our detailed specifications using raw materials specified by CNS. All suppliers have entered into confidentiality agreements with CNS to protect our intellectual property rights. Our quality control and operations personnel regularly inspect these manufacturers to observe processes and procedures to ensure compliance with FDA Good Manufacturing Practice Standards. Finished goods are also inspected to ensure that they meet quality requirements. We work closely with raw material vendors and our manufacturers to reduce scrap and waste, improve efficiency and improve yields to reduce the manufacturing costs of the product. We have received certification that CNS has established and maintains a quality system which meets the requirements of ISO 9001:2000/EN 46001. All of our manufacturing supply agreements are documented by contracts, with terms ranging from 2 to 5 years. Prices under these agreements are generally established annually and subject to periodic adjustments for changes in actual raw material costs. All of our products are ordered on a purchase order basis and result in no long-term obligations or commitments. 7 Table of Contents To ensure consistent quality and supply, we have multi-year contracts with the suppliers that provide most of the major components for nasal strips. During fiscal 2005, we entered into a multi-year contract with 3M that provides for consistent supply, adherence to specifications and pricing for raw materials used in the manufacturing of nasal strips. Although similar materials are currently available from other suppliers, we have historically utilized 3M components for manufacturing nasal strips. Although we believe that this relationship will not be disrupted, the inability to obtain sufficient quantities of these components or the need to develop alternative sources in a timely and cost-effective manner could adversely affect our operations until new sources of these components become available. We consolidate all domestic finished goods inventories into our leased warehouse adjacent to our offices in Eden Prairie, MN. We retain control of all aspects of customer service, including arranging logistics for shipment of our product to domestic customers and international distributors. Government Regulation As a manufacturer and marketer of medical devices, we are subject to regulation by governmental entities including the FDA and the corresponding agencies of the states and foreign countries in which we sell our products. We must comply with a variety of regulations, including the FDA’s Good Manufacturing Practice regulations, and we are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA and applicable state and foreign agencies. If the FDA believes that its regulations have not been fulfilled, it may implement extensive enforcement powers, including the ability to ban products from the market, prohibit the operation of manufacturing facilities and effect recalls of products from customer locations. We believe that CNS is currently in compliance with applicable FDA regulations. FDA regulations classify medical devices into three categories that determine the degree of regulatory control to which the manufacturer of the device is subject. In general, Class I devices involve compliance with labeling and record keeping requirements and are subject to other general controls. Class II devices are subject to performance standards in addition to general controls. Class III devices are those devices, usually invasive, for which pre-market approval (as distinct from pre-market notification) is required before commercial marketing to assure product safety and effectiveness. Nasal dilators, such as our Breathe Right nasal strips, have been classified by the FDA as Class I devices. Before a new medical device can be introduced into the market, the manufacturer generally must obtain FDA clearance through either a 510(k) pre-market notification or a pre-market approval application (“PMA”). A 510(k) clearance will be granted if the submitted data establish that the proposed device is “substantially equivalent” to a legally marketed Class I or II medical device, or to a Class III medical device for which the FDA has not called for PMAs. The PMA process can be expensive, uncertain and lengthy, frequently requiring from one to several years from the date the PMA is accepted. In addition to requiring clearance for new products, FDA rules may require a filing and waiting period prior to marketing modifications of existing products. We have received 510(k) pre-market notification approvals to market the Breathe Right nasal strip as a device that can (i) temporarily relieve the symptoms of nasal congestion and stuffy nose, (ii) eliminate or reduce snoring, (iii) improve nasal breathing by reducing nasal airflow resistance, and (iv) temporarily relieve breathing difficulties due to a deviated nasal septum. Our FiberChoice product is considered to be a dietary supplement and is regulated under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act as amended by the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act “DSHEA” of 1994, and under the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act. There is generally no requirement that a company obtain a license or approval from FDA before marketing dietary supplements in the United States. The FDA is currently developing regulations for certain provisions of the DSHEA that may affect the regulation of our FiberChoice product line. However, at this time, the impact of any proposed regulation on our product lines is not certain. 8 Table of Contents Sales of our products outside the United States are subject to regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country. We have selected a third party to act as an “Authorized Representative” in the European Union. We believe that we have the necessary documentation to support affixing the “CE” mark, an international symbol of quality and compliance with applicable European medical device directives, to our Breathe Right® nasal strips in Europe. We will pursue additional approvals in other jurisdictions as needed. No assurance can be given that the FDA or state or foreign regulatory agencies will give approvals or clearances for additional applications for the Breathe Right nasal strip or for any of our other products. Moreover, after clearance is given, we are required to advise the FDA and other regulatory agencies of modifications to our products. These agencies have the power to withdraw the clearance or require us to change the device or its manufacturing process or labeling, to supply additional proof of its safety and effectiveness or to recall, repair, replace or refund the cost of the medical device if it is shown to be hazardous or defective. The process of obtaining clearance to market products is costly and time-consuming and can delay the marketing and sale of our products. Furthermore, federal, state and foreign regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of medical devices and other products are subject to future change. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such changes might have on our business. We are also subject to substantial federal, state and local regulation regarding occupational health and safety, environmental protection, hazardous substance control, waste management and disposal, among others. Patents, Trademarks and Proprietary Rights We have registered trademarks, own several patents and pending patent applications, and have a number of patents through licenses which are used in connection with our business. Some of these patents and licenses cover significant product formulations, methods and designs for our current and possible future products. We believe our trademarks are important as protection for CNS’ image in the marketplace. Our success is and will continue to be dependent upon the existence of and ability to protect our trademarks, patents and licensed patents and we intend to take such steps as are necessary to protect our intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that our technology and proprietary rights will not be challenged on the grounds that our products infringe on patents, copyrights or other proprietary information owned or claimed by others, or that others will not successfully utilize part or all of our technology without compensation to CNS. Nor can there be any assurance that others will not attempt to challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents and licensed patents on the basis of prior art or introduce competitive products. In addition to seeking patent protection for its products, we also intend to protect our proprietary technologies and proprietary information as trade secrets. Through license agreements CNS has acquired the exclusive worldwide rights to manufacture and sell nasal strips. Specifically, we have the exclusive right pursuant to those license agreements to manufacture, sell and otherwise practice any invention claimed in the licensors’ patents issued in any country, including those that issue on pending applications. We are obligated to pay royalties to the licensors based on sales of the products typically including certain minimum royalty amounts in order to maintain our exclusive rights. The original licensor of nasal strip technology has filed patent applications with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office seeking patent protection for different aspects of the nasal strip technology. Seven of these patent applications have resulted in issued patents in the United States, including one with claims that cover the single-body construction of the nasal strip. The licensor of nasal strip technology also has one patent application which is currently pending. In addition, that licensor has obtained patent protection on the nasal strip in several foreign countries and has various applications pending which seek further patent 9 Table of Contents protection in these and a number of additional countries. The licensor of the mentholated vapor strip technology has filed several patent applications with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office as well as international patent offices resulting in both issued and pending applications. In addition to the patents and patent applications pending in the U.S. mentioned above, we have filed corresponding patent applications seeking protection in several foreign countries to protect our intellectual property rights related to the nasal strip. We have one owned U.S. patent and other U.S. and international patents pending seeking patent protection for various aspects of the chewable fiber product. Although we believe that our owned and licensed patents will limit the ability of others to introduce competitive products in the United States, there can be no assurance that the patents on the nasal strip and the chewable fiber tablet will effectively prevent the development of competitive products or that we will have sufficient resources to pursue enforcement of any patents issued. We do, however, intend to aggressively enforce our patents. In order to enforce any patents issued, we may have to engage in litigation which may result in substantial expense and counterclaims against CNS. Any adverse outcome of such litigation could have a negative impact on our business. We have engaged in litigation to enforce our patent rights relating to the Breathe Right nasal strip. In 1999, CNS brought a suit in federal district court to enforce one of the licensed nasal strip patents containing the broadest claims and providing the most comprehensive protection. In the course of this suit, the defendant requested reexamination in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (the “Patent Office”) of our primary licensed patent. On September 29, 2000, the Patent Office issued an Office Action in Reexamination and rejected certain of the claims. Other claims that were not subject to reexamination remain in effect. We have joined the licensor, Creative Integration & Design, Inc., in the exercise of our rights to contest the action of the Patent Office and have provided reasons that we believe establish that the claims should not have been rejected. CNS and its licensor are also seeking to amend certain claims to provide us with additional protection under the patent. The final outcome of the reexamination by the Patent Office is therefore uncertain. Although an adverse ruling from the Patent Office would narrow the protection available for nasal dilators and limit the breadth of the our patent protection, we believe that our current portfolio of both pending patent applications and newly issued patents will enable CNS to maintain significant patent protection for our nasal strip products. On February 18, 2004, CNS, together with Creative Integration & Design, Inc., sued Silver Eagle Labs, Inc. in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota for infringement of two nasal dilator patents owned by Creative Integration & Design, Inc. and exclusively licensed to the Company. On April 13, 2006, CNS, together with Creative Integration & Design, Inc. sued JMS Labs Limited, LLC in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota for infringement of one nasal dilator patent owned by Creative Integration & Design, Inc. and exclusively licensed to the Company. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” CNS has registered its Breathe Right and FiberChoice trademarks in the United States and in several foreign countries and is seeking further registration of those trademarks and other trademarks. Employees At April 28, 2006, we had 58 full-time employees and 12 part-time employees, of whom 17 were engaged in operations, 23 in general administration, and 30 in marketing and sales. There are no unions representing CNS’ employees. Relations with its employees are believed to be positive and there are no pending or threatened labor employment disputes or work interruptions. 10 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY The following table sets forth the names and ages of the Company’s current Executive Officers together with all positions and offices held with the Company by such executive officers. Officers are appointed to serve until the meeting of the Board of Directors following the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders and until their successors have been elected and have qualified. Name and Age Office Daniel E. Cohen (54) Chairman of the Board and Director Marti Morfitt (48) President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Samuel Reinkensmeyer (45) Vice President of Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary John J. Keppeler (44) Vice President of Worldwide Sales Linda Kollofski (53) Vice President of Domestic Marketing Larry R. Muma (55) Vice President of Operations Susan Horvath (47) Vice President and Team Leader of International Nicole Strait (35) Vice President of Human Resources Daniel E. Cohen has served as the Company’s Chairman of the Board since 1993 and has served as a director of the Company since its formation in 1982. Mr. Cohen also served as the Company’s Chief Executive Officer from 1989 to June 2001 and as Treasurer from 1982 to March 1999. Mr. Cohen, a founder of the Company, is a medical doctor and board-certified neurologist. Marti Morfitt has served as the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer since June 2001 and its President and Chief Operating Officer from March 1998 to June 2001. Ms. Morfitt has served as a director of the Company since 1998. From September 1982 to February 1998, Ms. Morfitt served in a series of positions of increasing responsibility with The Pillsbury Company, a Minneapolis-based manufacturer and distributor of food products, most recently serving from May 1997 to February 1998 as Vice-President, Meals, and from February 1994 to May 1997 as Vice-President, Green Giant Brands. She also serves as a director of Graco, Inc., a Minneapolis-based manufacturer of fluid handling systems, and as a director of Intrawest Corporation, a Vancouver-based developer and operator of ski and golf resorts. Samuel Reinkensmeyer has served as the Company’s Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer since October 2003 and Secretary since May 2006. From March 2000 until joining the Company, Mr. Reinkensmeyer was employed by ValueVision Media Inc., a television and Internet retailer which owns and operates ShopNBC and ShopNBC.com serving most recently as its Senior Vice President of Finance and Investor Relations. From August 1988 to February 2000, he served in various financial positions at The Pillsbury Company, most recently as Finance Director, Pillsbury North America. Previously, Mr. Reinkensmeyer worked for Citicorp and PriceWaterhouse. John J. Keppeler has served as the Company’s Vice President of Worldwide Sales since August of 1999 and has served as the Company’s Vice President of Sales from 1998 to 1999. From November of 1986 to June of 1998, Mr. Keppeler served in a series of sales and customer marketing positions of increasing responsibility with The Pillsbury Company, a Minneapolis-based manufacturer and distributor of food products, most recently serving as Director of Category & Customer Development for the Green Giant and Progresso businesses. 11 Table of Contents Linda Kollofski has served as the Company’s Vice President of Domestic Marketing since February of 2004 and as Vice President of New Business Development from November of 2002 to January of 2004. Prior to joining the Company in 2002, Ms. Kollofski was principal of Linda K. Consulting, Inc. from October of 1994 to October of 2002. Ms. Kollofski provided marketing expertise to various businesses including Haagen-Daz, Totino’s and Green Giant as well as to Telex Communications, Hazelden Foundation publishing business and the Company’s FiberChoice brand. Previously, Ms. Kollofski served in senior marketing and new business development positions with the Hazelden Foundation, Dow Brands, Pillsbury and Munsingwear. Larry R. Muma has served as the Company’s Vice President of Operations since January of 2001. From May of 2000 to December of 2000, Mr. Muma served as Director of Supply Chain for Novartis, Inc., a worldwide manufacturer and distributor of health care and pharmaceutical products. From February of 1992 to April of 2000, Mr. Muma served in various operations positions of increasing responsibility with The Pillsbury Company, a Minneapolis-based manufacturer and distributor of food products, serving from February 1994 to April of 1999 as Vice President of Operations for Pillsbury North America and most recently from April of 1999 to April of 2000 as Vice President of Operations Frozen Division. Mr. Muma worked for PepsiCo from 1976 to 1992, serving most recently as its Vice President of International Technical Services. Susan Horvath has served as the Company’s Vice President and Team Leader of International since April of 2005. From September 1999 to April 2005, Ms. Horvath has served in a variety of roles with the Company, including Director of Financial Planning and Analysis from September 2002 to April 2005. Prior to joining CNS in 1999, Ms. Horvath was the senior finance manager for the advertising and sales promotion department of The Pillsbury Company, a Minneapolis-based manufacturer and distributor of food products. Previously Ms. Horvath worked for Coopers and Lybrand. Nicole Strait has served as the Company’s Vice President of Human Resources since March of 2005. Prior to joining the Company, from November 2002 to March 2005, Ms. Strait was with The J.M. Smucker Company/International Multifoods Corporation, a manufacturer and distributor of food products, most recently employed as its Director, Human Resources. From May 2000 to October 2002, Ms. Strait held various human resources positions with SimonDelivers.com, Inc., a Minneapolis-based online grocery shopping and grocery delivery company. From January 1996 to May 2000, Ms. Strait served in various human resources positions of increasing responsibility with The Pillsbury Company, a Minneapolis-based manufacturer and distributor of food products. Previously, Ms. Strait worked for Cargill. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Statements We make written and oral statements from time to time regarding our business and prospects, such as projections of future performance, statements of management’s plans and objectives, forecasts of market trends, and other matters that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Statements containing the words or phrases “will likely result,” “are expected to,” “will continue,” “is anticipated,” “estimates,” “projects,” “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “target,” “goal,” “plans,” “objective,” “should” or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which may appear in documents, reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, and written or oral presentations made by our authorized officers or other representatives. For such statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 12 Table of Contents Our future results, including results related to forward-looking statements, involve a number of risks and uncertainties. No assurance can be given that the results reflected in any forward-looking statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of us speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made. We do not undertake any obligation to update or keep current either (i) any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of such statement, or (ii) the important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or which are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement which may be made by or on behalf of us. In addition to other matters identified or described by us from time to time in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, there are several important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results that are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement that may be made by or on behalf of us. Some of these important factors include the following: We depend upon sales of our Breathe Right nasal strip for the majority of our revenues. Sales from our Breathe Right nasal strips accounted for 76.4%, 79.7% and 77.0% of our revenues during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As a result, our success is substantially dependent upon the success of our Breathe Right nasal strip products. If we are unable to successfully create sustained demand for our Breathe Right nasal strip products and introduce new Breathe Right nasal strip products to generate additional sales, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Effective marketing and advertising drive sales of Breathe Right nasal strips and therefore, our success will also depend significantly on our ability to effectively market our Breathe Right nasal strips to consumers. Further, higher than expected manufacturing, marketing and distribution costs, mild cold and flu seasons, lower than expected customer acceptance of new products and competitive forces may require us to alter our pricing or marketing structure in a manner that could have a material and adverse effect on us or otherwise adversely affect our sales of Breathe Right nasal strip products. Our business is subject to seasonality that may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate materially and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Sales of our Breathe Right products are seasonal in nature with consumer demand generally higher during the cold and flu season and dependent upon the severity of the cold/flu season. The cold and flu season corresponds with the third and four quarters of each of our fiscal years. Therefore, we will typically experience periods of increased revenues during the third and fourth quarter. Additionally, because consumer demand for our Breathe Right nasal strip is tied to the severity of the cold/flu season, our revenues from sales of our Breathe Right products will be adversely affected by a mild cold/flu season. However, because the length and severity of the season is difficult to anticipate, we cannot estimate the fluctuation of our sales from quarter to quarter in a fiscal year or the impact of the cold/flu season year to year. If our operating results are below financial analysts’ or investors’ expectations due to seasonality factors, the market price of our common stock may decline. Our future growth will depend in part upon our ability to develop and achieve sales of new products. One element of our growth strategy is focused on successful development of new products, including new products under the Breathe Right and FiberChoice brand names. We may develop new products internally or through acquisition of products or product rights from other companies. We cannot assure you that we will successfully develop any new products. Further, in developing new products, we will incur additional research and development and marketing expenses and, if acquired from another company, additional expense associated with acquisition and integration of these products into our existing business. Our success in this area will depend upon cost effective development of new products. Revenues, if any, which we generate from new products may not be sufficient to recoup the expenses we will incur in the 13 Table of Contents development of new products. Consumers may be slow to accept our new products, if at all, and therefore, we cannot assure you that we will generate sales from any new products we develop. If we cannot successfully develop new products and achieve sales of our new products, our financial performance and results of operations will be adversely affected. If our domestic or international intellectual property rights are not adequately protected, others may offer products similar to ours which could depress our product selling prices and gross profit margins or result in loss of market share. We believe that protecting our proprietary technology is important to our success and competitive positioning. In addition to common law intellectual property rights, we rely on patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, know-how, license agreements and contractual provisions to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. However, these legal means afford us only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights to keep any advantages we may have over our competitors. Others may independently develop the same or similar technologies incorporated into our products, including technologies relating to external nasal dilator products, even if these technologies are the subject of our patents, patent applications or licenses. We have a license to the exclusive worldwide rights to manufacture and sell nasal strips in its various versions. We own the patents and pending patents relating to the chewable fiber tablet. Although we believe that our owned and licensed patents will limit the ability of others to introduce competitive products in the United States, there can be no assurance that the patents on the nasal strip or the chewable fiber tablet, or any additional patents on these or other products that may be issued in the future, if any, will effectively prevent the development or sale of competitive products or that we will have sufficient resources to pursue enforcement of any patents issued. Additionally, we have engaged in litigation to enforce our patent rights relating to our nasal strip technologies. In 1999, we brought suit in federal district court to enforce our rights under U.S. Patent No. 5,533,499 (the “ ‘499 Patent”), one of the licensed nasal strip patents containing the broadest claims relating to the nasal strip. In the course of this suit, the defendant requested reexamination in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (the “Patent Office”) of the claims of the ‘499 Patent and on January 21, 2005, we received a determination from the Patent Office that the ‘499 Patent has significant allowable claims. We are seeking, with the licensor of the ‘499 Patent, to amend certain claims of the ‘499 Patent to provide us with additional protection under the ‘499 Patent. We believe that the allowable claims of the ‘499 Patent, if and when reissued, will enable us to maintain significant patent protection for our nasal strip products. In February 2004, we, together with Creative Integration & Design, Inc., sued Silver Eagle Labs, Inc. (“Silver Eagle”) in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota for infringement of two nasal dilator patents owned by Creative Integration & Design, Inc. and exclusively licensed to us. The two patents at issue are U.S. Patent No. 6,318,362 (the “ ‘362 Patent”) and U.S. Patent No. 3,533,503 (the “ ‘503 Patent”). The suit seeks injunctive relief, damages, enhanced damages for willful infringement, attorneys’ fees and costs. Silver Eagle has counterclaimed for a declaration that the ‘362 Patent and ‘503 Patent are invalid and not infringed and asks for its attorneys’ fees and costs. In the course of this suit, Silver Eagle requested reexamination of the ‘362 Patent and the ‘503 Patent. In response to the reexamination by the Patent Office, on November 29, 2004, the Court issued an order staying our suit against Silver Eagle pending the reexamination. While the Patent Office has indicated that it has completed its reexamination process with respect to the ‘362 Patent, with the claims of this Patent not being altered or amended in any way, the Patent Office has not formally reissued the ‘362 Patent. An adverse ruling from the Patent Office would narrow the protection available for nasal dilators, limit the breadth of our patent protection and may increase the likelihood that competitors will introduce competitive external nasal dilator products. On April 13, 2006, we, together with Creative Integration & Design, Inc., sued JMS Labs Limited, LLC (“JMS”) in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota for infringement of the ‘362 Patent. The suit seeks injunctive relief, damages, enhanced damages for willful infringement, attorneys’ fees and costs. 14 Table of Contents Further, our competitors, many of which have substantial resources and may make substantial investments in competing technologies, may apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit, or interfere with our ability to manufacture or market our products. While we do not believe that any of our products or processes interfere with the rights of others, third parties may nonetheless assert patent infringement claims against us in the future. Additional costly litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us, to protect trade secrets or “know-how” we own, to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others or to determine the ownership, scope, or validity of our proprietary rights and the rights of others. Any claim of infringement against us may involve significant liabilities to third parties, could require us to seek licenses from third parties, and could prevent us from manufacturing, selling, or using our products. The occurrence of this litigation, or the effect of an adverse determination in any of this type of litigation, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, the laws of some of the countries in which our products are or may be sold may not protect our products and intellectual property to the same extent as the United States or at all. Our failure to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our markets are highly competitive and many of our competitors have substantial resources. Competition may result in price reductions, lower gross profits and loss of market share. We face significant competition in developing and selling our nasal decongestant products and dietary fiber supplement products in both the U.S. and in foreign markets. Our Breathe Right nasal strip, Breathe Right Snore Relief throat spray and Breathe Right Snore Relief Throat Rinse compete in the consumer market with decongestant products and other cold, allergy and sinus relief products consisting primarily of pharmaceutical products sold over the counter, nasal sprays and other external nasal dilators, throat sprays, herbs, supplements and homeopathic remedies. Additionally, we compete with prescription nasal decongestants. We compete with these other products on the basis of numerous factors including brand recognition, product quality, efficacy, price and product availability at the retail store. If consumers perceive any product that competes with ours as more effective, more reliable, less expensive or having other advantages, the demand for our products could decrease. Although we are currently the leading manufacturer of external nasal dilation products, Schering Plough Corp. entered the market in September 1998 with an external nasal dilation device. In May 2003, Aso Corp. announced it was acquiring the marketing, sales and distribution of Schering Plough’s nasal strip device. Other companies have also entered the nasal dilation market with private label products. Our FiberChoice product competes with Metamucil® manufactured by Proctor and Gamble, Citrucel® manufactured by GlaxoSmithKline, Benefiber® manufactured by Norvartis and FiberCon® manufactured by Wyeth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and have greater financial, technical, research, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources than we do. Additionally, large, well-known, well-financed companies may enter into our markets. Increased competition from other companies may force us to reduce the prices of our products, decrease our gross profit margins, increase discounts to distributors and result in loss of our market share and could require increased spending by us on research and development and sales and marketing. We rely on third-party manufacturers for our products. Our Breathe Right nasal strip is manufactured by a single-source manufacturer. The raw materials for our Breathe Right nasal strip are being supplied by a single-source supplier. Any failure of these parties to deliver our products or raw materials would cause delays, increase our costs or prevent us from completing customer orders. 15 Table of Contents Our Breathe Right nasal strips are manufactured for us by a single manufacturer using a unique raw material supplied by a single supplier, 3M Company. Other raw materials for the nasal strip are available from multiple suppliers. Our other Breathe Right brand products and our FiberChoice products are manufactured for us by a limited number of manufacturers using raw materials supplied by multiple suppliers. If 3M Company is unable to ship the critical raw materials for our Breathe Right nasal strip, our manufacturers would be unable to manufacture our products, and therefore CNS would be unable to ship products to our customers and distributors. If the price of raw materials increases for any reason, or if our suppliers are unable or unwilling to deliver raw materials, we may have to find an alternative source, which could result in interruptions, increased costs, delays, loss of sales and quality control problems. Further, if our manufacturers were unable to manufacture our products for any reason, our customers and distributors would experience delays in receipt of orders of our product. The termination or interruption of any of these relationships, or the failure of these manufacturers or suppliers to supply products or materials consistent with our requirements as to quality, quantity and timeliness, likely would cause shortages of our products, delays in fulfilling orders for our products and harm our reputation and our business by causing delays, loss of sales, increases in costs and lower gross profit margin. Our sales will decline and our business will be materially harmed if there is any loss of any significant retailer or any reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from any significant retailer. Our retail customers include national chains of mass merchants, drug stores and grocery stores, warehouse clubs and regional and independent stores in the retail channels. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, Wal-Mart Corporation accounted for approximately 31%, 31% and 32% of our sales, respectively. The loss of this customer or any other large retailer would have a negative impact on our operating results. While we would attempt to replace the lost sales through other retail outlets, we cannot be certain that we would be able to replace any lost sales. Because we typically do not enter into long-term contracts with our customers but rather fulfill demand for our products upon individual sales orders, our customers could cease buying our products from us at any time and for any reason. The loss of any major retailer would disrupt distribution of our products and result in a loss of revenue. If a significant number of our customers cease purchasing products from us, our business would be materially and adversely harmed. Further, any significant reduction or delay in the historical level of orders from our customers, cancellation of orders from any significant retailer or any significant decrease in our retail display space in any of these customers’ stores would have a negative impact on our operating results. We sell a significant portion of our products internationally, which exposes us to risks associated with foreign operations. We sell a significant amount of our products to customers outside the United States, particularly in Europe and Asia. International sales accounted for 15%, 14%, and 15% of our revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We expect that shipments to international customers, including customers in Europe and Asia, will continue to account for a significant portion of our net sales. Sales outside the United States involve the following risks, among others: • foreign governments may impose tariffs, quotas and taxes; • the demand for our products will depend, in part, on local economic health; • expense in developing advertising and marketing campaigns targeted to consumers in foreign countries; • political and economic instability may reduce demand for our products; • potentially limited intellectual property protection in certain countries may limit our recourse against infringing products or cause us to refrain from selling our products in certain markets; • regulatory restrictions may require additional qualification or testing, resulting in further cost and delay in reaching the related markets; 16 Table of Contents • we may face difficulties in managing our international distributors, customers or service partners; • the burden and cost of complying with a variety of foreign laws; • we may be exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • our contracts with foreign distributors and resellers cannot fully protect us against political and economic instability; • we may face difficulties in collecting receivables; and • we may not be able to control our international distributors’ efforts on our behalf. While most of our sales are made in U.S. dollars, some are conducted in the local currencies of foreign countries. These foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars for the balance sheet accounts using current exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and for revenue and expense accounts using a weighted average exchange rate during the fiscal year. Gains and losses resulting from transactions denominated in foreign currencies are included in our consolidated statements of operations. Currency fluctuations may adversely affect our financial performance and also may increase the relative price of our product in foreign markets and thereby could also cause our products to become less affordable or less price competitive than those of foreign manufacturers. These risks associated with foreign operations may have a material adverse effect on our revenue from, or costs associated with, international sales. Our business and our products are subject to governmental regulation, which could have a significant negative effect upon our business. Nasal dilators, such as our Breathe Right nasal strips, have been classified by the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) as Class I medical devices. Our Breathe Right nasal strip products are subject to extensive regulation regarding manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, importation, sale and storage by various federal agencies, including the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”), the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Environmental Protection Agency and by various agencies of the states, localities and foreign countries in which our products are manufactured, distributed and sold. Our FiberChoice dietary fiber supplement is in a category of products commonly referred to for regulatory purposes as “dietary supplements.” Under the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act (“DSHEA”), dietary supplements are not subject to pre-market approval by the FDA. However, the manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising, distribution and sale of dietary supplement products is subject to regulation by federal, state and local governmental agencies, including the FDA and the FTC. Among other matters, regulation by the FDA and FTC is concerned with product safety and claims made with respect to a product’s ability to provide health-related benefits. Our third-party manufacturers are also subject to governmental regulation in the manufacture of our products, including compliance with rules regarding packaging, labeling and manufacturing practices and equivalent state and foreign regulations. Our manufacturers are subject to periodic inspection to determine if they are complying with the rules regarding packaging, labeling and manufacturing. Furthermore, we also are subject to a variety of other regulations in various foreign markets, including regulations pertaining to import/export regulations. To the extent we decide to commence or expand operations in additional countries, government regulations in those countries may prevent or delay entry into or expansion of operations in those markets. In addition, our ability to sustain satisfactory levels of sales in our markets is dependent in significant part on our ability to introduce additional products into the markets. However, government regulations in both our domestic and international markets can delay or prevent the introduction, or require the reformulation or withdrawal, of some of our products. Our failure or the failure of our manufacturers to comply with local, state, federal or foreign regulations could lead to the imposition of significant civil and criminal fines, product recalls, detentions, seizures, injunctions and criminal prosecutions, suspension of product sales or manufacturing, changes in product design or formulation, or changes in product labeling, packaging or advertising or require us to take 17 Table of Contents other corrective action, any of which would materially adversely affect our business. Further, violation of these regulations or the assertion of a violation of these regulations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and the reputation of our products, which could materially damage our business. Further, the regulatory environment in which we operate is continually changing. Future changes in regulations or enforcement policies could impose more stringent requirements on us, compliance with which could adversely affect our business. These changes could also prove beneficial to our competitors and thus, adversely affect our business. In addition, regulations of the FDA and state and foreign laws and regulations depend heavily on administrative interpretations. We cannot assure you that future interpretations made by the FDA, or other regulatory authorities, with possible retroactive effect, will not adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. It is not possible to assess the likelihood that the laws affecting our products and business will change, or to predict whether such changes, if they occur, will have a material effect on us. Our business of the manufacturing, marketing, and sale of our products involves the risk of liability claims and such claims could seriously harm our business, particularly if our insurance coverage is inadequate. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, production, marketing and sale of our products. Like other participants in these markets, we may from time to time be involved in lawsuits, claims and proceedings alleging product liability and related claims such as negligence. If product liability claims become substantial, our brands could be damaged significantly, thereby harming our business. We may be required to pay substantial damage awards as a result of any successful product liability claims. Any product liability claim against us, whether with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, and divert the time, attention, and resources of our management. As a result of our exposure to product liability claims, we currently carry product liability insurance covering our products with policy limits per occurrence and in the aggregate that we have deemed to be sufficient. We cannot predict, however, whether this insurance is sufficient, or if not, whether we will be able to obtain sufficient insurance to cover the risks associated with our business or whether such insurance will be available at premiums that are commercially reasonable. In addition, these insurance policies must be renewed annually. Although we have been able to obtain product liability insurance, such insurance may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful claim against us or settlement by us in excess of our insurance coverage or our inability to maintain insurance in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. If we are required to, or voluntarily, recall our products, our brands and our business could be materially harmed. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration and similar governmental authorities in other countries in which our products are sold, have the authority to request and, in some cases, require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of product functionality, manufacturing errors or design defects. Any recall of product would divert managerial and financial resources, harm our brands and reputation with our customers and damage our business. Fluctuations in our future operating results may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. We have experienced fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and we expect those fluctuations to continue due to a variety of factors. Some of the factors that influence our quarterly operating results include: 18 Table of Contents • seasonality of demand for our products; • severity of the cold and flu season; • timing of the cold and flu season in the United States, Europe and Asia; • the number and mix of products sold in the quarter; • the availability and cost of materials; • timing, costs and benefits of new product introductions; • customer order size and shipment timing; • promotions by ourselves or competitors, and the timing of the advertising and promotion expense; • the impact to the marketplace of competitive products and pricing; and • the timing and level of operating expenses. Because of these factors, our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and are likely to vary in the future. If our operating results are below financial analysts’ or investors’ expectations, the market price of our common stock may fall abruptly and significantly. We are dependent on key personnel. Our future success depends, in significant part, upon the continued service and performance of our senior management and other key personnel, in particular Marti Morfitt, our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of Ms. Morfitt’s services could impair our ability to effectively manage our company and to carry out our business plan. We have an employment agreement with Ms. Morfitt that provides that Ms. Morfitt will serve as our Chief Executive Officer and that either party may terminate Ms. Morfitt’s employment at any time with or without cause. However, if we terminate Ms. Morfitt’s employment without cause, we would be required to make specified payments to her as described in her employment agreement. The other members of our management team also have significant experience in our industry. The loss of any member of our senior management could likewise impair our ability to effectively manage our company and carry out our business plan. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our executive officers. In addition, competition for skilled employees in our industry is intense. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified managerial, technical and sales personnel. Our inability to retain or attract qualified personnel could have a significant negative effect and materially harm our business and financial condition. Our stock price may be volatile and a stockholder’s investment could decline in value. Our stock price has fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly, making it difficult for an investor to resell shares or to resell shares at an attractive price. The market prices for securities of companies with relatively small capitalization, like us, have historically been highly volatile. Future events concerning us or our competitors could cause such volatility, including: • actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; • new innovations in existing products or new products introduced by us or our competitors; • developments concerning proprietary rights; • changes in senior management; • investor perception of us and our industry; • general economic and market conditions including market uncertainty; • national or global political events; and • public confidence in the securities markets and regulation by or of the securities markets. In addition, the stock market is subject to price and volume fluctuations that affect the market prices for companies in general, and small-capitalization, high-technology companies in particular, which are often unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. In addition to fluctuations unrelated to our financial performance, our failure to meet expectations of financial analysts and investors will likely cause a decline in the price of our common stock. 19 Table of Contents Future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market may negatively affect our stock price. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, could have a significant negative effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants, the number of shares outstanding of our common stock could increase substantially. This increase, in turn, could dilute future earnings per share, if any, and could depress the market value of our common stock. Dilution and potential dilution, the availability of a large amount of shares for sale, and the possibility of additional issuances and sales of our common stock may negatively affect both the trading price of our common stock and the liquidity of our common stock. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we would deem appropriate. Provisions of Delaware law, our bylaws and other agreements may deter a change of control of us and may have a possible negative effect on our stock price. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our bylaws and other agreements may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us, including: • the provisions of Delaware law relating to business combinations and control share acquisitions; • the provisions of our bylaws regarding the business properly brought before stockholders; • the right of our board of directors to establish more than one class or series of shares and to fix the relative rights and preferences of any such different classes or series; and • the provisions of our stock option plans allowing for the acceleration of vesting or payments of awards granted under the plans in the event of specified events that result in a “change in control” and provisions of agreements with our executive officers requiring payments if their employment is terminated and there is a “change in control.” These measures could discourage or prevent a takeover of us or changes in our management, even if an acquisition or such changes would be beneficial to our stockholders. This may have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 