ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements The Timberland Company (the “Company”) wishes to take advantage of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which provide a “safe harbor” for certain written and oral forward-looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective information. Prospective information is based on management’s then current expectations or forecasts. Such information is subject to the risk that such expectations or forecasts, or the assumptions used in making such expectations or forecasts, may become inaccurate. The discussion below identifies important factors that could affect the Company’s actual results and could cause such results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. The risks included below are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect the Company’s business and financial performance. Moreover, the Company operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on the Company’s business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. As discussed herein, investors should be aware of certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could affect our actual results and could cause such results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. Statements containing the words “may,” “assumes,” “forecasts,” “positions,” “predicts,” “strategy,” “will,” “expects,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “budgets,” “potential,” “continue,” “target” and variations thereof, and other statements contained in this Annual Report regarding matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on current expectations only and actual future results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements due to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. The Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Risks Related to Our Business We operate in a highly competitive industry. We market our products in highly competitive environments. Many of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater resources for marketing, research and development and other purposes. These competitors include athletic and other footwear companies, branded apparel companies and private labels established by retailers. Furthermore, efforts by our competitors to dispose of their excess inventory could put downward pressure on retail prices and could cause our wholesale customers to redirect some of their purchases away from our products. We may have difficulty matching our products and inventory levels to consumer preferences and demand. As we continue to market established products and develop new products, our success depends in large part on our ability to anticipate, understand and react to changing consumer demands. We believe that our more fashion-focused products are more susceptible to changing fashion trends and consumer preferences than our other products. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. The success of our products and marketing strategy will also depend on a favorable reception by our wholesale customers. We cannot ensure that any existing products or brands will continue to be favorably received by consumers or our wholesale customers, nor can we ensure that any new products or brands that we introduce will be favorably received by consumers or our wholesale customers. Any failure on our part to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and leave us with unsold inventory or missed opportunities. If that occurs, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which may harm our business. 10 Table of Contents At the same time, our focus on the management of inventory may result, from time to time, in not having an adequate supply of products to meet consumer demand and cause us to lose sales. We may be unable to execute key strategic initiatives. We continue to take actions to restructure our business operations to maximize operating effectiveness and efficiency and to reduce costs. Achievement of the targeted benefits depends in part on our ability to identify, develop and execute strategies and initiatives appropriately and effectively. We cannot assure you that we will achieve the targeted benefits under these programs within a targeted timeframe or within targeted costs or that the benefits, even if achieved, will be adequate. We conduct business outside the United States, which exposes us to foreign currency, import restrictions, taxes, duties and other risks. We manufacture and source a majority of our products outside the United States. Our products are sold in the U.S. and internationally. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, including, among other risks, foreign currency exchange rate risks, import restrictions, anti-dumping investigations, political or labor disturbances, expropriation and acts of war. Additionally, as a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. The Obama Administration continues to propose legislation that would fundamentally change how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on their global income. It is possible that these or other changes in the U.S. tax laws could increase our U.S. income tax liability and adversely affect our profitability. On October 7, 2006, the European Commission imposed definitive duties on leather upper footwear originating from China and Vietnam and imported into European Member States. These duties have been in effect since then with a final 16.5% rate for China sourced footwear and a 10% rate for Vietnam sourced footwear. Although the European Commission has informally confirmed that the duties will not be further extended and, therefore, will no longer be imposed beginning on April 1, 2011, we will continue to monitor developments in this case and others like it to the extent they arise. Although we pay for the purchase and manufacture of our products primarily in U.S. dollars, we are routinely subject to currency rate movements on non-U.S. denominated assets, liabilities and income as we sell goods in local currencies through our foreign subsidiaries. We cannot assure you that we will be protected from future changes in foreign currency exchange rates that may impact our financial condition or performance. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. Foreign currency fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We engage in hedging activities to mitigate the impact of foreign currencies on our financial results (see Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, entitled “Derivatives,” in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K). Our hedging activities are designed to reduce, but cannot and will not eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. Factors that could impact the effectiveness of our hedging activities include accuracy of sales forecasts, volatility of currency markets, and the availability of hedging instruments. Because the hedging activities are designed to reduce volatility, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger U.S. dollar, but they also reduce the positive impact of a weaker U.S. dollar. Our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. The degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. We depend on independent manufacturers to produce the majority of our products, and our business could suffer if we need to replace manufacturers or suppliers or find additional capacity. During 2010, we manufactured approximately 12% of our footwear unit volume. Independent manufacturers and licensees in Asia, Europe, Mexico, Africa and South and Central America produced the remainder of our footwear products and all of our apparel and accessories products. Independent manufacturers in China, Vietnam, Thailand and India produced approximately 88% of our 2010 footwear unit volume. Three of these manufacturing partners together produced approximately 60% of our 2010 footwear volume. If a manufacturer 11 Table of Contents is unable to manufacture or ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards for any reason, we could miss customer delivery date requirements for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers and import quota capacity. Any long-term economic downturn could cause our suppliers to fail to make and ship orders we placed. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain current relationships with our current manufacturers or locate additional manufacturers that can meet our requirements or manufacture on terms that are acceptable to us. Any delays, interruption or increased costs in the supply of materials or manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer and consumer demand for our products and, consequently, have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, these independent manufacturers agree to comply with a code of conduct and other environmental, health and safety standards for the benefit of workers. However, from time to time, such manufacturers may fail to comply with such standards or applicable local law. Significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more of such manufacturers could harm our reputation and, as a result, have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The loss of one or more of our major suppliers for materials may interrupt our supplies. We depend on a limited number of key sources for leather, our principal material, and other proprietary materials used in our products. In 2010, seven suppliers provided, in the aggregate, approximately 80% of our leather purchases. Three of these suppliers provided approximately 50% of our leather purchases in 2010. While historically we have not experienced significant difficulties in obtaining leather or other materials in quantities sufficient for our operations, there have been significant changes in the prices for these materials. In 2010, due to increased demand for leather, we experienced some capacity constraints. Our gross profit margins are adversely affected to the extent that we cannot increase the selling prices of our products proportionately with increases in the costs of leather and other materials. Any significant unanticipated increase or decrease in the prices of these commodities could materially affect our results of operations. Increasing oil-related product costs, such as manufacturing and transportation costs, could also adversely impact our gross margins. Our business could be adversely impacted by any disruption to our supply chain. Independent manufacturers manufacture a majority of our products outside of our principal sales markets, which requires us to transport our products via third parties over large geographic distances. Delays in or increases in the cost of the manufacture, shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of materials, labor, transportation, or other factors could adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our profit margins. The cost of fuel is a significant component in manufacturing and transportation costs, so increases in the price of oil-related products could adversely affect our profit margins. Additionally, if contract manufacturers of our products or other participants in our supply chain experience difficulty obtaining financing to purchase raw materials or to finance general working capital needs due to volatility or disruption in the capital and credit markets, we may experience delays or non-delivery of shipments of our products. Our business is dependent upon our customers and their financial health. Our financial success is directly related to the willingness of our wholesale customers to continue to purchase our products. We do not typically have long-term contracts with customers. Sales to our customers are generally on an order-by-order basis and are subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling by the customers. Failure to fill customers’ orders in a timely manner could harm our relationships with our customers. Furthermore, if any of our major customers experience a significant downturn in its business, or fails to remain committed to our products or brands, then these customers may reduce or discontinue purchases from us, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents We sell our products to wholesale customers and extend credit based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. The financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to stop doing business with that customer or reduce our business with that customer. Our inability to collect from our customers or a cessation or reduction of sales to certain customers because of credit concerns could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our products are sold in many international markets through independent licensees, franchisees, and distributors. Failure by such parties to meet planned annual sales goals could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and it may be difficult and costly to locate an acceptable substitute. If a change in licensees, franchisees or distributors becomes necessary, we may experience increased costs, as well as substantial disruption and a resulting loss of sales and brand equity in that market. In addition, changes in the channels of distribution, such as the growth of Internet commerce and the trend toward the sale of private label products by major retailers, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business could be impacted by global capital and credit market conditions and resulting declines in consumer confidence and spending. Volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets have led to a tightening of business credit and liquidity, a contraction of consumer credit, business failures, higher unemployment, and declines in consumer confidence and spending in the United States and internationally. If global economic and financial market conditions continue to deteriorate or remain weak for an extended period of time, the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition: slower consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our products, reduced orders from customers for our products, order cancellations, lower revenues, increased inventories and lower gross margins; continued volatility in the markets and prices for commodities and raw materials we use in our products and in our supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our costs, gross margins and profitability; if customers experience declining revenues or experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase our products, this could result in reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, inability of customers to timely meet their payment obligations to us, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts, and increased bad debt expense; and if customers experience severe financial difficulty, some may become insolvent and cease business operations, which could reduce the availability of our products to consumers. Our business could be adversely impacted by the financial instability of third parties with which we do business. Distress in the financial markets has had an adverse impact on the availability of credit and liquidity resources. Continued market deterioration could jeopardize our ability to rely on and benefit from certain counterparty obligations, including those of financial institutions party to our credit agreements and derivative contracts and those of other parties with which we do business. The failure of any of these counterparties to honor their obligations to us, or the continued deterioration of the global economy, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our ability to replace such credit agreements on the same or similar terms may be limited if market and general economic conditions continue to deteriorate. We rely significantly on information technology, and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. We are heavily dependent on information technology systems, including for design, production, forecasting, ordering, manufacturing, transportation, sales, and distribution. Our ability to manage and maintain our inventory effectively and to ship and sell products to customers on a timely basis depends significantly on the reliability of these systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in product 13 Table of Contents fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, could require significant capital investments to remediate the problem, and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are converting certain internally developed and other third-party applications to an integrated enterprise resource planning, or ERP, information technology system provided by third-party vendors. This multi-year initiative began in the third quarter of 2010. While we believe the implementation of these systems will provide significant opportunity for us to make our business more responsive and efficient, such a major undertaking carries various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. These include: (i) changes in the estimated costs and anticipated benefits of a strategic business system transformation; (ii) potential disruption to our business and operations as we implement the ERP applications; (iii) the timing and uncertainty of activities related to software implementation and business transformation; (iv) our ability to utilize our new information technology systems to execute our strategies successfully; and (v) the additional risk of unforeseen issues, interruptions and costs. If we are unable to successfully implement this initiative, it may have an adverse effect on our capital resources, financial condition and results of operations and liquidity. We depend on sales forecasts which may not be accurate and may result in higher than necessary infrastructure and product investments. We base our investments in infrastructure and product, in part, on sales forecasts. We do business in highly competitive markets, and our business is affected by a variety of factors, including brand awareness, product innovations, retail market conditions, economic and other factors, changing consumer preferences, fashion trends, seasonality and weather conditions. One of our principal challenges is to predict these factors to enable us to match the production of our products with demand. If sales forecasts are not achieved, these investments could represent a higher percentage of revenue, and we may experience higher inventory levels and associated carrying costs, and decreased profit margins if we are forced to dispose of resulting excess or slow-moving inventory, all of which could adversely affect our financial performance. Declines in revenue in our retail stores could adversely affect profitability. We have made significant capital investments in opening retail stores and incur significant expenditures in operating these stores. The higher level of fixed costs related to our retail organization can adversely affect profitability, particularly in the first half of the year, as our revenue historically has been more heavily weighted to the second half of the year. Our ability to recover the investment in and expenditures of our retail organization can be adversely affected if sales at our retail stores are lower than anticipated. Our gross margin could be adversely affected if off-price sales increase as a percentage of revenue. We rely on our licensing partners to help us preserve the value of our brand. As mentioned in Part I, Item 1, we have entered into several licensing agreements which enable us to expand our brand to product categories and geographic territories in which we have not had an appreciable presence. The risks associated with our own products also apply to our licensed products. There are also any number of possible risks specific to a licensing partner’s business, including, for example, risks associated with a particular licensing partner’s ability to obtain capital, manage its labor relations, maintain relationships with its suppliers, manage its credit risk effectively, control quality and maintain relationships with its customers. Although our license agreements prohibit licensing partners from entering into licensing arrangements with certain of our competitors, generally our licensing partners are not precluded from offering, under other brands, the types of products covered by their license agreements with us. A substantial portion of sales of the licensed products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest customers. While we have significant control over our licensing partners’ products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial control over their businesses. The loss of key executives could cause our business to suffer, and control by members of the Swartz family and the anti-takeover effect of multiple classes of stock could discourage attempts to acquire us. Sidney W. Swartz, our Chairman, Jeffrey B. Swartz, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and other executives have been key to the success of our business to date. The loss or retirement of these or other key executives could adversely affect us. Sidney W. Swartz, Jeffrey B. Swartz and various trusts established for the 14 Table of Contents benefit of their families or for charitable purposes, hold approximately 73.7% of the combined voting power of our capital stock in the aggregate, enabling them to control our affairs. Members of the Swartz family will, unless they sell shares of Class B common stock that would reduce the number of shares of Class B common stock outstanding to 12.5% or less of the total number of shares of Class A and Class B common stock outstanding, have the ability, by virtue of their stock ownership, to prevent or cause a change in control of the Company. This could discourage an attempt to acquire the Company that might provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common shares. Our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a change of control that stockholders may consider favorable. Under our Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors has the ability to issue and determine the terms of preferred stock. The ability to issue preferred stock, coupled with the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law, could delay or prevent a change of control or change in management that might provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. Our inability to attract and retain qualified employees could impact our business. We compete for talented employees within our industry. We must maintain competitive compensation packages to recruit and retain qualified employees. Our failure to attract and retain qualified employees could adversely affect the sales, design and engineering of our products. Our ability to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may be limited. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks on a worldwide basis. We cannot ensure that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and proprietary rights of others. Also, we cannot ensure that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. We are also susceptible to injury from parallel trade and counterfeiting of our products. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries, including some countries in which we currently do business, may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The value of our brand, and our sales, could be diminished if we are associated with negative publicity. While our staff and third-party compliance auditors periodically visit and monitor the operations of our vendors, independent manufacturers and licensees, we do not control these vendors or independent manufacturers or their labor practices. A violation of our vendor policies, labor laws or other laws, including consumer and product safety laws, by us, such vendors or independent manufacturers, or any inaccuracy with respect to claims we may make about our business or products, including environmental and consumer and product safety claims, could interrupt or otherwise disrupt our sourcing or damage our brand image. Negative publicity, for these or other reasons, regarding our Company, brand or products, including licensed products, could adversely affect our reputation and sales. Our business is affected by seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our operating results and stock price. We experience fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. Historically, revenue in the second half of the year has exceeded revenue in the first half of the year. However, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of footwear, apparel and accessories. As a result, we may not be able to predict our quarterly sales accurately. Accordingly, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. Results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. 15 Table of Contents Our success depends on our global distribution facilities. We distribute our products to customers directly from the factory and through distribution centers located throughout the world. Our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies depends on the proper operation of our distribution facilities, the development or expansion of additional distribution capabilities, and the timely performance of services by third parties (including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities). Our distribution facilities could be interrupted by information technology problems and disasters such as earthquakes, severe weather or fires. Any significant failure in our distribution facilities could result in an adverse effect on our business. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from any adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities. Our business could be adversely affected by governmental policies and regulation. Our business is affected by changes in government and regulatory policies in the United States and in other countries. Changes in interest rates, tax laws, duties, tariffs and quotas could have a negative impact on our ability to produce and market our products at competitive prices. Our business could be adversely affected by global political and economic uncertainty. Concerns regarding acts of terrorism, the wars in Iraq, Afghanistan and the Middle East and increasing tensions between Asian countries, among other events, have created significant global economic and political uncertainties that may have material and adverse effects on consumer demand, foreign sourcing of footwear, shipping and transportation, product imports and exports and the sale of products in foreign markets. We are subject to risks in doing business in developing countries and economically and politically volatile areas. Risks Related to Our Industry We face intense competition in the worldwide footwear and apparel industry, which may impact our sales. We face a variety of competitive challenges from other domestic and foreign footwear and apparel producers, some of which may be significantly larger and more diversified and have greater financial and marketing resources than we have. We compete with these companies primarily on the basis of anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner, maintaining favorable brand recognition, developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers, providing strong and effective marketing support, creating an acceptable value proposition for retail customers, ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with manufacturers and retailers, and obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail. Increased competition in the worldwide footwear and apparel industries, including Internet-based competitors, could reduce our sales, prices and margins and adversely affect our results of operations. A downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items and retail products, which could adversely affect our sales. The industries in which we operate are cyclical. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the footwear and apparel industries, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, weather, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our products, may decline during recessionary periods and also may decline at other times when disposable income is lower. A downturn in the economies in which we, or our licensing and distributor partners, sell our products, whether in the United States or abroad, may adversely affect our sales. Our gross margin could also be adversely affected if off-price sales increase as a percentage of revenue. Retail trends could result in downward pressure on our prices. With the growing trend toward retail trade consolidation, we increasingly depend upon a reduced number of key retailers whose bargaining strength is growing. Changes in the policies of these retail trade customers, such as increased at-once ordering, limitations on access to shelf space and other conditions may result in 16 Table of Contents lower net sales. Further consolidations in the retail industry could result in price and other competition that could damage our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 