ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS FOR PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 The Timberland Company (the “Company”) wishes to take advantage of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which provides a “safe harbor” for forward-looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective information. Prospective information is based on management’s then current expectations or forecasts. Such information is subject to the risk that such expectations or forecasts, or the assumptions used in making such expectations or forecasts, may become inaccurate. The following discussion 13 Table of Contents identifies important factors that could affect the Company’s actual results and could cause such results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. The Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Risks Related to Our Business We operate in a highly competitive industry. We market our products in highly competitive environments. Many of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater resources for marketing, research and development and other purposes. These competitors include athletic and other footwear companies, branded apparel companies and private labels established by retailers. Furthermore, efforts by our footwear competitors to dispose of their excess inventory could put downward pressure on retail prices and could cause our wholesale customers to redirect some of their purchases away from our products. Our products may not appeal to consumers. As we continue to market established products and develop new products, our success depends in large part on our ability to anticipate, understand and react to changing consumer demands. We believe that our more fashion-focused boots, men’s apparel and women’s footwear products are more susceptible to changing fashion trends and consumer preferences than our other products. Consumer demand for our boot products has declined during the last two years as fashion trends have favored lower profile, casual footwear. Revenue declines associated with lower boot sales has adversely impacted our financial results and no assurances can be made that sales of our boot products will increase in the short-term or that we will be able to develop or market alternative products to mitigate the loss of such sales. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. The success of our products and marketing strategy will also depend on a favorable reception by our wholesale customers. We cannot ensure that any existing products or brands will continue to be successfully received by consumers or our wholesale customers. We cannot ensure that any new products or brands that we introduce will be successfully received by consumers or our wholesale customers. Any failure on our part to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and leave us with unsold inventory or missed opportunities. If that occurs, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which may harm our business. At the same time, our focus on tight management of inventory may result, from time to time, in not having an adequate supply of products to meet consumer demand and cause us to lose sales. We conduct business outside the United States which exposes us to foreign currency, import restrictions, taxes, duties and other risks. We manufacture and source a majority of our products outside the United States. Our products are sold in the U.S. and internationally. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, including, among other risks, foreign currency exchange rate risks, import restrictions, anti-dumping investigations, political or labor disturbances, expropriation and acts of war. Additionally, as a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. On March 22, 2006, the European Commission imposed provisional duties on leather upper footwear originating from China and Vietnam and imported into European Member States. These provisional duties, which began on April 7, 2006, were effective for a six month period and were phased in over a period of five months, beginning at a rate of about 4% and ending at a 19.4% rate for China sourced footwear and at a 16.8% rate for Vietnam sourced footwear. These duties became definitive on October 7, 2006, for a period of two years, with a final 16.5% rate for China sourced footwear and a 10% rate for Vietnam sourced footwear. Pursuant to European Union regulations, only provisional duties which do not exceed the definitive duty rates 14 Table of Contents will be collected. Children’s footwear with leather uppers was excluded from the provisional duties, but is subject to definitive duties. Our estimate is that the implementation of these duties will likely reduce our 2007 operating profits in the range of $10 million. Although we pay for the purchase and manufacture of our products primarily in U.S. dollars, we are routinely subject to currency rate movements on non-U.S. denominated assets, liabilities and income as we sell goods in local currencies through our foreign subsidiaries. No assurances can be given that we will be protected from future changes in foreign currency exchange rates that may impact our financial condition or performance. We depend on independent manufacturers to produce the majority of our products and our business could suffer if we need to replace manufacturers or suppliers or find additional capacity. During 2006, we manufactured approximately 9% of our footwear unit volume. Independent manufacturers and licensees in Asia, Europe, Mexico, Africa and South and Central America produced the remainder of our footwear products and all of our apparel and accessories products. Independent manufacturers in China, Vietnam, Thailand and Indonesia produced approximately 91% of our 2006 footwear unit volume. Two of these manufacturers together produced approximately 44% of our 2006 footwear volume. If we experience a significant increase in demand or a manufacturer is unable to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards, then we could miss customer delivery date requirements for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers and import quota capacity. Any long-term economic downturn could cause our suppliers to fail to make and ship orders placed by us. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain current relationships with our current manufacturers or locate additional manufacturers that can meet our requirements or manufacture on terms that are acceptable to us. The loss of one or more of our major suppliers for materials may interrupt our supplies. We depend on a limited number of key sources for leather, our principal material, and other proprietary materials used in our products. In 2006, eleven suppliers provided, in the aggregate, approximately 82% of our leather purchases. Two of these suppliers provided approximately 30% of our leather purchases in 2006. While historically we have not experienced significant difficulties in obtaining leather or other materials in quantities sufficient for our operations, there have been significant changes in the prices for these materials. Our gross profit margins are adversely affected to the extent that the selling prices of our products do not increase proportionately with increases in the costs of leather and other materials. Any significant unanticipated increase or decrease in the prices of these commodities could materially affect our results of operations. Increasing oil-related product costs could also adversely impact gross margins. Our business could be adversely impacted by any disruption to our supply chain. Independent manufacturers manufacture a majority of our products outside of our principal sales markets, which requires us to transport our products through third parties over large geographic distances. Delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages or other factors could adversely impact our financial performance. Our business could be adversely impacted by the financial instability of our customers. We sell our products to wholesale customers and extend credit based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. The financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail doing business with that customer. Our inability to collect from our customers could have an adverse effect on our business or our financial condition. 15 Table of Contents We depend on sales forecasts which may not be accurate and may result in higher infrastructure and product investments. We base our investments in infrastructure and product, in part, on sales forecasts. We do business in highly competitive markets, and our business is affected by a variety of factors, including brand awareness, product innovations, retail market conditions, economic and other factors, changing consumer preferences, fashion trends, seasonality and weather conditions. One of our principal challenges is to predict these factors to enable us to match the production of our products with demand. If sales forecasts are not achieved, these investments could represent a higher percentage of revenue, and we may experience higher inventory levels and associated carrying costs, all of which could adversely affect our financial performance. Declines in revenue in our retail stores could adversely affect profitability. We have made significant capital investments in opening retail stores and incur significant expenditures in operating these stores. The higher level of fixed costs related to our retail organization can adversely affect profitability, particularly in the first half of the year, as our revenue historically has been more heavily weighted to the second half of the year. Our ability to recover the investment in and expenditures of our retail organization can be adversely affected if sales at our retail stores are lower than anticipated. Our gross margin could be adversely affected if off-price sales increase as a percentage of revenue. We rely on our licensing partners to help us preserve the value of our brand. Since late 1994, we have entered into several licensing agreements which enable us to expand our brand to product categories and geographic territories in which we have not had an appreciable presence. The risks associated with our own products also apply to our licensed products. There are also any number of possible risks specific to a licensing partner’s business, including, for example, risks associated with a particular licensing partner’s ability to obtain capital, manage its labor relations, maintain relationships with its suppliers, manage its credit risk effectively and maintain relationships with its customers. Although our license agreements prohibit licensing partners from entering into licensing arrangements with certain of our competitors, generally our licensing partners are not precluded from offering, under other brands, the types of products covered by their license agreements with us. A substantial portion of sales of the licensed products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest customers. While we have significant control over our licensing partners’ products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial control over their businesses. The loss of key executives could cause our business to suffer, and control by members of the Swartz family and the anti-takeover effect of multiple classes of stock could discourage attempts to acquire us. Sidney W. Swartz, our Chairman, Jeffrey B. Swartz, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and other executives have been key to the success of our business to date. The loss or retirement of these or other key executives could adversely affect us. Sidney W. Swartz, Jeffrey B. Swartz and various trusts established for the benefit of their families or for charitable purposes, hold approximately 71% of the combined voting power of our capital stock in the aggregate, enabling them to control our affairs and to influence the election of the three directors entitled to be elected by the holders of Class A common stock voting separately as a class. Members of the Swartz family will, unless they sell shares of Class B common stock that would reduce the Class B common stock outstanding to 12.5% or less of total Class A and Class B shares outstanding, have the ability, by virtue of their stock ownership, to prevent or cause a change in control of the Company. Our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a change of control that stockholders may consider favorable. Under our Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors has the ability to issue and determine the terms of preferred stock. The ability to issue preferred stock coupled with the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control or change in management that might provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. 16 Table of Contents Our inability to attract and retain qualified employees could impact our business. We compete for talented employees within our industry. We must maintain competitive compensation packages to recruit and retain qualified employees. Our failure to attract and retain qualified employees could adversely affect the sales, design and engineering of our products. Our ability to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may be limited. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks on a worldwide basis. We cannot ensure that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and proprietary rights of others. Also, we cannot ensure that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. We are also susceptible to injury from parallel trade and counterfeiting of our products. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We cannot assure the successful implementation of our strategy. As part of our growth strategy, we seek to enhance the premium positioning of our brand, to extend our brands into complementary product categories and consumer groups, to expand geographically and to improve our operational performance. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement any or all of these strategies, which could lead to a decline in our results in operations, which in turn could have a negative effect on our stock. The value of our brand, and our sales, could be diminished if we are associated with negative publicity. While our staff and third-party compliance auditors periodically visit and monitor the operations of our vendors, independent manufacturers and licensees, we do not control these vendors or independent manufacturers or their labor practices. A violation of our vendor policies, labor laws or other laws by these vendors or independent manufacturers could interrupt or otherwise disrupt our sourcing or damage our brand image. Negative publicity, for these or other reasons, regarding our Company, brand or products, including licensed products, could adversely affect our reputation and sales. Risks Related to Our Industry We face intense competition in the worldwide footwear and apparel industry, which may impact our sales. We face a variety of competitive challenges from other domestic and foreign footwear and apparel producers, some of which may be significantly larger and more diversified and have greater financial and marketing resources than we have. We compete with these companies primarily on the basis of anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner, maintaining favorable brand recognition, developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers, providing strong and effective marketing support, creating an acceptable value proposition for retail customers, ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with manufacturers and retailers, and obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail. Increased competition in the worldwide footwear and apparel industries, including internet-based competitors, could reduce our sales, prices and margins and adversely affect our results of operations. A downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items and retail products, which could adversely affect our sales. The industries in which we operate are cyclical. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the footwear and apparel industries, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, weather, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. 17 Table of Contents Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our products, may decline during recessionary periods and also may decline at other times when disposable income is lower. A downturn in the economies in which we, or our licensing partners, sell our products, whether in the United States or abroad, may adversely affect our sales. Our gross margin could also be adversely affected if off-price sales increase as a percentage of revenue. Retail trends could result in downward pressure on our prices. With the growing trend toward retail trade consolidation, we increasingly depend upon a reduced number of key retailers whose bargaining strength is growing. Changes in the policies of these retail trade customers, such as increased at-once ordering, limitations on access to shelf space and other conditions may result in lower net sales. Further consolidations in the retail industry could result in price and other competition that could damage our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 