risk factors described in this and other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K to be filed by the Company in fiscal 2006. PART I Item 1. Business GENERAL Fair Isaac Corporation (NYSE: FIC) (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”, which may also be referred to in this report as “we,” “us,” “our,” and “Fair Isaac”) provides products and services that enable businesses to automate and improve decisions. Our predictive analytics and decision management systems power billions of customer decisions each year. We were founded in 1956 on the premise that data, used intelligently, can improve business decisions. Today, we help thousands of companies in over 60 countries use our Enterprise Decision Management technology to target and acquire customers more efficiently, increase customer value, reduce fraud and credit losses, lower operating expenses, and enter new markets more profitably. Most leading banks and credit card issuers rely on our solutions, as do insurers, retailers, telecommunications providers, healthcare organizations, pharmaceutical companies and government agencies. We also serve consumers through online services that enable people to purchase and understand their FICO® scores, the standard measure in the United States of credit risk, empowering them to manage their financial health. More information about us can be found on our principal website, www.fairisaac.com. We make our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as amendments to those reports, available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with the SEC. Information on our website is not part of this report. 1 Table of Contents PRODUCTS AND SERVICES We help businesses automate more of their mission-critical decisions and apply more intelligence to customer interactions and business processes. We call this approach Enterprise Decision Management (“EDM”). Most of our solutions address customer decisions, including customer targeting and acquisition, account origination, customer management, fraud, collections and recovery. We also help businesses improve non-customer decisions such as transaction and claims processing, and network integrity review. Our solutions enable users to make decisions that are more precise, consistent and agile, and that systematically advance business goals. This helps our clients to reduce the cost of doing business, increase revenues and profitability, reduce losses from risks and fraud, and increase customer loyalty. Our Segments We categorize our products and services into the following four operating segments: • Strategy Machinetm Solutions. These are EDM applications designed for specific processes such as marketing, account origination, customer management, fraud and medical bill review. This segment also includes our myFICO solutions for consumers. • Scoring Solutions. These include our scoring services distributed through major credit reporting agencies, as well as services through which we provide our scores to lenders directly. • Professional Services. This segment includes revenues from custom engagements, business solution and technical consulting services, systems integration services, and data management services. • Analytic Software Tools. This segment is composed of our business rules management, model development and strategy design software sold to businesses for their use in building their own EDM applications. Comparative segment revenues, operating income and related financial information for fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003 are set forth in Note 17 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 2 Table of Contents Key Products and Services by Operating Segment Operating Segment Key Products and Services Strategy Machine Solutions Marketing Fair Isaac MarketSmart Decision System® solution Originations LiquidCredit® service Capstone® Decision Manager Capstone® Decision Accelerator Capstone® Intelligent Data Manager Customer Management TRIADtm adaptive control system TRIADtm Transaction Scores TelAdaptive® service RoamEx® Roamer Data Exchanger Fraud Falcontm Fraud Manager Fraud Predictor with Merchant Profiles Falcon Onetm solution Falcontm ID solution Risk Analytics for Telecom Fraud Analytics for Telecom Revenue Assurance Analytics Network Assurance Analytics Collections & Recovery Debt Managertm solution Recovery Management Systemtm solution (RMS) BridgeLinktm network PlacementsPlus® service Placement Optimizersm service Mortgage Banking Diamondtm loan origination solution TMO (The Mortgage Originator) loan origination solution LSAMStm servicing and account management solution FORTRACS default management solution LenStartm default management communications network TCLtm (The Construction Lender) solution BridgeLinktm network Insurance and Healthcare Fair Isaac SmartAdvisortm medical bill review Outsourced Cost Containment Services MIRA® Claims Advisor VeriComp® Fraud Manager Payment Optimizertm solution Consumer myFICO® service Score Watchtm subscription Scoring Solutions FICO® scores NextGen FICO® scores FICO® Expansiontm scores Fair Isaac® Qualifytm scores Global FICO® scores Marketing and bankruptcy scores Commercial credit risk scores Insurance scores ScoreNet® Service PreScore® Service 3 Table of Contents Operating Segment Key Products and Services Professional Services Solution and technology consulting Systems integration services Data management services Business strategy consulting Industry consulting Strategy Science services Predictive Science services Fraud consulting services Analytic Software Tools Fair Isaac Blaze Advisor SmartForms for Blaze Advisor Model Builder for Predictive Analytics Model Builder for Decision Trees Decision Optimizer Our Solutions Our solutions involve three fundamental disciplines: • Analytics to identify the risks and opportunities associated with individual clients and prospects, in order to detect patterns such as fraud, and to improve the design of decision logic or “strategies”; • Data management, profiling and text recognition that bring extensive customer information to every decision; and • Software such as rules management systems that implement business rules, models and decision strategies, often in a real-time environment. All of our solutions are designed to help businesses make decisions that are faster, more precise, more consistent and more agile, while reducing costs and reducing risks incurred in making decisions. Strategy Machine Solutions We develop industry-tailored EDM applications, which we call Strategy Machine solutions, that apply analytics, data management and decision management software to specific business challenges and processes. These include credit offer prescreening, medical bill review, telecommunications fraud prevention and others. Our Strategy Machine solutions serve clients in the financial services, insurance, healthcare, retail, telecommunications and government sectors. Marketing Strategy Machine Solutions The chief Strategy Machine offering for marketing is our Fair Isaac MarketSmart Decision System solution (“MarketSmart”). MarketSmart is a suite of products and capabilities designed to integrate all of the technology and analytic services needed to perform context-sensitive customer acquisition, cross-selling and retention programs. MarketSmart enables companies that offer multiple products and use multiple channels (companies such as large financial institutions, consumer branded goods companies, pharmaceutical companies, retail merchants and telecommunications service providers) to execute more efficient and profitable customer interactions. Services offered under the MarketSmart brand name include customer data integration (CDI) services; services that use transaction analytics to identify customer patterns and help clients target their marketing activities; services that enable real-time marketing through direct consumer interaction channels; campaign management and optimization services; interactive tools that automate the design, execution and collection of customer response data across multiple channels; and customer data collection, management and profiling services. A number of our marketing services are designed for specific industries, such as retail and pharmaceuticals. For example, our services for retailers include using analytics to help retailers identify and market to their store shoppers; analyzing transaction data to provide insights into store customer activity and compare it with 4 Table of Contents sales pattern activity across the marketplace; and analyzing a retailer’s purchase transaction data to help them understand buying patterns, sequences and contexts. Originations Strategy Machine Solutions We provide solutions that enable companies, typically financial services institutions such as banks, credit unions, finance companies and installment lenders, to automate and improve the processing of requests for credit from applicants. These solutions increase the speed and efficiency with which requests are handled, reduce losses and increase approval rates through analytics that assess applicant risk, and reduce the need for manual review by loan officers. Our solutions include LiquidCredit, a web-based service primarily focused on the credit decision and offered largely to mid-tier financial services institutions, e-commerce providers and telecommunications providers; and Capstone Decision Manager, a complete end-user software solution for application decisioning and processing. In fiscal 2005, we introduced new components for Capstone that can be used with multiple originations platforms and environments. These components are Capstone Decision Accelerator, which is a rules-based application based on our Fair Isaac Blaze Advisor system, and Capstone Intelligent Data Manager, which enables lenders to access data from several consumer and small business credit data sources. We also offer custom and consortium-based credit risk and application fraud models. Customer Management Strategy Machine Solutions Our customer management products and services enable businesses to automate and improve decisions on their existing customers. These solutions help businesses decide which customers to cross-sell, what additional products and services to offer, whether customer risk levels have increased or decreased, when and how much to change a customer’s credit line, what pricing adjustments to make in response to account performance or promotional goals, and how to treat delinquent and high-risk accounts. We provide customer management solutions for: • Financial Services. In financial services, our leading account and customer management product is the TRIAD adaptive control system. Our adaptive control systems are so named because they enable businesses to rapidly adapt to changing business and internal conditions by designing and testing new strategies in a “champion/challenger” environment. The TRIAD system is the world’s leading credit account management system, and our adaptive control systems are used by more than 250 issuers worldwide to manage approximately 65% of the world’s credit card accounts. Our latest version of the TRIAD system enables users to manage risk and communications at both the account and borrower level from a single platform. We also offer transaction-based neural network (the term neural network is defined under “Technology” later in this section) models called TRIAD Transaction Scores that help payment card issuers identify high-risk behavior more quickly and thus manage their credit card accounts more profitably. We market and sell TRIAD end-user software licenses, maintenance, consulting services, and strategy design and evaluation. Additionally, we provide TRIAD services and similar credit account management services through 11 third-party credit card processors worldwide, including the two largest processors in the U.S., First Data Resources, Inc. and Total System Services, Inc. We also provide the TRIAD system as a hosted service in Application Service Provider (“ASP”) mode. • Telecommunications. The TelAdaptive account management system offers telecommunications service providers account management functionality similar to the TRIAD system, including receivables risk management, account spending limits, churn management and cross-sell communications. In addition, we offer RoamEx Roamer Data Exchanger, which delivers near real-time exchange of roamer call records that occur when subscribers roam outside a carrier’s home network. RoamEx is used to exchange more than 90% of North American wireless carriers’ roamer call detail records. 5 Table of Contents • Insurance. We provide property and casualty insurers with decision management solutions that enable them to create, test and implement decision strategies for areas such as cross-selling, pricing, claims handling, retention, prospecting and underwriting. Fraud Strategy Machine Solutions Our fraud products improve our clients’ profitability by predicting the likelihood that a customer account is experiencing fraud. Our fraud products analyze customer transactions in real time and generate recommendations for immediate action, which is critical to stopping fraud and abuse. These applications can also detect some organized fraud schemes that are too complex and well-hidden to be identified by other methods. Our solutions are designed to detect and prevent a wide variety of fraud and risk types across multiple industries, including credit and debit payment card fraud; identity fraud; telecommunications subscription fraud, technical fraud and bad debt; healthcare fraud; Medicaid and Medicare fraud; and property and casualty insurance fraud, including workers’ compensation fraud. Fair Isaac fraud solutions protect merchants, financial institutions, insurance companies, telecommunications carriers, government agencies and employers from losses and damaged customer relationships caused by fraud. Our leading fraud detection solution is Falcon Fraud Manager, recognized as the leader in global payment card fraud detection. Falcon Fraud Manager’s neural network predictive models and patented profiling technology, both further described below in the “Technology” section, examine transaction, cardholder and merchant data to detect a wide range of payment card fraud quickly and accurately. Falcon analyzes payment card transactions in real time, assesses the risk of fraud, and takes the user-defined steps to prevent fraud while expediting legitimate transactions. Falcon Fraud Manager protects hundreds of millions of active accounts, and is used in approximately 65% of all credit card transactions worldwide. Fraud Predictor with Merchant Profiles is used in conjunction with Falcon Fraud Manager to improve fraud detection rates by analyzing merchant profile data. The merchant profiles include characteristics that reveal, for example, merchants that have a history of higher fraud volumes, and which purchase types and ticket sizes have most often been fraudulent at a particular merchant. Falcon ID enables lenders and telecommunications service providers to control identity fraud across the customer lifecycle. Falcon ID relies on multiple sources of data and complex statistical modeling techniques to identify activity that is at high risk of stemming from identity theft. It also provides business rules management that companies can use to identify and resolve cases that appear to involve identity theft. In fiscal 2005, we introduced an important addition to our fraud line, the Falcon One system. This system enables businesses to improve their protection across channels and business lines, by sharing detection capabilities, case management and analytics. The Falcon One system offers greater protection against multiple types of fraud than do the “point solutions” available today. It also provides a unified infrastructure that will bridge our existing fraud solutions, such as Falcon Fraud Manager and Falcon ID, as well as custom solutions we develop for our clients for other types of fraud. We also market solutions specifically designed to help telecommunications service providers reduce fraud losses. Our Risk Analytics for Telecom and Fraud Analytics for Telecom solutions help service providers mitigate early-life and ongoing bad debt, in addition to reducing complex types of fraud such as subscription fraud, technical fraud, internal fraud, dealer/agent fraud, calling card fraud, cloning, and clip-on fraud. Two new solutions in this area in fiscal 2005 included Revenue Assurance Analytics, which predict revenue leakage in the switch data collection, data mediation and billing/rating system phases, and Network Assurance Analytics, which predicts problems in a telecommunications network by detecting intrusion, abuse or network integrity compromises. Collections & Recovery Strategy Machine Solutions In fiscal 2004, Fair Isaac acquired London Bridge Software Holdings plc (“London Bridge”), which provides a number of solutions for collections and debt recovery. These solutions are used not just in consumer 6 Table of Contents credit but also in insurance, retail, healthcare, utilities and telecommunications, as well as by government agencies. Our leading solutions in this area are the Debt Manager solution and Recovery Management System (“RMS”). The Debt Manager solution automates the full cycle of collections and recovery, including early collections, late collections, asset disposal, agency placement, recovery, litigation, bankruptcy, asset management and residual balance recovery. RMS is focused on the later phases of distressed debt management, including bankruptcy and agency management. Debt Manager and RMS customers can access partner services such as collection agencies and attorneys via the BridgeLink network which provides web-based access to and from thousands of third-party collections and recovery service providers. Other solutions for collections and recovery, which we categorized last year with our account management solutions, include the PlacementsPlus service, an account placement optimization and management system; the Placement Optimizer service, which uses artificial intelligence-based analytics used to identify the agency that is likely to collect the most for each account; and custom collection and recovery models implemented in an ASP environment. Those analytic-based solutions can also be delivered via the BridgeLink network. Mortgage Banking Strategy Machine Solutions As a result of our acquisition of London Bridge in fiscal 2004, Fair Isaac now provides end-to-end mortgage lending solutions that mortgage lenders can use to improve their loan marketing, sourcing, originations, servicing and default management. These solutions include the Diamond loan origination solution, an internet-based solution that streamlines the complete mortgage process; TMO (The Mortgage Originator), a loan origination system; the LSAMS loan servicing and account management system for the servicing of mortgage and consumer loans; FORTRACS software for default management; and the LenStar default management communication network for attorney referrals. This category also includes TCL (The Construction Lender), which enables lenders to manage the entire construction lending process. All of the mortgage solutions are integrated with Fair Isaac’s BridgeLink vendor management network, which provides real-time connectivity to a broad range of third-party service providers, business partners and external systems involved in the complex process of mortgage lending. Insurance and Healthcare Strategy Machine Solutions We provide software solutions and services that automate the review and repricing of medical bills for workers’ compensation and automobile medical injuries. Using these solutions, property and casualty insurers can automatically review and reprice a significant percentage of medical bills without human intervention. This allows for greater consistency and accuracy, which are important factors for regulatory compliance. Our principal solutions in this area are: • Fair Isaac SmartAdvisor medical bill review software. The Fair Isaac SmartAdvisor solution provides medical bill review and repricing for workers’ compensation and automobile medical injury claims. It checks each bill against an extensive database of state fee schedules, automated contracts and user-defined policies to help insurers and others get the maximum savings on every bill reviewed. The SmartAdvisor software uses our business rules management technology to increase the speed, accuracy and consistency of decisions and reduce labor costs. It is available in both licensed client/server and ASP versions. • Outsourced Cost Containment Services. Utilizing Fair Isaac’s medical bill review software, we provide turnkey insurance bill review administration services at selected locations across the country. These service bureau operations offer expert medical bill and preferred provider review for workers’ compensation and auto medical insurance bills, including the additional review of complex medical, hospital and surgical bills. 7 Table of Contents We also provide fraud solutions for different segments of the insurance healthcare market. Our principal solutions in this area are: • VeriComp® Fraud Manager software, which uses neural networks and data analysis to identify potentially fraudulent workers’ compensation claims that need investigation or special handling. • Payment Optimizer fraud detection system, which provides both prepayment claims scoring and retrospective analysis to help payers reduce fraud losses and ensure payment integrity. Additionally, we serve the insurance claims management market through our MIRA Claims Advisor product which uses predictive models to forecast appropriate claims reserves based on individual claim data. We also provide services that help healthcare payers reduce claims leakage and detect fraud, and that help hospitals determine payment strategies for patients during the admission process. Consumer Strategy Machine Solutions Through our myFICO division, we provide solutions based on our analytics to consumers, sold directly by us or through distribution partners. In its nearly five years of existence, more that 12 million scores have been delivered to consumers. Consumers can use the myFICO.com website to purchase their FICO scores, the credit reports underlying the scores, explanations of the factors affecting their scores, and customized advice on how to improve their scores. Customers can also use the myFICO service to simulate how taking specific actions would affect their FICO score. The myFICO.com website is the only source for consumers to obtain their FICO scores and credit reports from all three of the major U.S. credit reporting agencies. In December 2004, myFICO started offering Score Watchtm subscriptions, which deliver alerts via email and SMS or text messages to consumers when their scores or balances change. The myFICO products and subscription offerings are available online at www.myfico.com, through two of the credit reporting agencies involved — Equifax Inc. (“Equifax”) and TransUnion Corporation (“TransUnion”) — and through lenders, financial portals and numerous other partners. Scoring Solutions We develop the world’s leading scores based on third-party data. Our FICO scores are used in most U.S. credit decisions, by most of the major credit card organizations as well as by mortgage and auto loan originators. These scores provide a consistent and objective measure of an individual’s credit risk. Credit grantors use the FICO scores to prescreen solicitation candidates, to evaluate applicants for new credit and to review existing accounts. The FICO scores are calculated based on proprietary scoring models. The scores produced by these models are available through each of the three major credit reporting agencies in the United States: TransUnion, Experian Information Solutions, Inc. (“Experian”), and Equifax. Users generally pay the credit reporting agencies scoring fees based on usage, and the credit reporting agencies share these fees with us. The most powerful of our U.S. credit bureau products, NextGen FICO risk scores, are also available at all three major credit-reporting agencies. NextGen FICO risk scores provide a more refined risk assessment than the classic FICO risk scores. In fiscal 2004, we released two new scoring products, both based on data unavailable through the three major U.S. credit reporting agencies. The FICO Expansion score provides scores on U.S. consumers who do not have traditional FICO scores, generally because they do not have any credit accounts being reported to the credit reporting agencies. The score analyzes multiple sources of non-traditional credit data accessed by our subsidiary Fair Isaac Network, Inc., and the score and associated reports are provided to lenders through a subsidiary called Fair Isaac Credit Services, Inc. We also released the Fair Isaac Qualify score, which helps marketers find prospects on their promotional mailing lists who are most likely to respond and to be approved for credit. This score is based on commercially available sources of marketing data, and is delivered by Fair Isaac. Another major addition to our scoring solutions in fiscal 2004 was the Global FICO score. This score extends our thorough analysis of multiple-lender credit data to countries around the world that have 8 Table of Contents established credit bureaus. These scores help lenders assess the risk of prospects, applicants and borrowers, and are particularly valuable in markets where there is not a dominant credit bureau risk score available. In addition to the scores noted above, we have developed marketing and bankruptcy scores offered through the U.S. credit reporting agencies; an application fraud and a bankruptcy score available in Canada; consumer risk scores offered through credit reporting agencies in Canada, South Africa and the U.K.; commercial credit scores delivered by both U.S. and U.K. credit reporting agencies; and a bankruptcy scoring service offered through ISC, a subsidiary of Visa USA. We have also developed scoring systems for insurance underwriters and marketers. Such systems use the same underlying statistical technology as our FICO risk scores, but are designed to predict applicant or policyholder insurance loss risk for automobile or homeowners’ coverage. Our insurance scores are available in the U.S. from TransUnion, Experian, Equifax and ChoicePoint, Inc., and in Canada from Equifax. In fiscal 2005, we introduced a new kind of insurance score called the Property PredictRtm score, which analyzes property inspection database data from an insurance services provider, Millennium Information Services, Inc., to calculate the loss risk of a property. We also provide credit bureau scoring services and related consulting directly to users in financial services through two U.S.-based services: PreScore Service for prescreening solicitation candidates, and ScoreNet Service for customer account management. Professional Services We provide a variety of custom offerings, business solution and technical consulting services, systems integration services, and data management services to markets worldwide. The focus is on leveraging our industry experience and technical expertise, typically on a custom basis, to help clients address unique business challenges, to support the usage of our Strategy Machine solutions and our analytic software tools, and to create new sales opportunities for our other offerings. This group also performs consultative selling, developing customized solution sets combining various products and capabilities to meet unique client or industry opportunities. These services are generally offered on an hourly or fixed fee basis. In fiscal 2005, we acquired Braun Consulting, Inc. (“Braun”), a marketing strategy and technology consulting firm based in Chicago with offices in Boston and New York. As a result of this acquisition, we now offer a wider range of consulting services addressing business strategy, operational excellence and marketing practice. This acquisition also increased our presence in the healthcare, retail and pharmaceutical industries. Our services include: • Solution and technology consulting. We help clients implement and use our solutions and technologies. These projects draw on our product knowledge, industry expertise and technical skills. Each project is delivered using a well-defined business integration methodology. • Systems integration services. We help clients manage customer relationships more successfully through integrated customer systems and personalized content delivery. To accomplish this, we create common web platforms that leverage internet technologies such as portals (both internal and external), enterprise content management, web services and enterprise application integration. • Data management services. We help clients gain insight into their customers by enabling the access, analysis and application of corporate data and information. This work involves implementing enterprise-level data and decision management systems, including data warehouses and marts, campaign management tools, database marketing engines, rules-based decision engines and analytical applications. • Business strategy consulting. We help companies improve business performance through the design and implementation of customer-centric growth strategies. Using qualitative and quantitative research techniques, we help businesses determine which customer segments they should be targeting, what the sales and service proposition should be for each segment, and how to address organizational issues to 9 Table of Contents ensure project success. Another key focus is helping companies comply with regulations such as Sarbanes-Oxley or the New Basel Capital Accord. • Industry consulting. We combine our knowledge of EDM technology with our consultants’ experience to address the specific needs of companies in the retail, pharmaceuticals, telecommunications, insurance and healthcare industries. Our industry consultants provide a wide range of consulting services, including business strategy consulting and custom solutions development. • Strategy Science services. Using our Strategy Science technology and related advanced analytic methodologies, we perform decision modeling and optimization projects for customer acquisition, customer management, fraud, collections and other areas. These projects apply data and proprietary algorithms to the design of customer treatment strategies. • Predictive Science services. We perform custom predictive modeling and related analytic projects for clients in multiple industries. This work leverages our analytic methodologies and expertise to solve risk management and marketing challenges for a single business, using that business’s data and industry best practices to develop a highly customized solution. • Fraud consulting services. We complement our fraud products with consulting engagements that help businesses benchmark their performance, assess areas to improve and adopt best practices and solutions aimed at reducing fraud losses. These engagements draw on Fair Isaac’s experience helping lenders and other parties worldwide bring fraud losses under control and implement more successful anti-fraud programs. Analytic Software Tools We provide end-user software products that businesses use to build their own tailored EDM applications. In contrast to our packaged Strategy Machine solutions developed for specific industry applications, our analytic software tools perform a single function — such as management of the rules and policies an enterprise uses to make decisions — that can be easily integrated within a variety of specialized industry applications. We use these tools as common software components for our own EDM applications, described above in the Strategy Machine Solutions section. We also partner with third-party providers within given industry markets and with major software companies to imbed our tools within existing applications. These tools are sold as licensed software. The principal products offered are software tools for: • Rules Management. Fair Isaac Blaze Advisor is a rules management tool used to design, develop, execute and maintain rules-based business applications. Blaze Advisor enables businesses to more quickly develop complex decisioning applications, respond to changing customer needs, implement regulatory compliance and reduce the total cost of day-to-day operations. Blaze Advisor is sold as an end-user tool and is also the rules engine within several of our Strategy Machine solutions. In fiscal 2005, we introduced a software offering called SmartForms for Blaze Advisor that is used to create and manage dynamic, web-based forms that improve the completeness and accuracy of customer data collected online. In September 2005, we acquired certain assets of RulesPower, Inc. (“RulesPower”), including its advanced rules execution technology. We intend to use this technology to enhance the performance of our Blaze Advisor software, both as a stand-alone system and as a component in our Strategy Machine solutions offerings. • Model Development. Model Builder for Predictive Analytics enables the user to develop and deploy sophisticated predictive models for use in automated decisions. This software is based on the methodology and tools Fair Isaac uses to build both client-level and industry-level predictive models, and which we have evolved over nearly 40 years. The predictive models produced can be embedded in custom production applications or one of our Strategy Machine solutions, and can also be executed in Blaze Advisor. 10 Table of Contents • Data-Driven Strategy Design. Model Builder for Decision Trees enables the user to create empirical strategies, augmenting the user’s expert judgment by applying data-driven analytics to discover patterns empirically. In designing the steps and criteria of a decision strategy, the user can segment the customer base for targeted action based on the results of different performance measures, and can simulate the performance of the designed strategy. Decision Optimizer, a key component in our Strategy Science offerings, uses an optimization algorithm to deliver customer treatment strategies or rule sets that improve results along one or more specified business objectives, while meeting stated constraints. The data-driven strategies produced by these tools can be executed by Blaze Advisor or one of our Strategy Machine solutions. COMPETITION The market for our advanced solutions is intensely competitive and is constantly changing. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope of the products and services they offer. We encounter competition from a number of sources, including: • in-house analytic and systems developers; • scoring model builders; • enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) and customer relationship management (“CRM”) packaged solutions providers; • business intelligence solutions providers; • providers of credit reports and credit scores; • providers of automated application processing services; • data vendors; • neural network developers and artificial intelligence system builders; • third-party professional services and consulting organizations; • providers of account/workflow management software; • managed care organizations; and • software companies supplying modeling, rules, or analytic development tools. We believe that none of our competitors offers the same mix of products as we do, or has the same expertise in predictive analytics and their integration with decision management software. However, certain competitors may have larger shares of particular geographic or product markets. Strategy Machine Solutions The competition for our Strategy Machine solutions varies by both application and industry. In the customer acquisition market, we compete with Acxiom, Experian, SAS, SPSS, Epsilon, Harte-Hanks, and Siebel, among others. We also compete with traditional advertising agencies and companies’ own internal information technology and analytics departments. In the origination market, we compete with CGI/ AMS, Experian, Provenir, Lightbridge, Appro Systems, and First American Credit Management Solutions (CMSI), among others. In the customer management market, we compete with CGI/ AMS, Experian, Insurance Services Organization, ChoicePoint, Lightbridge and Oracle, among others. In the fraud solutions market, we mainly compete with SearchSpace, ID Analytics, Experian, Retail Decisions plc and ACI Worldwide, a division of Transaction Systems Architects, in the financial services market; ECTel, Hewlett-Packard, Cerebrus Solutions and Neural Technologies in the telecommunications 11 Table of Contents market; IBM and ViPS in the healthcare segment; and SAS, Infoglide Software Corporation, NetMap Analytics and Magnify in the property and casualty and workers’ compensation insurance market. In the collections and recovery solutions market, we mainly compete with CGI/ AMS, Columbia Ultimate, Ontario Systems, Austin Logistics, Talgentra, Attentiv Systems and various boutique firms for software and ASP servicing; and in-house scoring and computer science departments along with the three major U.S. credit reporting agencies and Experian-Scorex for scoring and optimization projects. In the mortgage lending solutions market, we mainly compete with Fidelity, Framework, Fiserv, First American, Gallagher and GHR. In the construction lending market our main competitors are Harland and DataSelect. In the insurance and healthcare solutions market, we mainly compete with Ingenix, First Health, CorVel Corporation, SAS, ISO, IBM, Mitchell International, Inc., and Concentra Managed Care. For our direct-to-consumer services that deliver credit scores, credit reports and consumer credit education services, we compete with our credit reporting agency partners and their affiliated companies, as well as with Trilegiant, InterSections and others. Scoring Solutions In this segment, we compete with both outside suppliers and in-house analytics and computer systems departments for scoring business. Major competitors among outside suppliers of scoring models include the three major U.S. credit reporting agencies, which are also our partners in offering our scoring solutions; Experian-Scorex and other credit reporting agencies outside the United States; and other data providers like LexisNexis and ChoicePoint. Professional Services We compete with a variety of organizations that offer consulting services, primarily specialty technology and consulting firms. In addition, a client may use its own resources rather than engage an outside firm for these services. Our competitors include information technology product and services vendors, management and strategy consulting firms, smaller specialized information technology consulting firms and analytical services firms. Analytic Software Tools Our primary competitors in this segment include SAS, SPSS, Angoss, ILOG, Computer Associates International, and Pegasystems. Competitive Factors We believe the principal competitive factors affecting our markets include: technical performance; access to unique proprietary databases; availability in ASP format; product attributes like adaptability, scalability, interoperability, functionality and ease-of-use; product price; customer service and support; the effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts; existing market penetration; and our reputation. Although we believe our products and services compete favorably with respect to these factors, we may not be able to maintain our competitive position against current and future competitors. MARKETS AND CUSTOMERS Our products and services serve clients in multiple industries, including financial services, insurance, retail, telecommunications, healthcare, pharmaceuticals and governmental agencies. During fiscal 2005, end users of our products included more than 85 of the 100 largest banks in the United States; approximately two-thirds of the largest 100 banks in the world; and more than 90 of the 100 largest U.S. credit card issuers. Our clients also include more than 400 insurers and healthcare payors, more than 100 retailers and general merchandisers, more than 80 government or public agencies, more than 100 telecommunications carriers, and 12 Table of Contents many leading healthcare and pharmaceuticals companies. Nine of the top 10 companies on the 2005 Fortune 500 list use Fair Isaac’s solutions. In addition, our consumer services are marketed to an estimated 190 million U.S. consumers whose credit relationships are reported to the three major credit reporting agencies. In the United States, we market our products and services primarily through our own direct sales organization. Sales groups are based in our headquarters and in field offices strategically located both in and outside the United States. We also market our products through indirect channels, including alliance partners and other resellers. During fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, revenues generated from our agreements with Equifax, TransUnion and Experian collectively accounted for 20%, 20% and 19% of our total revenues, respectively. Outside the United States, we market our products and services primarily through our subsidiary sales organizations. Our subsidiaries license and support our products in their local countries as well as within other foreign countries where we do not operate through a direct sales subsidiary. We also market our products through resellers and independent distributors in international territories not covered by our subsidiaries’ direct sales organizations. Our largest market segments outside the United States are the United Kingdom and Canada. Mexico, South Africa, a number of countries in South America and almost all of the Western European countries are represented in our user base. We have delivered products to users in over 60 countries. Revenues from international customers, including end users and resellers, amounted to 25%, 22% and 21% of our total revenues in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. See Note 17 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a summary of our operating segments and geographic information. TECHNOLOGY We specialize in analytics, software and data management technologies that analyze data and drive business processes and decision strategies. We maintain active research in a number of fields for the purposes of deriving greater insight and predictive value from data, making various forms of data more usable and valuable to the model-building process, and automating and applying analytics to the various processes involved in making high-volume decisions in real time. Because of our pioneering work in credit scoring and fraud detection, we are widely recognized as the leader in predictive analytics. In addition, our Fair Isaac Blaze Advisor software is consistently ranked as a leader in rules management systems. In all our work, we believe that our tools and processes are among the very best commercially available, and that we are uniquely able to integrate advanced analytic, software and data technologies into mission-critical business solutions that offer superior returns on investment. Principal Areas of Expertise Predictive Modeling. Predictive modeling identifies and mathematically represents underlying relationships in historical data in order to explain the data and make predictions or classifications about future events. Our models summarize large quantities of data to amplify its value. Predictive models typically analyze current and historical data on individuals to produce easily understood metrics such as scores. These scores rank-order individuals by likely future performance, e.g., their likelihood of making credit payments on time, or of responding to a particular offer for services. We also include in this category models that detect the likelihood of a transaction being fraudulent. Our predictive models are frequently operationalized in mission-critical transactional systems and drive decisions and actions in near real time. A number of analytic methodologies underlie our products in this area. These include proprietary applications of both linear and non-linear mathematical programming algorithms, in which one objective is optimized within a set of constraints, and advanced “neural” systems, which learn complex patterns from large data sets to predict the probability that a new individual will exhibit certain behaviors of business interest. We also apply various related statistical techniques for analysis and pattern detection within large datasets. For example, we recently 13 Table of Contents developed a proprietary technology we call Pair-wise Co-occurrence Consistency or “Peacock,” which we use to analyze large-scale purchase transaction data to reveal product relationships, purchase patterns and sequences. Decision Analysis and Optimization. Decision analysis refers to the broad quantitative field that deals with modeling, analyzing and optimizing decisions made by individuals, groups and organizations. Whereas predictive models analyze multiple aspects of individual behavior to forecast future behavior, decision analysis analyzes multiple aspects of a given decision to identify the most effective action to take to reach a desired result. We have developed an integrated approach to decision analysis that incorporates the development of a decision model that mathematically maps the entire decision structure; proprietary optimization technology that identifies the most effective strategies, given both the performance objective and constraints; the development of designed testing required for active, continuous learning; and the robust extrapolation of an optimized strategy to a wider set of scenarios than historically encountered. This technology is behind our Strategy Science solutions. Transaction Profiling. Transaction profiling is a patent-protected technique used to extract meaningful information and reduce the complexity of transaction data used in modeling. Many of our products operate using transactional data, such as credit card purchase transactions, or other types of data that change over time. In its raw form, this data is very difficult to use in predictive models for several reasons: First, an isolated transaction contains very little information about the behavior of the individual that generated the transaction. In addition, transaction patterns change rapidly over time. Finally, this type of data can often be highly complex. To overcome these issues, we have developed a set of proprietary techniques that transform raw transactional data into a mathematical representation that reveals latent information, and which make the data more usable by predictive models. This profiling technology accumulates data across multiple transactions of many types to create and update profiles of transaction patterns. These profiles enable our neural network models to efficiently and effectively make accurate assessments of, for example, fraud risk and credit risk within real-time transaction streams. Customer Data Integration. Decisions made on customers or prospects can benefit from data stored in multiple sources, both inside and outside the enterprise. We have focused on developing data integration processes that are able to assemble and integrate those disparate data sources into a unified view of the customer or household, through the application of persistent keying technology. Decision Management Software. In order to make a decision strategy operational, the various steps and rules need to be programmed or exported into the business’ software infrastructure, where it can communicate with front-end, customer-facing systems and back-end systems such as billing systems. We have developed software systems, sometimes known as decision engines and business rules management systems, that perform the necessary functions to execute a decision strategy. Our software includes very efficient programs for these functions, facilitating, for example, business user definition of extremely complex decision strategies using graphic user interfaces; simultaneous testing of hundreds of decision strategies in “champion/challenger” (test/control) mode; high-volume processing and analysis of transactions in real time; integration of multiple data sources; and execution of predictive models for improved behavior forecasts and finer segmentation. Research and Development Activities Our research and development expenses were $81.3 million, $71.1 million, and $67.6 million in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to continually maintain and improve our core technologies, enhance our existing products, and develop new products and technologies that meet an expanding range of markets and customer requirements. In the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, we use our own development tools extensively. We have traditionally relied primarily on the internal development of our products. Based on timing and cost considerations, however, we have acquired, and in the future may consider acquiring, technology or products from third parties. 14 Table of Contents PRODUCT PROTECTION AND TRADEMARKS We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements and procedures to protect our proprietary rights. We retain the title to and protect the suite of models and software used to develop scoring models as a trade secret. We also restrict access to our source code and limit access to and distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary information. We have generally relied upon the laws protecting trade secrets and upon contractual non-disclosure safeguards and restrictions on transferability to protect our software and proprietary interests in our product and service methodology and know-how. Our confidentiality procedures include invention assignment and proprietary information agreements with our employees and independent contractors, and nondisclosure agreements with our distributors, strategic partners and customers. We also claim copyright protection for certain proprietary software and documentation. We have patents on many of our technologies and have patent applications pending on other technologies. The patents we hold may not be upheld as valid and may not prevent the development of competitive products. In addition, patents may never be issued on our pending patent applications or on any future applications that we may submit. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for competitors or users to copy or reproduce aspects of our software or to obtain information that we regard as trade secrets. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Patents and other protections for our intellectual property are important, but we believe our success and growth will depend principally on such factors as the knowledge, ability, experience and creative skills of our personnel, new products, frequent product enhancements, and name recognition. We have developed technologies for research projects conducted under agreements with various United States government agencies or their subcontractors. Although we have acquired commercial rights to these technologies, the United States government typically retains ownership of intellectual property rights and licenses in the technologies that we develop under these contracts. In some cases, the United States government can terminate our rights to these technologies if we fail to commercialize them on a timely basis. In addition, under United States government contracts, the government may make the results of our research public, which could limit our competitive advantage with respect to future products based on funded research. We have used, registered and/or applied to register certain trademarks and service marks for our technologies, products and services. 300-850tm score, A3® service, ActiView®service, BridgeLinktm network, Capstone® Decision Manager, Capstone® Decision Manager, CompAdvisor®medical bill review software, ContactBuildertm service, Context Vectorstm technology, CreditDesk® origination and underwriting software, Debt Managertm solution, Diamondtmsoftware system, Enterprise Decision Manager® system, Fair Isaac®, Fair Isaac Korea®, Fair Isaac MarketSmart CDISM service, Fair Isaac MarketSmart Decision System® solution, Fair Isaac® Qualifytm score, Fair Isaac SmartAdvisortm medical bill review software, Fair Isaac SmartLink® customer data integration service, FalcontmExpress, Falcontm Fraud Manager, Falcontm ID solution, Falcon Onetm system, FastPaneltm diagnostics, FICO®Expansiontm score, FICO® score, FICO — the score lenders usetm (tagline), FICO — the score to knowtm (tagline), FICO.orgtm service, Global FICO® score, Identity Theft Securitytm service, It’s just a smarter way to do business® (tagline), LenStartm service, LiquidCredit® service, LSAMStm software system, MIRAtm Claims Advisor for Reserving, myFICO® service, NextGen FICO® scores, OfferPointtm transaction analytics solution, Payment Optimizer® solution, PlacementsPlus® service, PrecisionViewtm transaction analytics solution, PreScore® Service, Recovery Management Systemtm solution, RMStm solution, RMS NGtmsolution, RoamEx® roamer data exchanger, ScoreNet®Service, ScoreWare® software, See how lenders see youSM (tagline), Small Business Scoring ServiceSM (or SBSSSM) solution, Strategy Machine® solution, StrategyWare® decision engine, TCLtm software system, TelAdaptive® account management service, TRIADtm adaptive control system, UniScoreSM service, Vectus® software, VeriComp® Fraud Manager, and Vista® account management risk score service are trademarks or registered trademarks of Fair Isaac Corporation, in the United States and/or in other countries. 15 Table of Contents PERSONNEL As of September 30, 2005, we employed 2,796 persons worldwide. Of these, 418 full-time employees were located in our Minneapolis and Arden Hills, Minnesota offices, 375 full-time employees were located in our San Rafael, California office, 396 full-time employees were located in our San Diego, California office, and 262 full-time employees were located in our United Kingdom-based offices. None of our employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement and no work stoppages have been experienced. Information regarding our officers is included in “Executive Officers of the Registrant” at the end of Part I of this report. 