risk factors described in this and other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K to be filed by the Company in fiscal 2007. PART I Item 1. Business GENERAL Fair Isaac Corporation (NYSE: FIC) (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”, which may also be referred to in this report as “we,” “us,” “our,” and “Fair Isaac”) provides products and services that enable businesses to automate and improve decisions. Our predictive analytics and decision management systems power hundreds of billions of customer decisions each year. We were founded in 1956 on the premise that data, used intelligently, can improve business decisions. Today, we help thousands of companies in over 60 countries use our Enterprise Decision Management technology to target and acquire customers more efficiently, increase customer value, reduce fraud and credit losses, lower operating expenses, and enter new markets more profitably. Most leading banks and credit card issuers rely on our solutions, as do insurers, retailers, telecommunications providers, healthcare organizations, pharmaceutical companies and government agencies. We also serve consumers through online services that enable people to purchase and understand their FICO® scores, the standard measure in the United States of credit risk, empowering them to manage their financial health. More information about us can be found on our principal website, www.fairisaac.com. We make our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as amendments to those reports, available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with the SEC. Information on our website is not part of this report. 1 Table of Contents PRODUCTS AND SERVICES We help businesses automate and improve decisions across the enterprise, an approach we commonly refer to as Enterprise Decision Management, or “EDM”. Most of our solutions address customer decisions, including customer targeting and acquisition, account origination, customer management, fraud, collections and recovery. We also help businesses improve non-customer decisions such as transaction and claims processing, and network integrity review. Our solutions enable users to make decisions that are more precise, consistent and agile, and that systematically advance business goals. This helps our clients to reduce the cost of doing business, increase revenues and profitability, reduce losses from risks and fraud, and increase customer loyalty. Our Segments We deliver EDM through products and services that we categorize into the following four operating segments: • Strategy Machinetm Solutions. These are pre-configured EDM applications designed for a specific type of business problem or process, such as marketing, account origination, customer management, fraud and medical bill review. This segment also includes our myFICO solutions for consumers. • Scoring Solutions. Our scoring solutions give our clients access to analytics that can be easily integrated into their transaction streams and decision-making processes. Our scoring solutions are distributed through major credit reporting agencies, as well as services through which we provide our scores to lenders directly. • Professional Services. Through our professional services, we tailor our EDM products to our clients’ environments, and we design more effective decisioning environments for our clients. This segment includes revenues from custom engagements, business solution and technical consulting services, systems integration services, and data management services. • Analytic Software Tools. This segment is composed of software tools that clients can use to create their own custom EDM applications. Comparative segment revenues, operating income and related financial information for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 are set forth in Note 16 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 2 Table of Contents Key Products and Services by Operating Segment Operating Segment Key Products and Services Strategy Machine Solutions Marketing Fair Isaac MarketSmart Decision System® solution Originations LiquidCredit® service Capstone® Decision Manager Capstone® Decision Accelerator Capstone® Intelligent Data Manager Customer Management TRIADtm adaptive control system TRIADtm Transaction Scores TelAdaptive® service Fraud Falcontm Fraud Manager Fraud Predictor with Merchant Profiles Falcontm ID solution CardAlert Fraud Manager Fraud/Risk Analytics for Telecom (including Revenue and Network Assurance) RoamEx® Roamer Data Exchanger Collections & Recovery Debt Managertm solution Recovery Management Systemtm solution (RMS) ScoreNet® network PlacementsPlus® service Placement Optimizersm service Mortgage Banking Diamondtm loan origination solution LSAMStm loan servicing and account management solution FORTRACS default management solution LenStartm default management communications network TCLtm (The Construction Lender) solution ScoreNet® network Insurance and Healthcare Fair Isaac SmartAdvisortm medical bill review Insurance Service Bureau Payment Optimizer® solution VeriComp® Fraud Manager MIRAtm Claims Advisor Consumer myFICO® service Score Watchtm subscription Scoring Solutions FICO® scores NextGen FICO® scores FICO® Expansiontm scores Fair Isaac® Qualifytm scores Global FICO® scores Marketing and bankruptcy scores Commercial credit risk scores Credit-based insurance scores Property PredictRtm scores FICO® score delivery PreScore® Service 3 Table of Contents Operating Segment Key Products and Services Professional Services Solution and technology consulting Systems integration services Data management services Business strategy consulting Industry consulting Strategy Science services Predictive Science services Fraud consulting services Analytic Software Tools Blaze Advisortm business rules management system Model Builder for Predictive Analytics Model Builder for Decision Trees Decision Optimizer Our Solutions Our solutions involve three fundamental disciplines: • Analytics to identify the risks and opportunities associated with individual clients, prospects and transactions, in order to detect patterns such as fraud, and to improve the design of decision logic or “strategies”; • Data management, profiling and text recognition that bring extensive customer information to every decision; and • Software such as rules management systems that implement business rules, models and decision strategies, often in a real-time environment. All of our solutions are designed to help businesses make decisions that are faster, more precise, more consistent and more agile, while reducing costs and risks incurred in making decisions. Strategy Machine Solutions We develop industry-tailored EDM applications, which we call Strategy Machine Solutions, that apply analytics, data management and decision management software to specific business challenges and processes. These include credit offer prescreening, medical bill review, telecommunications fraud prevention and others. Our Strategy Machine Solutions serve clients in the financial services, insurance, healthcare, retail, telecommunications and government sectors. Marketing Strategy Machine Solutions The chief Strategy Machine offering for marketing is our Fair Isaac MarketSmart Decision System® solution (“MarketSmart”). The MarketSmart solution is a suite of products and capabilities designed to integrate all of the technology and analytic services needed to perform context-sensitive customer acquisition, cross-selling and retention programs. The MarketSmart solution enables companies that offer multiple products and use multiple channels (companies such as large financial institutions, consumer branded goods companies, pharmaceutical companies, retail merchants and telecommunications service providers) to execute more efficient and profitable customer interactions. Services offered under the MarketSmart brand name include customer data integration (“CDI”) services; services that use transaction analytics to identify customer patterns and help clients target their marketing activities; services that enable real-time marketing through direct consumer interaction channels; campaign management and optimization services; interactive tools that automate the design, execution and collection of customer response data across multiple channels; and customer data collection, management and profiling services. A number of our marketing services are designed for specific industries, such as retail and pharmaceuticals. For example, our services for retailers include using analytics to help retailers identify and market to their store shoppers; analyzing transaction data to provide insights into store customer activity and compare it with sales 4 Table of Contents pattern activity across the marketplace; and analyzing a retailer’s purchase transaction data to help them understand buying patterns, sequences and contexts. Originations Strategy Machine Solutions We provide solutions that enable banks, credit unions, finance companies, installment lenders, telecommunications service providers and other companies to automate and improve the processing of requests for credit or service. These solutions increase the speed and efficiency with which requests are handled, reduce losses and increase approval rates through analytics that assess applicant risk, and reduce the need for manual review by loan officers. Our solutions include the web-based LiquidCredit® service, which is primarily focused on the credit decision and offered largely to mid-tier financial services institutions, e-commerce providers and telecommunications providers; and Capstone® Decision Manager, a complete end-user software solution for application decisioning and processing. In fiscal 2005, we introduced new components for the Capstone system that can be used with multiple originations platforms and environments. These components are Capstone Decision Accelerator, which is a rules-based application based on our Blaze Advisortm system, and Capstone Intelligent Data Manager, which enables lenders to access data from several consumer and small business credit data sources. We also offer custom and consortium-based credit risk and application fraud models. Customer Management Strategy Machine Solutions Our customer management products and services enable businesses to automate and improve decisions on their existing customers. These solutions help businesses decide which customers to cross-sell, what additional products and services to offer, whether customer risk levels have increased or decreased, when and how much to change a customer’s credit line, what pricing adjustments to make in response to account performance or promotional goals, and how to treat delinquent and high-risk accounts. We provide customer management solutions for: • Financial Services. In financial services, our leading account and customer management product is the TRIADtm adaptive control system. Our adaptive control systems are so named because they enable businesses to rapidly adapt to changing business and internal conditions by designing and testing new strategies in a “champion/challenger” environment. The TRIAD system is the world’s leading credit account management system, and our adaptive control systems are used by more than 250 issuers worldwide to manage approximately 65% of the world’s credit card accounts. Our latest version of the TRIAD system enables users to manage risk and communications at both the account and borrower level from a single platform. We also offer transaction-based neural network (the term neural network is defined under “Technology” later in this section) models called TRIAD Transaction Scores that help card issuers identify high-risk behavior more quickly and thus manage their credit card accounts more profitably. We market and sell TRIAD end-user software licenses, maintenance, consulting services, and strategy design and evaluation. Additionally, we provide TRIAD services and similar credit account management services through 12 third-party credit card processors worldwide, including the two largest processors in the U.S., First Data Resources, Inc. and Total System Services, Inc. We also provide the TRIAD system as a hosted service in Application Service Provider (“ASP”) mode. • Telecommunications. The TelAdaptive® account management system offers telecommunications service providers account management functionality similar to the TRIAD system, including receivables risk management, account spending limits, churn management and cross-sell communications. • Insurance. We provide property and casualty insurers with decision management solutions that enable them to create, test and implement decision strategies for areas such as cross-selling, pricing, claims handling, retention, prospecting and underwriting. 5 Table of Contents Fraud Strategy Machine Solutions Our fraud products improve our clients’ profitability by predicting the likelihood that a customer account is experiencing fraud. Our fraud products analyze customer transactions in real time and generate recommendations for immediate action, which is critical to stopping fraud and abuse. These applications can also detect some organized fraud schemes that are too complex and well-hidden to be identified by other methods. Our solutions are designed to detect and prevent a wide variety of fraud and risk types across multiple industries, including credit and debit payment card fraud; identity fraud; telecommunications subscription fraud, technical fraud and bad debt; healthcare fraud; Medicaid and Medicare fraud; and property and casualty insurance fraud, including workers’ compensation fraud. Fair Isaac fraud solutions protect merchants, financial institutions, insurance companies, telecommunications carriers, government agencies and employers from losses and damaged customer relationships caused by fraud. Our leading fraud detection solution is Falcontm Fraud Manager, recognized as the leader in global payment card fraud detection. Falcon Fraud Manager’s neural network predictive models and patented profiling technology, both further described below in the “Technology” section, examine transaction, cardholder and merchant data to detect a wide range of credit and debit card fraud quickly and accurately. Falcon Fraud Manager analyzes card transactions in real time, assesses the risk of fraud, and takes the user-defined steps to prevent fraud while expediting legitimate transactions. Falcon Fraud Manager protects hundreds of millions of active credit and debit card accounts, and is used in approximately 65% of all credit card transactions worldwide. Fraud Predictor with Merchant Profiles is used in conjunction with Falcon Fraud Manager to improve fraud detection rates by analyzing merchant profile data. The merchant profiles include characteristics that reveal, for example, merchants that have a history of higher fraud volumes, and which purchase types and ticket sizes have most often been fraudulent at a particular merchant. Falcon ID solution enables lenders and telecommunications service providers to control identity fraud across the customer lifecycle. Falcon ID relies on multiple sources of data and complex statistical modeling techniques to identify activity that is at high risk of stemming from identity theft. It also provides business rules management that companies can use to identify and resolve cases that appear to involve identity theft. In addition to the Falcon products for financial services institutions, we offer CardAlert Fraud Manager. CardAlert Fraud Manager is a solution for fighting debit and ATM fraud in the U.S. The CardAlert service identifies and reports counterfeit payment cards to issuers before the majority of them incur fraud losses. The service analyzes daily transactions across multiple financial institutions, and uses this data to pinpoint multi-card fraud and identify common points of compromise. We also provide a set of Fraud/Risk Analytics for Telecom solutions that are specifically designed to help telecommunications service providers reduce losses in four key areas. The bad debt solution is used to mitigate early-life and ongoing bad debt. The fraud solution is used to reduce complex types of fraud such as subscription fraud, technical fraud, internal fraud, dealer/agent fraud, calling card fraud, cloning and clip-on fraud. The revenue assurance solution predicts revenue leakage in the switch data collection, data mediation and billing/rating system phases. And the network assurance solution predicts problems in a telecommunications network by detecting intrusion, abuse or network integrity compromises. In addition, we offer RoamEx Roamer Data Exchanger, which delivers near real-time exchange of roamer call records that occur when subscribers roam outside a carrier’s home network. RoamEx Roamer Data Exchanger is used to exchange more than 90% of North American wireless carriers’ roamer call detail records. Collections & Recovery Strategy Machine Solutions Our leading solutions in this area are the Debt Managertm solution and the Recovery Management Systemtm (“RMStm”) solution. The Debt Manager solution automates the full cycle of collections and recovery, including early collections, late collections, asset disposal, agency placement, recovery, litigation, bankruptcy, asset management and residual balance recovery. The RMS solution is focused on the later phases of distressed debt management, including bankruptcy and agency management. Companies using the Debt Manager and RMS solutions can access partner services such as collection agencies and attorneys via the ScoreNet® network (formerly 6 Table of Contents BridgeLinktm), which provides web-based access to and from thousands of third-party collections and recovery service providers, as well as access to multiple data sources and Fair Isaac solutions hosted in ASP mode. Other solutions for collections and recovery include the PlacementsPlus service, an account placement optimization and management system; the Placement Optimizer® service, which uses artificial intelligence-based analytics used to identify the agency that is likely to collect the most for each account; and custom collection and recovery models implemented in an ASP environment. Those analytic-based solutions can also be delivered via the ScoreNet network. Mortgage Banking Strategy Machine Solutions Fair Isaac provides end-to-end mortgage lending solutions that mortgage lenders can use to improve their loan marketing, sourcing, originations, servicing and default management. These solutions include the Diamond loan origination solution, an internet-based solution that streamlines the complete mortgage process; the LSAMStm loan servicing and account management system for the servicing of mortgage and consumer loans; FORTRACS software for default management; and the LenStartm default management communication network for attorney referrals. This category also includes our TCLtm (The Construction Lender) solution, which enables lenders to manage the entire construction lending process. All of the mortgage solutions are integrated with Fair Isaac’s ScoreNet network (formerly BridgeLink), which provides real-time connectivity to a broad range of third-party service providers, business partners and external systems involved in the complex process of mortgage lending. Insurance and Healthcare Strategy Machine Solutions We provide software solutions and services that automate the review and repricing of medical bills for workers’ compensation and automobile medical injuries. Using these solutions, property and casualty insurers can automatically review and reprice a significant percentage of medical bills without human intervention. This allows for greater consistency and accuracy, which are important factors for regulatory compliance. Our principal solutions in this area are: • Fair Isaac SmartAdvisortm medical bill review software. The Fair Isaac SmartAdvisor solution provides medical bill review and repricing for workers’ compensation and automobile medical injury claims. It checks each bill against an extensive database of state fee schedules, automated contracts and user-defined policies to help insurers and others get the maximum savings on every bill reviewed. The SmartAdvisor software uses our business rules management technology to increase the speed, accuracy and consistency of decisions and reduce labor costs. It is available in both licensed client/server and ASP versions. • Insurance Service Bureau. Utilizing Fair Isaac’s medical bill review software, we provide turnkey insurance bill review administration services at selected locations across the country. These service bureau operations offer expert medical bill and preferred provider review for workers’ compensation and auto medical insurance bills, including the additional review of complex medical, hospital and surgical bills. We also provide fraud solutions for different segments of the insurance healthcare market. Our principal solutions in this area are: • Payment Optimizer® fraud detection system, which provides both prepayment claims scoring and retrospective analysis to help payers reduce fraud losses and ensure payment integrity. • VeriComp® Fraud Manager software, which uses neural networks and data analysis to identify potentially fraudulent workers’ compensation claims that need investigation or special handling. Additionally, we serve the insurance claims management market through our MIRAtm Claims Advisor product which uses predictive models to forecast appropriate claims reserves based on individual claim data. We also provide services that help healthcare payers reduce claims leakage and detect fraud, and that help hospitals determine payment strategies for patients during the admission process. 7 Table of Contents Consumer Strategy Machine Solutions Through our myFICO® division, we provide solutions based on our analytics to consumers, sold directly by us or through distribution partners. Consumers can use the myFICO.com website to purchase their FICO® scores, the credit reports underlying the scores, explanations of the factors affecting their scores, and customized advice on how to improve their scores. Customers can also use the myFICO service to simulate how taking specific actions would affect their FICO® score. The myFICO.com website is the only source for consumers to obtain their FICO® scores and credit reports from all three of the major U.S. credit reporting agencies. Consumers can also purchase Score Watchtm subscriptions, which deliver alerts via email and SMS or text messages when the user’s scores or balances change. The myFICO products and subscription offerings are available online at www.myfico.com, through two of the credit reporting agencies involved — Equifax Inc. (“Equifax”) and TransUnion Corporation (“TransUnion”) — and through lenders, financial portals and numerous other partners. Scoring Solutions We develop the world’s leading scores based on third-party data. Our FICO® scores are used in most U.S. credit decisions, by most of the major credit card organizations as well as by mortgage and auto loan originators. These scores provide a consistent and objective measure of an individual’s credit risk. Credit grantors use the FICO® scores to prescreen solicitation candidates, to evaluate applicants for new credit and to review existing accounts. The FICO® scores are calculated based on proprietary scoring models. The scores produced by these models are available through each of the three major credit reporting agencies in the United States: TransUnion, Experian Information Solutions, Inc. (“Experian”), and Equifax. Users generally pay the credit reporting agencies scoring fees based on usage, and the credit reporting agencies share these fees with us. The most powerful of our U.S. credit bureau products, NextGen FICO® risk scores, are also available at all three major credit-reporting agencies. NextGen FICO® risk scores provide a more refined risk assessment than the classic FICO® risk scores. We have expanded our scoring portfolio by analyzing data that is unavailable through the three major U.S. credit reporting agencies. The FICO® Expansiontm score provides scores on U.S. consumers who do not have traditional FICO® scores, generally because they do not have any credit accounts being reported to the credit reporting agencies. The score analyzes multiple sources of non-traditional credit data accessed by our subsidiary, Fair Isaac Network, Inc., and the score and associated reports are provided to lenders through a subsidiary called Fair Isaac Credit Services, Inc. The Fair Isaac® Qualifytm score helps marketers find prospects on their promotional mailing lists who are most likely to respond and to be approved for credit. This score is based on commercially available sources of marketing data, and is delivered by Fair Isaac. We also market a new score called the Global FICO® score that extends our thorough analysis of multiple-lender credit data to countries around the world that have established credit bureaus. These scores help lenders assess the risk of prospects, applicants and borrowers, and are particularly valuable in markets where there is not a dominant credit bureau risk score available. So far lenders and credit bureaus in 13 countries across four continents are using or implementing the Global FICO® score. In addition to the scores noted above, we have developed marketing and bankruptcy scores offered through the U.S. credit reporting agencies; an application fraud and a bankruptcy score available in Canada; consumer risk scores offered through credit reporting agencies in Canada, South Africa and the U.K.; commercial credit scores delivered by both U.S. and U.K. credit reporting agencies; and a bankruptcy scoring service offered through ISC, a subsidiary of Visa USA. We have also developed scoring systems for insurance underwriters and marketers. Such systems use the same underlying statistical technology as our FICO® risk scores, but are designed to predict applicant or policyholder insurance loss risk for automobile or homeowners’ coverage. Our insurance scores are available in the U.S. from TransUnion, Experian, Equifax and ChoicePoint, Inc., and in Canada from Equifax. In fiscal 2005, we introduced a new kind of insurance score called the Property PredictRtm score, which analyzes property inspection database data from an insurance services provider, Millennium Information Services, Inc., to calculate the loss risk of a property. 8 Table of Contents We also provide credit bureau scoring services and related consulting directly to users in financial services through two U.S.-based services: PreScore® Service for prescreening solicitation candidates, and the FICO® Score Delivery service (formerly known as ScoreNet Service) for customer account management. Professional Services We provide a variety of custom offerings, business solution and technical consulting services, systems integration services, and data management services to clients worldwide. The focus is on leveraging our industry experience and technical expertise, typically on a custom basis, to help clients address unique business challenges, to support the usage of our Strategy Machine® Solutions and our analytic software tools, and to create new sales opportunities for our other offerings. This group also performs consultative selling, developing customized solution sets combining various products and capabilities to meet unique client or industry opportunities. These services are generally offered on an hourly or fixed fee basis. In fiscal 2005, we acquired Braun Consulting, Inc. (“Braun”), a marketing strategy and technology consulting firm based in Chicago with offices in Boston and New York. As a result of this acquisition, we now offer a wider range of consulting services addressing business strategy, operational excellence and marketing best practice. This acquisition also increased our presence in the healthcare, retail and pharmaceutical industries. Our services include: • Solution and technology consulting. We help clients implement and use our solutions and technologies. These projects draw on our product knowledge, industry expertise and technical skills. Each project is delivered using our EDM consulting methodology. • Systems integration services. We help clients manage customer relationships more successfully through integrated customer systems and personalized content delivery. To accomplish this, we create common web platforms that leverage internet technologies such as portals (both internal and external), enterprise content management, web services and enterprise application integration. • Data management services. We help clients gain insight into their customers by enabling the access, analysis and application of corporate data and information. This work involves implementing enterprise-level data and decision management systems, including data warehouses and marts, campaign management tools, database marketing engines, rules-based decision engines and analytical applications. • Business strategy consulting. We help companies improve business performance through the design and implementation of customer-centric growth strategies. Using qualitative and quantitative research techniques, we help businesses determine which customer segments they should be targeting, what the sales and service proposition should be for each segment, and how to address organizational issues to ensure project success. Another key focus is helping companies comply with regulations such as the New Basel Capital Accord. • Industry consulting. We combine our knowledge of EDM technology with our consultants’ experience to address the specific needs of companies in the retail, pharmaceuticals, telecommunications, insurance, high-tech, travel/media/entertainment and healthcare industries. Our industry consultants provide a wide range of consulting services, including business strategy consulting and custom solutions development. • Strategy Science services. Using our Strategy Science technology and related advanced analytic methodologies, we perform decision modeling and optimization projects for customer acquisition, customer management, fraud, collections and other areas. These projects apply data and proprietary algorithms to the design of customer treatment strategies. • Predictive Science services. We perform custom predictive modeling and related analytic projects for clients in multiple industries. This work leverages our analytic methodologies and expertise to solve risk management and marketing challenges for a single business, using that business’s data and industry best practices to develop a highly customized solution. 9 Table of Contents • Fraud consulting services. We complement our fraud products with consulting engagements that help businesses benchmark their performance, assess areas to improve and adopt best practices and solutions aimed at reducing fraud losses. These engagements draw on Fair Isaac’s experience helping lenders and other parties worldwide bring fraud losses under control and implement more successful anti-fraud programs. Analytic Software Tools We provide end-user software products that businesses use to build their own tailored EDM applications. In contrast to our packaged Strategy Machine solutions developed for specific industry applications, our analytic software tools perform a single function — such as management of the rules and policies an enterprise uses to make decisions — that can be easily integrated within a variety of specialized industry applications. We use these tools as common software components for our own EDM applications, described above in the Strategy Machine Solutions section. We also partner with third-party providers within given industry markets and with major software companies to embed our tools within existing applications. These tools are sold as licensed software. The principal products offered are software tools for: • Rules Management. The Blaze Advisor business rules management system is used to design, develop, execute and maintain rules-based business applications. The Blaze Advisor system enables businesses to more quickly develop complex decision making applications, respond to changing customer needs, implement regulatory compliance and reduce the total cost of day-to-day operations. The Blaze Advisor system is sold as an end-user tool and is also the rules engine within several of our Strategy Machine solutions. In fiscal 2005, we introduced a software offering called SmartForms for Blaze Advisor that is used to create and manage dynamic, web-based forms that improve the completeness and accuracy of customer data collected online. In September 2005, we acquired certain assets of RulesPower, Inc. (“RulesPower”), including its advanced rules execution technology. The latest version of the Blaze Advisor system, released in fiscal 2006, is available in six languages. It is a multi-platform solution that supports Web Services and SOA, Java 2 Enterprise Edition (J2EE) platforms, Microsoft .NET and COBOL for z/OS mainframes, and is the first rules engine to support Java, .NET and COBOL deployment of the same rules. It also incorporates the exclusive Rete III rules execution technology acquired from RulesPower in fiscal 2005, which improves the efficiency and speed with which the Blaze Advisor system is able to process and execute complex, high-volume business rules. • Model Development. Model Builder for Predictive Analytics enables the user to develop and deploy sophisticated predictive models for use in automated decisions. This software is based on the methodology and tools Fair Isaac uses to build both client-level and industry-level predictive models, and which we have evolved over nearly 40 years. The predictive models produced can be embedded in custom production applications or one of our Strategy Machine Solutions, and can also be executed in Blaze Advisor. The latest version of Model Builder, released in fiscal 2006, includes an optional segmentation module that can improve the quality of predictions by using Fair Isaac genetic algorithms to find segments of the data population that can benefit from specialized predictive models. • Data-Driven Strategy Design. Model Builder for Decision Trees enables the user to create empirical strategies, augmenting the user’s expert judgment by applying data-driven analytics to discover patterns empirically. In designing the steps and criteria of a decision strategy, the user can segment the customer base for targeted action based on the results of different performance measures, and can simulate the performance of the designed strategy. Decision Optimizer, a key component in our Strategy Science offerings, uses an optimization algorithm to deliver customer treatment strategies or rule sets that improve results along one or more specified business objectives, while meeting stated constraints. The data-driven strategies produced by these tools can be executed by Blaze Advisor or one of our Strategy Machine Solutions. 10 Table of Contents COMPETITION The market for our advanced solutions is intensely competitive and is constantly changing. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope of the products and services they offer. We encounter competition from a number of sources, including: • in-house analytic and systems developers; • scoring model builders; • enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) and customer relationship management (“CRM”) packaged solutions providers; • business intelligence solutions providers; • providers of credit reports and credit scores; • providers of automated application processing services; • data vendors; • neural network developers and artificial intelligence system builders; • third-party professional services and consulting organizations; • providers of account/workflow management software; • managed care organizations; and • software companies supplying modeling, rules, or analytic development tools. We believe that none of our competitors offers the same mix of products as we do, or has the same expertise in predictive analytics and their integration with decision management software. However, certain competitors may have larger shares of particular geographic or product markets. Strategy Machine® Solutions The competition for our Strategy Machine Solutions varies by both application and industry. In the customer acquisition market, we compete with Acxiom, Experian, SAS, SPSS, Epsilon, Harte-Hanks, and Oracle, among others. We also compete with traditional advertising agencies and companies’ own internal information technology and analytics departments. In the origination market, we compete with CGI/AMS, Experian, Provenir, Lightbridge, Appro Systems, and First American Credit Management Solutions (CMSI), among others. In the customer management market, we compete with CGI/AMS and Experian, among others. In the fraud solutions market, we mainly compete with SearchSpace, ID Analytics, Experian, Retail Decisions plc and ACI Worldwide, a division of Transaction Systems Architects, in the financial services market; ECTel, Hewlett-Packard, Cerebrus Solutions and Neural Technologies in the telecommunications market; IBM and ViPS in the healthcare segment; and SAS, Infoglide Software Corporation, NetMap Analytics and Magnify in the property and casualty and workers’ compensation insurance market. In the collections and recovery solutions market, we mainly compete with CGI/AMS, Columbia Ultimate, Ontario Systems, Austin Logistics, Talgentra, Attentiv Systems and various boutique firms for software and ASP servicing and in-house scoring and computer science departments along with the three major U.S. credit reporting agencies and Experian-Scorex for scoring and optimization projects. In the mortgage lending solutions market, we mainly compete with Fidelity, Harland, Fiserv, 3T Systems, Gallagher, MortgageFlex and GHR. In the construction lending market, our main competitors are Harland and DataSelect. 11 Table of Contents In the insurance and healthcare solutions market, we mainly compete with Ingenix, First Health, CorVel Corporation, SAS, ISO, IBM, Mitchell International, Inc., and Concentra Managed Care. For our direct-to-consumer services that deliver credit scores, credit reports and consumer credit education services, we compete with our credit reporting agency partners and their affiliated companies, as well as with Trilegiant, InterSections and others. Scoring Solutions In this segment, we compete with both outside suppliers and in-house analytics and computer systems departments for scoring business. Major competitors among outside suppliers of scoring models include the three major U.S. credit reporting agencies, which are also our partners in offering our scoring solutions; Experian-Scorex, TransUnion International, CRIF and other credit reporting agencies outside the United States; and other data providers like LexisNexis and ChoicePoint. Professional Services We compete with a variety of organizations that offer consulting services, primarily specialty technology and consulting firms. In addition, a client may use its own resources rather than engage an outside firm for these services. Our competitors include information technology product and services vendors, management and strategy consulting firms, smaller specialized information technology consulting firms and analytical services firms. Analytic Software Tools Our primary competitors in this segment include SAS, SPSS, Angoss, ILOG, Computer Associates International and Pegasystems. Competitive Factors We believe the principal competitive factors affecting our markets include: technical performance; access to unique proprietary databases; availability in ASP format; product attributes like adaptability, scalability, interoperability, functionality and ease-of-use; product price; customer service and support; the effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts; existing market penetration; and our reputation. Although we believe our products and services compete favorably with respect to these factors, we may not be able to maintain our competitive position against current and future competitors. MARKETS AND CUSTOMERS Our products and services serve clients in multiple industries, including financial services, insurance, retail, telecommunications, healthcare, pharmaceuticals and governmental agencies. During fiscal 2006, end users of our products included more than 90 of the 100 largest financial institutions in the United States; approximately two-thirds of the largest 100 banks in the world; and more than 90 of the 100 largest U.S. credit card issuers. Our clients also include more than 300 insurers and healthcare payers, including the top 10 U.S. property and casualty insurers and more than half of the state workers’ compensation funds in the U.S.; more than 100 retailers and general merchandisers; more than 100 government or public agencies; more than 100 telecommunications carriers, including nine of the top ten U.S. wireless providers and eight of the top ten U.S. wireline providers; and more than 150 healthcare and pharmaceuticals companies, including eight of the world’s top ten pharmaceuticals companies. Nine of the top ten companies on the 2006 Fortune 500 list use Fair Isaac’s solutions. In addition, our consumer services are marketed to an estimated 200 million U.S. consumers whose credit relationships are reported to the three major credit reporting agencies. In the United States, we market our products and services primarily through our own direct sales organization that is organized around Integrated Client Networks, or “ICNs”, which are sales teams that focus on customer segments typically aligned by vertical market and geography. Sales groups are based in our headquarters and in field offices strategically located 12 Table of Contents both in and outside the United States. We also market our products through indirect channels, including alliance partners and other resellers. During fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, revenues generated from our agreements with Equifax, TransUnion and Experian collectively accounted for 18%, 17% and 16% of our total revenues, respectively. Outside the United States, we market our products and services primarily through our subsidiary sales organizations. Our subsidiaries license and support our products in their local countries as well as within other foreign countries where we do not operate through a direct sales subsidiary. We also market our products through resellers and independent distributors in international territories not covered by our subsidiaries’ direct sales organizations. Our largest market segments outside the United States are the United Kingdom and Canada. In addition, we have delivered products to users in over 60 countries. Revenues from international customers, including end users and resellers, amounted to 28%, 25% and 22% of our total revenues in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. See Note 16 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a summary of our operating segments and geographic information. TECHNOLOGY We specialize in analytics, software and data management technologies that analyze data and drive business processes and decision strategies. We maintain active research in a number of fields for the purposes of deriving greater insight and predictive value from data, making various forms of data more usable and valuable to the model-building process, and automating and applying analytics to the various processes involved in making high-volume decisions in real time. Because of our pioneering work in credit scoring and fraud detection, we are widely recognized as the leader in predictive analytics. In addition, our Blaze Advisor software is consistently ranked as a leader in rules management systems. In all our work, we believe that our tools and processes are among the very best commercially available, and that we are uniquely able to integrate advanced analytic, software and data technologies into mission-critical business solutions that offer superior returns on investment. Principal Areas of Expertise Predictive Modeling. Predictive modeling identifies and mathematically represents underlying relationships in historical data in order to explain the data and make predictions or classifications about future events. Our models summarize large quantities of data to amplify its value. Predictive models typically analyze current and historical data on individuals to produce easily understood metrics such as scores. These scores rank-order individuals by likely future performance, e.g., their likelihood of making credit payments on time, or of responding to a particular offer for services. We also include in this category models that detect the likelihood of a transaction being fraudulent. Our predictive models are frequently operationalized in mission-critical transactional systems and drive decisions and actions in near real time. A number of analytic methodologies underlie our products in this area. These include proprietary applications of both linear and non-linear mathematical programming algorithms, in which one objective is optimized within a set of constraints, and advanced “neural” systems, which learn complex patterns from large data sets to predict the probability that a new individual will exhibit certain behaviors of business interest. We also apply various related statistical techniques for analysis and pattern detection within large datasets. For example, we recently developed a proprietary technology we call “Peacock,” which can analyze large-scale purchase transaction data to reveal product relationships, purchase patterns and sequences. Decision Analysis and Optimization. Decision analysis refers to the broad quantitative field that deals with modeling, analyzing and optimizing decisions made by individuals, groups and organizations. Whereas predictive models analyze multiple aspects of individual behavior to forecast future behavior, decision analysis analyzes multiple aspects of a given decision to identify the most effective action to take to reach a desired result. We have developed an integrated approach to decision analysis that incorporates the development of a decision model that mathematically maps the entire decision structure; proprietary optimization technology that identifies the most 13 Table of Contents effective strategies, given both the performance objective and constraints; the development of designed testing required for active, continuous learning; and the robust extrapolation of an optimized strategy to a wider set of scenarios than historically encountered. This technology is behind our Strategy Science solutions. Transaction Profiling. Transaction profiling is a patent-protected technique used to extract meaningful information and reduce the complexity of transaction data used in modeling. Many of our products operate using transactional data, such as credit card purchase transactions, or other types of data that change over time. In its raw form, this data is very difficult to use in predictive models for several reasons: First, an isolated transaction contains very little information about the behavior of the individual that generated the transaction. In addition, transaction patterns change rapidly over time. Finally, this type of data can often be highly complex. To overcome these issues, we have developed a set of proprietary techniques that transform raw transactional data into a mathematical representation that reveals latent information, and which make the data more usable by predictive models. This profiling technology accumulates data across multiple transactions of many types to create and update profiles of transaction patterns. These profiles enable our neural network models to efficiently and effectively make accurate assessments of, for example, fraud risk and credit risk within real-time transaction streams. Customer Data Integration. Decisions made on customers or prospects can benefit from data stored in multiple sources, both inside and outside the enterprise. We have focused on developing data integration processes that are able to assemble and integrate those disparate data sources into a unified view of the customer or household, through the application of persistent keying technology. Decision Management Software. In order to make a decision strategy operational, the various steps and rules need to be programmed or exported into the business’ software infrastructure, where it can communicate with front-end, customer-facing systems and back-end systems such as billing systems. We have developed software systems, sometimes known as decision engines and business rules management systems that perform the necessary functions to execute a decision strategy. Our software includes very efficient programs for these functions, facilitating, for example, business user definition of extremely complex decision strategies using graphic user interfaces; simultaneous testing of hundreds of decision strategies in “champion/challenger” (test/control) mode; high-volume processing and analysis of transactions in real time; integration of multiple data sources; and execution of predictive models for improved behavior forecasts and finer segmentation. Research and Development Activities Our research and development expenses were $85.0 million, $81.3 million, and $71.1 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to continually maintain and improve our core technologies, enhance our existing products, and develop new products and technologies that meet an expanding range of markets and customer requirements. In the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, we use our own development tools extensively. We have traditionally relied primarily on the internal development of our products. Based on timing and cost considerations, however, we have acquired, and in the future may consider acquiring, technology or products from third parties. PRODUCT PROTECTION AND TRADEMARKS We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements and procedures to protect our proprietary rights. We retain the title to and protect the suite of models and software used to develop scoring models as a trade secret. We also restrict access to our source code and limit access to and distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary information. We have generally relied upon the laws protecting trade secrets and upon contractual non-disclosure safeguards and restrictions on transferability to protect our software and proprietary interests in our product and service methodology and know-how. Our confidentiality procedures include invention assignment and proprietary information agreements with our employees and independent contractors, and nondisclosure agreements with our distributors, strategic partners and customers. We also claim copyright protection for certain proprietary software and documentation. 14 Table of Contents We have patents on many of our technologies and have patent applications pending on other technologies. The patents we hold may not be upheld as valid and may not prevent the development of competitive products. In addition, patents may never be issued on our pending patent applications or on any future applications that we may submit. We currently hold 39 U.S. and 11 foreign patents with 105 applications pending. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for competitors or users to copy or reproduce aspects of our software or to obtain information that we regard as trade secrets. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Patents and other protections for our intellectual property are important, but we believe our success and growth will depend principally on such factors as the knowledge, ability, experience and creative skills of our personnel, new products, frequent product enhancements and name recognition. We have developed technologies for research projects conducted under agreements with various United States government agencies or their subcontractors. Although we have acquired commercial rights to these technologies, the United States government typically retains ownership of intellectual property rights and licenses in the technologies that we develop under these contracts. In some cases, the United States government can terminate our rights to these technologies if we fail to commercialize them on a timely basis. In addition, under United States government contracts, the government may make the results of our research public, which could limit our competitive advantage with respect to future products based on funded research. We have used, registered and/or applied to register certain trademarks and service marks for our technologies, products and services. We currently have 36 trademarks registered in the U.S. and select foreign countries. PERSONNEL As of September 30, 2006, we employed 2,737 persons worldwide. Of these, 403 full-time employees were located in our Minneapolis and Arden Hills, Minnesota offices, 351 full-time employees were located in our San Rafael, California office, 378 full-time employees were located in our San Diego, California office, and 225 full-time employees were located in our United Kingdom-based offices. None of our employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement and no work stoppages have been experienced. Information regarding our officers is included in “Executive Officers of the Registrant” at the end of Part I of this report. Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We have expanded the pursuit of our EDM strategy, and we may not be successful. We have expanded the pursuit of our business objective to become a leader in helping businesses automate and improve decisions across their enterprises, an approach that we commonly refer to as Enterprise Decision Management, or “EDM”. Our EDM strategy is designed to enable us to increase our business by selling multiple products to clients, as well as to enable the development of custom client solutions that may lead to opportunities to develop new proprietary scores or other new proprietary products. The market may be unreceptive to this general EDM business approach, including being unreceptive to purchasing multiple products from us or unreceptive to our customized solutions. If our EDM strategy is not successful, we may not be able to grow our business, growth may occur more slowly than we anticipate or our revenues and profits may decline. We recently restructured the method by which we sell our products and services and if our new sales strategy is not successful, our business will be harmed. Previously, we sold our products and services in a product-focused manner. As part of our expanded EDM strategy, we now sell our products and services using a client-centric approach which focuses on delivering 15 Table of Contents complete solutions involving multiple products or suites of products for our customers through various means, including the use of client teams called Integrated Client Networks (or “ICNs”) that focus on customers by vertical market and geography, and the use of an integrated consulting and sales approach. If our employees are not able to adjust rapidly enough to this ICN approach, then we may be unable to maintain or increase our revenues. Further, there can be no assurance that our customers and potential customers will react positively to EDM or this new selling approach and, as a result, that we will continue to maintain or increase revenues. If revenues eventually increase as a result of this change, there is no assurance that any increase will occur as quickly as we might anticipate. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a small number of products and services, and if the market does not continue to accept these products and services, our revenues will decline. As we attempt to implement our EDM strategy, we expect that revenues derived from our scoring solutions, account management solutions, fraud solutions, originations, collections, and insurance solutions products and services will continue to account for a substantial portion of our total revenues for the foreseeable future. Our revenues will decline if the market does not continue to accept these products and services. Factors that might affect the market acceptance of these products and services include the following: • changes in the business analytics industry; • changes in technology; • our inability to obtain or use state fee schedule or claims data in our insurance products; • saturation of market demand; • loss of key customers; • industry consolidation; • failure to execute our client-centric selling approach; and • inability to successfully sell our products in new vertical markets. If we are unable to access new markets or develop new distribution channels, our business and growth prospects could suffer. We expect that part of the growth that we seek to achieve through our EDM strategy will be derived from the sale of EDM products and service solutions in industries and markets we do not currently serve. We also expect to grow our business by delivering our EDM solutions through additional distribution channels. If we fail to penetrate these industries and markets to the degree we anticipate utilizing our EDM strategy, or if we fail to develop additional distribution channels, we may not be able to grow our business, growth may occur more slowly than we anticipate or our revenues and profits may decline. If we are unable to develop successful new products or if we experience defects, failures and delays associated with the introduction of new products, our business could suffer serious harm. Our growth and the success of our EDM strategy depends upon our ability to develop and sell new products or suites of products. If we are unable to develop new products, or if we are not successful in introducing new products, we may not be able to grow our business, or growth may occur more slowly than we anticipate. In addition, significant undetected errors or delays in new products or new versions of products may affect market acceptance of our products and could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the past, we have experienced delays while developing and introducing new products and product enhancements, primarily due to difficulties developing models, acquiring data and adapting to particular operating environments. We have also experienced errors or “bugs” in our software products, despite testing prior to release of the products. Software errors in our products could affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. Errors or defects in our products that are significant, or are perceived to be 16 Table of Contents significant, could result in: rejection of our products, damage to our reputation, loss of revenues, diversion of development resources, increase in product liability claims, and increases in service and support costs and warranty claims. We rely on relatively few customers, as well as our contracts with the three major credit reporting agencies, for a significant portion of our revenues and profits. If the terms of these relationships change, our revenues and operating results could decline. Most of our customers are relatively large enterprises, such as banks, credit card processors, insurance companies, healthcare firms, retailers and telecommunications carriers. As a result, many of our customers and potential customers are significantly larger than we are and may have sufficient bargaining power to demand reduced prices and favorable nonstandard terms. We also derive a substantial portion of our revenues and operating income from our contracts with the three major credit reporting agencies, TransUnion, Equifax and Experian, and other parties that distribute our products to certain markets. We are also currently involved in litigation with TransUnion, Equifax and Experian arising from their development and marketing of a credit scoring product competitive with our products. We have asserted various claims, including claims of unfair competition and antitrust, against each of the credit reporting agencies and their collective joint venture entity, VantageScore, LLC. This litigation could have a material adverse effect on our relationship with one or more of the major credit reporting agencies, or with major customers. The loss of or a significant change in a relationship with a major customer, the loss of or a significant change in a relationship with one of the major credit reporting agencies with respect to their distribution of our products or with respect to our myFICO offerings, the loss of or a significant change in a relationship with a significant third-party distributor or the delay of significant revenues from these sources, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We rely on relationships with third parties for marketing and distribution. If we experience difficulties in these relationships, our future revenues may be adversely affected. Our Scoring Solutions segment and Strategy Machine Solutions segment rely on distributors, and we intend to continue to market and distribute our products through existing and future distributor relationships. Our Scoring Solutions segment relies on, among others, TransUnion, Equifax and Experian. Failure of our existing and future distributors to generate significant revenues, demands by such distributors to change the terms on which they offer our products or our failure to establish additional distribution or sales and marketing alliances could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, certain of our distributors presently compete with us and may compete with us in the future either by developing competitive products themselves or by distributing competitive offerings. For example, TransUnion, Equifax and Experian have developed a credit scoring product to compete directly with our products and are collectively attempting to sell the product. Competition from distributors or other sales and marketing partners could significantly harm sales of our products. If we do not engage in acquisition activity to the extent we have in the past, we may be unable to increase our revenues at historical growth rates. Our historical revenue growth has been augmented by numerous acquisitions, and we anticipate that acquisitions will continue to be an important part of our revenue growth. Our future revenue growth rate may decline if we do not make acquisitions of similar size and at a comparable rate as in the past. 17 Table of Contents If we engage in acquisitions, significant investments in new businesses, or divestitures of existing businesses, we will incur a variety of risks, any of which may adversely affect our business. We have made in the past, and may make in the future, acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer complementary products, services and technologies. Any acquisitions or investments will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of businesses, which may include: • failure to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined business; • overpayment for the acquired companies or assets; • difficulty assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; • product liability exposure associated with acquired businesses or the sale of their products; • disruption of our ongoing business; • dilution of our existing stockholders and earnings per share; • unanticipated liabilities, legal risks and costs; • retention of key personnel; • distraction of management from our ongoing business; and • impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of integration of new management personnel. We have also divested ourselves of businesses in the past, and may do so again in the future. Any divestitures will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in the sale of businesses, which may include: • disruption of our ongoing business; • dilution of our existing stockholders and earnings per share; • unanticipated liabilities, legal risks and costs; • retention of key personnel; • distraction of management from our ongoing business; and • impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of migrating a business to new owners. These risks could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations, particularly if they occur in the context of a significant acquisition. Acquisitions of businesses having a significant presence outside the U.S. will increase our exposure to the risks of conducting operations in international markets. The occurrence of certain negative events may cause fluctuations in our stock price. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations due to a number of factors, including variations in our revenues and operating results. We believe that you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of financial results as an indication of future performance. Because many of our operating expenses are fixed and will not be affected by short-term fluctuations in revenues, short-term fluctuations in revenues may significantly impact operating results. Additional factors that may cause our stock price to fluctuate include the following: • variability in demand from our existing customers; • failure to meet the expectations of market analysts; • changes in recommendations by market analysts; • the lengthy and variable sales cycle of many products, combined with the relatively large size of orders for our products, increases the likelihood of short-term fluctuation in revenues; 18 Table of Contents • consumer dissatisfaction with, or problems caused by, the performance of our products; • the timing of new product announcements and introductions in comparison with our competitors; • the level of our operating expenses; • changes in competitive conditions in the consumer credit, financial services and insurance industries; • fluctuations in domestic and international economic conditions; • our ability to complete large installations on schedule and within budget; • acquisition-related expenses and charges; and • timing of orders for and deliveries of software systems. In addition, the financial markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the stock prices of many technology companies, and these fluctuations sometimes have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market fluctuations, as well as industry-specific and general economic conditions may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our products have long and variable sales cycles. If we do not accurately predict these cycles, we may not forecast our financial results accurately and our stock price could be adversely affected. We experience difficulty in forecasting our revenues accurately because the length of our sales cycles makes it difficult for us to predict the quarter in which sales will occur. In addition, our ICN selling approach is more complex than our prior sales approach because it emphasizes the sale of complete EDM solutions involving multiple products or services across our customers’ organizations. This also makes forecasting of revenues in any given period more difficult. As a result of our ICN approach and lengthening sales cycles, revenues and operating results may vary significantly from period to period. For example, the sales cycle for licensing our products typically ranges from 60 days to 18 months. Customers are often cautious in making decisions to acquire our products, because purchasing our products typically involves a significant commitment of capital, and may involve shifts by the customer to a new software and/or hardware platform or changes in the customer’s operational procedures. Since our EDM strategy contemplates the sale of multiple decision solutions to a customer, expenditures by any given customer may be larger than with our prior sales approach. This may cause customers to make purchasing decisions more cautiously. Delays in completing sales can arise while customers complete their internal procedures to approve large capital expenditures and test and accept our applications. Consequently, we face difficulty predicting the quarter in which sales to expected customers will occur and experience fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. If we are unable to accurately forecast our revenues, our stock price could be adversely affected. We typically have revenue-generating transactions concentrated in the final weeks of a quarter which may prevent accurate forecasting of our financial results and cause our stock price to decline. Large portions of our software license agreements are consummated in the weeks immediately preceding quarter end. Before these agreements are consummated we create and rely on forecasted revenues for planning, modeling and earnings guidance. Forecasts, however, are only estimates and actual results may vary for a particular quarter or longer periods of time. Consequently, significant discrepancies between actual and forecasted results could limit our ability to plan, budget or provide accurate guidance, which could adversely affect our stock price. Any publicly-stated revenue or earnings projections are subject to this risk. The failure to recruit and retain additional qualified personnel could hinder our ability to successfully manage our business. Our EDM strategy and our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain experienced sales, consulting, research and development, marketing, technical support and management personnel. The complexity of our products requires highly trained customer service and technical support personnel to assist customers with product installation and deployment. The labor market for these individuals is very competitive due 19 Table of Contents to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding and may become more competitive with general market and economic improvement. We cannot be certain that our compensation strategies will be perceived as competitive by current or prospective employees. This could impair our ability to recruit and retain personnel. We have experienced difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel, especially technical, sales and consulting personnel, and we may need additional staff to support new customers and/or increased customer needs. We may also recruit skilled technical professionals from other countries to work in the United States. Limitations imposed by immigration laws in the United States and abroad and the availability of visas in the countries where we do business could hinder our ability to attract necessary qualified personnel and harm our business and future operating results. There is a risk that even if we invest significant resources in attempting to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, we will not succeed in our efforts, and our business could be harmed. Non-appreciation in the value of our stock may adversely affect our ability to use equity and equity based incentive plans to attract and retain personnel, and may require us to use alternative and more expensive forms of compensation for this purpose. The failure to obtain certain forms of model construction data from our customers or others could harm our business. We must develop or obtain a reliable source of sufficient amounts of current and statistically relevant data to analyze transactions and update our products. In most cases, these data must be periodically updated and refreshed to enable our products to continue to work effectively in a changing environment. We do not own or control much of the data that we require, most of which is collected privately and maintained in proprietary databases. Customers and key business alliances provide us the data we require to analyze transactions, report results and build new models. Our EDM strategy depends in part upon our ability to access new forms of data to develop custom and proprietary analytic tools. If we fail to maintain sufficient sourcing relationships with our customers and business alliances, or if they decline to provide such data due to legal privacy concerns, competition concerns, prohibitions or a lack of permission from their customers, we could lose access to required data and our products might become less effective. In addition, certain of our insurance solutions products use data from state workers’ compensation fee schedules adopted by state regulatory agencies. Third parties have asserted copyright interests in these data, and these assertions, if successful, could prevent us from using these data. Any interruption of our supply of data could seriously harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We will continue to rely upon proprietary technology rights, and if we are unable to protect them, our business could be harmed. Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. To date, we have relied primarily on a combination of copyright, patent, trade secret, and trademark laws, and nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions on copying and distribution to protect our proprietary technology. This protection of our proprietary technology is limited, and our proprietary technology could be used by others without our consent. In addition, patents may not be issued with respect to our pending or future patent applications, and our patents may not be upheld as valid or may not prevent the development of competitive products. Any disclosure, loss, invalidity of, or failure to protect our intellectual property could negatively impact our competitive position, and ultimately, our business. There can be no assurance that our protection of our intellectual property rights in the United States or abroad will be adequate or that others, including our competitors, will not use our proprietary technology without our consent. Furthermore, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Some of our technologies were developed under research projects conducted under agreements with various U.S. government agencies or subcontractors. Although we have commercial rights to these technologies, the U.S. government typically retains ownership of intellectual property rights and licenses in the technologies developed by us under these contracts, and in some cases can terminate our rights in these technologies if we fail to commercialize them on a timely basis. Under these contracts with the U.S. government, the results of research may 20 Table of Contents be made public by the government, limiting our competitive advantage with respect to future products based on our research. If we are subject to infringement claims, it could harm our business. With recent developments in the law that permit patenting of business methods, we expect that products in the industry segments in which we compete, including software products, will increasingly be subject to claims of patent infringement as the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grow. We may need to defend claims that our products infringe patent, copyright or other rights, and as a result we may: • incur significant defense costs or substantial damages; • be required to cease the use or sale of infringing products; • expend significant resources to develop or license a substitute non-infringing technology; • discontinue the use of some technology; or • be required to obtain a license under the intellectual property rights of the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available or might require substantial royalties or license fees that would reduce our margins. Breaches of security, or the perception that e-commerce is not secure, could harm our business. Our business requires the appropriate and secure utilization of consumer and other sensitive information. Internet-based, electronic commerce requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, and several of our products are accessed through the Internet, including our consumer services accessible through the www.myFICO.com website. Security breaches in connection with the delivery of our products and services, including products and services utilizing the Internet, or well-publicized security breaches, and the trend toward broad consumer and general public notification of such incidents, could significantly harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, discovery of new vulnerabilities, attempts to exploit vulnerabilities in our systems, data thefts, physical system or network break-ins or inappropriate access, or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access our net-sourced products, consumer services and proprietary database information. Protection from system interruptions is important to our business. If we experience a sustained interruption of our telecommunication systems it could harm our business. Systems or network interruptions could delay and disrupt our ability to develop, deliver or maintain our products and services, causing harm to our business and reputation and resulting in loss of customers or revenue. These interruptions can include fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, equipment failures and other events beyond our control. Risks Related to Our Industry Our ability to increase our revenues will depend to some extent upon introducing new products and services. If the marketplace does not accept these new products and services, our revenues may decline. We have a significant share of the available market in portions of our Scoring Solutions segment and for certain services in our Strategy Machine Solutions segment, specifically, the markets for account management services at credit card processors and credit card fraud detection software. To increase our revenues, we must enhance and improve existing products and continue to introduce new products and new versions of existing products that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements and achieve market acceptance. We believe much of the future growth of our business and the success of our EDM strategy will rest on our ability to continue to expand into newer markets for our products and services, such as direct marketing, healthcare, insurance, small business lending, retail, telecommunications, personal credit management, the design of business strategies using Strategy Science technology and Internet services. These areas are relatively new to our product development and sales and marketing personnel. Products that we plan to market in the future are in various 21 Table of Contents stages of development. We cannot assure you that the marketplace will accept these products. If our current or potential customers are not willing to switch to or adopt our new products and services, our revenues will decrease. If we fail to keep up with rapidly changing technologies, our products could become less competitive or obsolete. In our markets, technology changes rapidly, and there are continuous improvements in computer hardware, network operating systems, programming tools, programming languages, operating systems, database technology and the use of the Internet. If we fail to enhance our current products and develop new products in response to changes in technology or industry standards, or if we fail to bring product enhancements or new product developments to market quickly enough, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. For example, the rapid growth of the Internet environment creates new opportunities, risks and uncertainties for businesses, such as ours, which develop software that must also be designed to operate in Internet, intranet and other online environments. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to: • innovate by internally developing new and competitive technologies; • use leading third-party technologies effectively; • continue to develop our technical expertise; • anticipate and effectively respond to changing customer needs; • initiate new product introductions in a way that minimizes the impact of customers delaying purchases of existing products in anticipation of new product releases; and • influence and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. If our competitors introduce new products and pricing strategies, it could decrease our product sales and market share, or could pressure us to reduce our product prices in a manner that reduces our margins. We may not be able to compete successfully against our competitors, and this inability could impair our capacity to sell our products. The market for business analytics is new, rapidly evolving and highly competitive, and we expect competition in this market to persist and intensify. Our regional and global competitors vary in size and in the scope of the products and services they offer, and include: • in-house analytic and systems developers; • scoring model builders; • enterprise resource planning (ERP) and customer relationship management (CRM) packaged solutions providers; • business intelligence solutions providers; • credit report and credit score providers; • business process management solution providers; • process modeling tools providers; • automated application processing services providers; • data vendors; • neural network developers and artificial intelligence system builders; • third-party professional services and consulting organizations; • account/workflow management software providers; 22 Table of Contents • managed care organizations; and • software tools companies supplying modeling, rules, or analytic development tools. We expect to experience additional competition from other established and emerging companies, as well as from other technologies. For example, certain of our fraud solutions products compete against other methods of preventing credit card fraud, such as credit cards that contain the cardholder’s photograph, smart cards, cardholder verification and authentication solutions and other card authorization techniques. Many of our anticipated competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, professional services and other resources than we do and industry consolidation is creating even larger competitors in many of our markets. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources than we can to develop, promote and sell their products. Many of these companies have extensive customer relationships, including relationships with many of our current and potential customers. Furthermore, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. For example, TransUnion, Equifax and Experian have formed an alliance that has developed a credit scoring product competitive with our products. If we are unable to respond as quickly or effectively to changes in customer requirements as our competition, our ability to expand our business and sell our products will be negatively affected. Our competitors may be able to sell products competitive to ours at lower prices individually or as part of integrated suites of several related products. This ability may cause our customers to purchase products that directly compete with our products from our competitors. Price reductions by our competitors could negatively impact our margins, and could also harm our ability to obtain new long-term contracts and renewals of existing long-term contracts on favorable terms. Government regulations that apply to us or to our customers may expose us to liability, affect our ability to compete in certain markets, limit the profitability of or demand for our products, or render our products obsolete. If these regulations are applied or are further developed in ways adverse to us, it could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Legislation and governmental regulation affect how our business is conducted and, in some cases, subject us to the possibility of future lawsuits arising from our products and services. Globally, legislation and governmental regulation also influence our current and prospective customers’ activities, as well as their expectations and needs in relation to our products and services. Both our core businesses and our newer initiatives are affected globally by federal, regional, provincial, state and other jurisdictional regulations, including those in the following significant regulatory areas: • Consumer report data and consumer reporting agencies. Examples in the U.S. include: the Fair Credit Reporting Act (“FCRA”), the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (“FACTA”), which amends FCRA, and certain proposed regulations under FACTA, presently under consideration; • Identity theft and loss of data. Examples include FACTA and other regulations modeled after the current California Security Breach Notification Act, that require consumer notification of security breach incidents and additional federal and state legislative enactments in this area; • Fair and non-discriminatory lending practices, such as the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (“ECOA”); • Privacy-related laws, including but not limited to the provisions of the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999, also known as the Gramm Leach Bliley Act (“GLBA”), the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (“USA Patriot Act”) and similar state privacy laws; • Extension of credit to consumers through the Electronic Fund Transfers Act, as well as non-governmental VISA and MasterCard electronic payment standards; • Quasi-governmental regulations, such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac regulations for our mortgage services products; 23 Table of Contents • Insurance regulations related to our insurance products; • The application or extension of consumer protection laws, including, state and federal laws governing the use of the Internet and telemarketing, and credit repair; • Jurisdictional regulations applicable to international operations, including the European Union’s Privacy Directive; and • Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“SOX”) regulations to verify internal process controls and require material event awareness and notification. In making credit evaluations of consumers, performing fraud screening or user authentication, our customers are subject to requirements of multiple jurisdictions which may impose contradictory requirements. Privacy legislation such as GLBA or the European Union’s Privacy Directive may also affect the nature and extent of the products or services that we can provide to customers, as well as our ability to collect, monitor and disseminate information subject to privacy protection. In addition to existing regulation, changes in legislative, judicial, regulatory or consumer environments could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. For example, the FACTA amendments to FCRA will result in new regulation. These regulations or the interpretation of these amendments could affect the demand for or profitability of some of our products, including scoring and consumer products. New regulations pertaining to financial institutions could cause them to pursue new strategies, reducing the demand for our products. In addition, legislative reforms of workers’ compensation laws that aim to simplify this area of regulation and curb abuses could diminish the need for, and the benefits provided by, certain of our insurance solutions products and services. Our revenues depend, to a great extent, upon conditions in the consumer credit, financial services and insurance industries. If any of our clients’ industries experiences a downturn, it could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. During fiscal 2006, 71% of our revenues were derived from sales of products and services to the consumer credit, financial services and insurance industries. A downturn in the consumer credit, the financial services or the insurance industry, including a downturn caused by increases in interest rates or a tightening of credit, among other factors, could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. While the rate of account growth in the U.S. bankcard industry has been slowing and many of our large institutional customers have merged and consolidated in recent years, we have generated most of our revenue growth from our bankcard-related scoring and account management businesses by selling and cross-selling our products and services to large banks and other credit issuers. As this industry continues to consolidate, we may have fewer opportunities for revenue growth due to changing demand for our products and services that support customer acquisition programs of our customers. In addition, industry consolidation could affect the base of recurring revenues derived from contracts in which we are paid on a per-transaction basis if consolidated customers combine their operations under one contract. There can be no assurance that we will be able effectively to promote future revenue growth in our businesses. While we are expanding our sales of consumer credit, financial services and insurance products and services into international markets, the risks are greater as we are less well-known and some of these markets are in their infancy. Risk Related to External Conditions If any of a number of material adverse developments occurs in general economic conditions and world events, such developments could affect demand for our products and services and harm our business. Purchases of technology products and services and decisioning solutions are subject to adverse economic conditions. When an economy is struggling, companies in many industries delay or reduce technology purchases, and we experience softened demand for our decisioning solutions and other products and services. If the current improvement in global economic conditions slows or reverses, or if there is an escalation in regional or continued global conflicts or terrorism, we may experience reductions in capital expenditures by our customers, longer sales cycles, deferral or delay of purchase commitments for our products and increased price competition, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents In operations outside the United States, we are subject to unique risks that may harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. A growing portion of our revenues is derived from international sales. During fiscal 2006 28% of our revenues were derived from business outside the United States. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to continue to pursue opportunities outside the United States, including opportunities in countries with economic systems that are in early stages of development and that may not mature sufficiently to yield growth for our business. Accordingly, our future operating results could be negatively affected by a variety of factors arising out of international commerce, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • general economic and political conditions in countries where we sell our products and services; • difficulty in staffing and efficiently managing our operations in multiple geographic locations and in various countries; • effects of a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including restrictions on access to personal information; • import and export licensing requirements; • longer payment cycles; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights; • currency fluctuations; • changes in tariffs and other trade barriers; and • difficulties and delays in translating products and related documentation into foreign languages. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully address each of these challenges in the near term. Additionally, some of our business will be conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are not currently material to our cash flows, financial position or results of operations. However, an increase in our foreign revenues could subject us to increased foreign currency transaction risks in the future. In addition to the risk of depending on international sales, we have risks incurred in having research and development personnel located in various international locations. We currently have approximately 20% of our product development staff in international locations, some of which have political and developmental risks. If such risks materialize, our business could be damaged. Our anti-takeover defenses could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of Fair Isaac, thereby limiting the demand for our securities by certain types of purchasers or the price investors are willing to pay for our stock. Certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us difficult, even if such events would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These provisions include adopting a Shareholder Rights Agreement, commonly known as a “poison pill,” and giving our board the ability to issue preferred stock and determine the rights and designations of the preferred stock at any time without stockholder approval. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These factors and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the fair market value of our common stock. 25 Table of Contents If we experience changes in tax laws or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns, it could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to federal and state income taxes in the United States and in certain foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, by our ability to generate taxable income in foreign jurisdictions in order to utilize foreign tax losses, and by the valuation of our deferred tax assets. In addition, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from such examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from such examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 