Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We have expanded the pursuit of our Decision Management strategy, and we may not be successful, which could cause our growth prospects and results of operations to suffer. We have expanded the pursuit of our business objective to become a leader in helping businesses automate and improve decisions across their enterprises, an approach that we commonly refer to as Decision Management, or “DM.” Our DM strategy is designed to enable us to increase our business by selling multiple products to clients, as well as to enable the development of custom client solutions that may lead to opportunities to develop new proprietary scores or other new proprietary products. The market may be unreceptive to this general DM business approach, including being unreceptive to purchasing multiple products from us or unreceptive to our customized solutions. If our DM strategy is not successful, we may not be able to grow our business, growth may occur more slowly than we anticipate or our revenues and profits may decline. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a small number of products and services, and if the market does not continue to accept these products and services, our revenues will decline. We expect that revenues derived from our scoring solutions, fraud solutions, customer management solutions and tools will continue to account for a substantial portion of our total revenues for the foreseeable future. Our revenues will decline if the market does not continue to accept these products and services. Factors that might affect the market acceptance of these products and services include the following: • changes in the business analytics industry; • changes in technology; • our inability to obtain or use key data for our products; • saturation or contraction of market demand; • loss of key customers; • industry consolidation; • failure to execute our selling approach; and • inability to successfully sell our products in new vertical markets. If we are unable to access new markets or develop new distribution channels, our business and growth prospects could suffer. We expect that part of the growth that we seek to achieve through our DM strategy will be derived from the sale of DM products and service solutions in industries and markets we do not currently serve. We also expect to grow our business by delivering our DM solutions through additional distribution channels. If we fail to penetrate these industries and markets to the degree we anticipate utilizing our DM strategy, or if we fail to develop additional distribution channels, we may not be able to grow our business, growth may occur more slowly than we anticipate or our revenues and profits may decline. If we are unable to develop successful new products or if we experience defects, failures and delays associated with the introduction of new products, our business could suffer serious harm. Our growth and the success of our DM strategy depend upon our ability to develop and sell new products or suites of products. If we are unable to develop new products, or if we are not successful in introducing new products, we may not be able to grow our business, or growth may occur more slowly than we anticipate. In addition, significant undetected errors or delays in new products or new versions of products may affect market acceptance of our products and could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the past, 15 Table of Contents we have experienced delays while developing and introducing new products and product enhancements, primarily due to difficulties developing models, acquiring data and adapting to particular operating environments. We have also experienced errors or “bugs” in our software products, despite testing prior to release of the products. Software errors in our products could affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. Errors or defects in our products that are significant, or are perceived to be significant, could result in rejection of our products, damage to our reputation, loss of revenues, diversion of development resources, an increase in product liability claims, and increases in service and support costs and warranty claims. We rely on relatively few customers, as well as our contracts with the three major credit reporting agencies, for a significant portion of our revenues and profits. Certain of our large customers were negatively impacted by the recent financial crisis. If these customers continue to be negatively impacted, or if the terms of these relationships otherwise change, our revenues and operating results could decline. Most of our customers are relatively large enterprises, such as banks, credit card processors, insurance companies, healthcare firms and retailers. As a result, many of our customers and potential customers are significantly larger than we are and may have sufficient bargaining power to demand reduced prices and favorable nonstandard terms. In addition, since mid-2007, global financial markets have suffered substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption. The potential for increased and continuing economic disruption presents considerable risks to our business, including potential bankruptcies or credit deterioration of financial institutions with which we have substantial relationships. Such disruption would result in a continued decline in the volume of transactions that we execute for our customers. We also derive a substantial portion of our revenues and operating income from our contracts with the three major credit reporting agencies, TransUnion, Equifax and Experian, and other parties that distribute our products to certain markets. The loss of or a significant change in a relationship with one of these credit reporting agencies with respect to their distribution of our products or with respect to our myFICO® offerings, the loss of or a significant change in a relationship with a major customer, the loss of or a significant change in a relationship with a significant third-party distributor or the delay of significant revenues from these sources, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We rely on relationships with third parties for marketing, distribution and certain services. If we experience difficulties in these relationships, our future revenues may be adversely affected. Most of our products rely on distributors, and we intend to continue to market and distribute our products through existing and future distributor relationships. Our Scores segment relies on, among others, TransUnion, Equifax and Experian. Failure of our existing and future distributors to generate significant revenues, demands by such distributors to change the terms on which they offer our products or our failure to establish additional distribution or sales and marketing alliances could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, certain of our distributors presently compete with us and may compete with us in the future either by developing competitive products themselves or by distributing competitive offerings. For example, TransUnion, Equifax and Experian have developed a credit scoring product to compete directly with our products and are collectively attempting to sell the product. Competition from distributors or other sales and marketing partners could significantly harm sales of our products and services. If we do not engage in acquisition activity, we may be unable to increase our revenues at comparable market growth rates. Our past revenue growth has been augmented by numerous acquisitions, and we anticipate that acquisitions may be an important part of our future revenue growth. We may be unable to increase our revenues if we do not make acquisitions of similar size and at a comparable rate as in the past. 16 Table of Contents If we engage in acquisitions, significant investments in new businesses, or divestitures of existing businesses, we will incur a variety of risks, any of which may adversely affect our business. We have made in the past, and may make in the future, acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer complementary products, services and technologies. Any acquisitions or investments will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of businesses, which may include: • failure to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined business; • overpayment for the acquired companies or assets; • difficulty assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; • product liability and other exposure associated with acquired businesses or the sale of their products; • disruption of our ongoing business; • dilution of our existing stockholders and earnings per share; • unanticipated liabilities, legal risks and costs; • retention of key personnel; • distraction of management from our ongoing business; and • impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of integration of new management personnel. We have also divested ourselves of businesses in the past and may do so again in the future. Any divestitures will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in the sale of businesses, which may include: • disruption of our ongoing business; • reductions of our revenues or earnings per share; • unanticipated liabilities, legal risks and costs; • the potential loss of key personnel; • distraction of management from our ongoing business; and • impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of migrating a business to new owners. These risks could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations, particularly if they occur in the context of a significant acquisition. Acquisitions of businesses having a significant presence outside the U.S. will increase our exposure to the risks of conducting operations in international markets. Our reengineering initiative may cause our growth prospects and profitability to suffer. As part of our management approach, we implemented an ongoing reengineering initiative designed to grow revenues through strategic resource allocation and improve profitability through cost reductions. Our reengineering initiative may not be successful over the long term as a result of our failure to reduce expenses at the anticipated level, or a lower, or no, positive impact on revenues from strategic resource allocation. If our reengineering initiative is not successful over the long term, our revenues, results of operations and business may suffer. The occurrence of certain negative events may cause fluctuations in our stock price. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations due to a number of factors, including variations in our revenues and operating results. We believe that you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of financial results as an indication of future performance. Because many of our 17 Table of Contents operating expenses are fixed and will not be affected by short-term fluctuations in revenues, short-term fluctuations in revenues may significantly impact operating results. Additional factors that may cause our stock price to fluctuate include the following: • variability in demand from our existing customers; • failure to meet the expectations of market analysts; • changes in recommendations by market analysts; • the lengthy and variable sales cycle of many products, combined with the relatively large size of orders for our products, increases the likelihood of short-term fluctuation in revenues; • consumer dissatisfaction with, or problems caused by, the performance of our products; • the timing of new product announcements and introductions in comparison with our competitors; • the level of our operating expenses; • changes in competitive and other conditions in the consumer credit, banking and insurance industries; • fluctuations in domestic and international economic conditions; • our ability to complete large installations on schedule and within budget; • acquisition-related expenses and charges; and • timing of orders for and deliveries of software systems. In addition, the financial markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the stock prices of many technology companies and financial services companies, and these fluctuations sometimes have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market fluctuations, as well as industry-specific and general economic conditions may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Due to recent uncertainty in economic conditions and weakness in financial credit markets, the fair value of our businesses has declined. If difficult market and economic conditions continue over a sustained period, we may experience a further decline in the fair value of one or more of our businesses. Such further declines in fair value may require us to record an impairment charge related to goodwill, which could adversely affect our results of operations, stock price and business. Our products have long and variable sales cycles. If we do not accurately predict these cycles, we may not forecast our financial results accurately, and our stock price could be adversely affected. We experience difficulty in forecasting our revenues accurately because the length of our sales cycles makes it difficult for us to predict the quarter in which sales will occur. In addition, our selling approach is complex as we look to sell multiple products and services across our customers’ organizations. This makes forecasting of revenues in any given period more difficult. As a result of our sales approach and lengthening sales cycles, revenues and operating results may vary significantly from period to period. For example, the sales cycle for licensing our products typically ranges from 60 days to 18 months. Customers are often cautious in making decisions to acquire our products because purchasing our products typically involves a significant commitment of capital and may involve shifts by the customer to a new software and/or hardware platform or changes in the customer’s operational procedures. This may cause customers, particularly those experiencing financial stress, to make purchasing decisions more cautiously. Delays in completing sales can arise while customers complete their internal procedures to approve large capital expenditures and test and accept our applications. Consequently, we face difficulty predicting the quarter in which sales to expected customers will occur and experience fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. If we are unable to accurately forecast our revenues, our stock price could be adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents We typically have revenue-generating transactions concentrated in the final weeks of a quarter, which may prevent accurate forecasting of our financial results and cause our stock price to decline. Large portions of our software license agreements are consummated in the weeks immediately preceding quarter end. Before these agreements are consummated, we create and rely on forecasted revenues for planning, modeling and earnings guidance. Forecasts, however, are only estimates and actual results may vary for a particular quarter or longer periods of time. Consequently, significant discrepancies between actual and forecasted results could limit our ability to plan, budget or provide accurate guidance, which could adversely affect our stock price. Any publicly-stated revenue or earnings projections are subject to this risk. The failure to recruit and retain additional qualified personnel could hinder our ability to successfully manage our business. Our DM strategy and our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain experienced sales, consulting, research and development, marketing, technical support and management personnel. The complexity of our products requires highly trained customer service and technical support personnel to assist customers with product installation and deployment. The labor market for these individuals is very competitive due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding and may become more competitive with general market and economic improvement. We cannot be certain that our compensation strategies will be perceived as competitive by current or prospective employees. This could impair our ability to recruit and retain personnel. We have experienced difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel, especially technical, sales and consulting personnel, and we may need additional staff to support new customers and/or increased customer needs. We may also recruit skilled technical professionals from other countries to work in the United States. Limitations imposed by immigration laws in the United States and abroad and the availability of visas in the countries where we do business could hinder our ability to attract necessary qualified personnel and harm our business and future operating results. There is a risk that even if we invest significant resources in attempting to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, we will not succeed in our efforts, and our business could be harmed. The failure of the value of our stock to appreciate may adversely affect our ability to use equity and equity based incentive plans to attract and retain personnel, and may require us to use alternative and more expensive forms of compensation for this purpose. The failure to obtain certain forms of model construction data from our customers or others could harm our business. We must develop or obtain a reliable source of sufficient amounts of current and statistically relevant data to analyze transactions and update our products. In most cases, these data must be periodically updated and refreshed to enable our products to continue to work effectively in a changing environment. We do not own or control much of the data that we require, most of which is collected privately and maintained in proprietary databases. Customers and key business alliances provide us with the data we require to analyze transactions, report results and build new models. Our DM strategy depends in part upon our ability to access new forms of data to develop custom and proprietary analytic tools. If we fail to maintain sufficient data sourcing relationships with our customers and business alliances, or if they decline to provide such data due to legal privacy concerns, competition concerns, prohibitions or a lack of permission from their customers, we could lose access to required data and our products, and the development of new products might become less effective. Third parties have asserted copyright interests in these data, and these assertions, if successful, could prevent us from using these data. Any interruption of our supply of data could seriously harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We will continue to rely upon proprietary technology rights, and if we are unable to protect them, our business could be harmed. Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. To date, we have relied primarily on a combination of copyright, patent, trade secret, and trademark laws, and nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions on copying and distribution to protect our proprietary technology. 19 Table of Contents This protection of our proprietary technology is limited, and our proprietary technology could be used by others without our consent. In addition, patents may not be issued with respect to our pending or future patent applications, and our patents may not be upheld as valid or may not prevent the development of competitive products. Any disclosure, loss, invalidity of, or failure to protect our intellectual property could negatively impact our competitive position, and ultimately, our business. There can be no assurance that our protection of our intellectual property rights in the United States or abroad will be adequate or that others, including our competitors, will not use our proprietary technology without our consent. Furthermore, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Some of our technologies were developed under research projects conducted under agreements with various U.S. government agencies or subcontractors. Although we have commercial rights to these technologies, the U.S. government typically retains ownership of intellectual property rights and licenses in the technologies developed by us under these contracts, and in some cases can terminate our rights in these technologies if we fail to commercialize them on a timely basis. Under these contracts with the U.S. government, the results of research may be made public by the government, limiting our competitive advantage with respect to future products based on our research. If we are subject to infringement claims, it could harm our business. We expect that products in the industry segments in which we compete, including software products, will increasingly be subject to claims of patent and other intellectual property infringement as the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grow. We may need to defend claims that our products infringe intellectual property rights, and as a result we may: • incur significant defense costs or substantial damages; • be required to cease the use or sale of infringing products; • expend significant resources to develop or license a substitute non-infringing technology; • discontinue the use of some technology; or • be required to obtain a license under the intellectual property rights of the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available or might require substantial royalties or license fees that would reduce our margins. Breaches of security, or the perception that e-commerce is not secure, could harm our business. Our business requires the appropriate and secure utilization of consumer and other sensitive information. Internet-based electronic commerce requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, and several of our products are accessed through the Internet, including our consumer services accessible through the www.myfico.com website. Security breaches in connection with the delivery of our products and services, including products and services utilizing the Internet, or well-publicized security breaches, and the trend toward broad consumer and general public notification of such incidents, could significantly harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, discovery of new vulnerabilities, attempts to exploit vulnerabilities in our systems, data thefts, physical system or network break-ins or inappropriate access, or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access our net-sourced products, consumer services and proprietary database information. Protection from system interruptions is important to our business. If we experience a sustained interruption of our telecommunication systems, it could harm our business. Systems or network interruptions could delay and disrupt our ability to develop, deliver or maintain our products and services, causing harm to our business and reputation and resulting in loss of customers or revenue. These interruptions can include fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, equipment failures and other events beyond our control. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Our ability to increase our revenues will depend to some extent upon introducing new products and services. If the marketplace does not accept these new products and services, our revenues may decline. We have a significant share of the available market in portions of our Scores segment and for certain services in our Applications segment, specifically, the markets for account management services at credit card processors and credit card fraud detection software. To increase our revenues, we must enhance and improve existing products and continue to introduce new products and new versions of existing products that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements and achieve market acceptance. We believe much of the future growth of our business and the success of our DM strategy will rest on our ability to continue to expand into newer markets for our products and services. Such areas are relatively new to our product development and sales and marketing personnel. Products that we plan to market in the future are in various stages of development. We cannot assure you that the marketplace will accept these products. If our current or potential customers are not willing to switch to or adopt our new products and services, either as a result of the quality of these products and services or due to other factors, such as economic conditions, our revenues will decrease. If we fail to keep up with rapidly changing technologies, our products could become less competitive or obsolete. In our markets, technology changes rapidly, and there are continuous improvements in computer hardware, network operating systems, programming tools, programming languages, operating systems, database technology and the use of the Internet. If we fail to enhance our current products and develop new products in response to changes in technology or industry standards, or if we fail to bring product enhancements or new product developments to market quickly enough, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to: • innovate by internally developing new and competitive technologies; • use leading third-party technologies effectively; • continue to develop our technical expertise; • anticipate and effectively respond to changing customer needs; • initiate new product introductions in a way that minimizes the impact of customers delaying purchases of existing products in anticipation of new product releases; and • influence and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. If our competitors introduce new products and pricing strategies, it could decrease our product sales and market share, or could pressure us to reduce our product prices in a manner that reduces our margins. We may not be able to compete successfully against our competitors, and this inability could impair our capacity to sell our products. The market for business analytics is new, rapidly evolving and highly competitive, and we expect competition in this market to persist and intensify. Our regional and global competitors vary in size and in the scope of the products and services they offer, and include: • in-house analytic and systems developers; • scoring model builders; • enterprise resource planning (ERP) and customer relationship management (CRM) packaged solutions providers; • business intelligence solutions providers; • credit report and credit score providers; 21 Table of Contents • business process management solution providers; • process modeling tools providers; • automated application processing services providers; • data vendors; • neural network developers and artificial intelligence system builders; • third-party professional services and consulting organizations; • account/workflow management software providers; and • software tools companies supplying modeling, rules, or analytic development tools. We expect to experience additional competition from other established and emerging companies, as well as from other technologies. For example, certain of our fraud solutions products compete against other methods of preventing credit card fraud, such as credit cards that contain the cardholder’s photograph, smart cards, cardholder verification and authentication solutions and other card authorization techniques. Many of our anticipated competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, professional services and other resources than we do, and industry consolidation is creating even larger competitors in many of our markets. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources than we can to develop, promote and sell their products. Many of these companies have extensive customer relationships, including relationships with many of our current and potential customers. Furthermore, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. For example, TransUnion, Equifax and Experian have formed an alliance that has developed a credit scoring product competitive with our products. If we are unable to respond as quickly or effectively to changes in customer requirements as our competition, our ability to expand our business and sell our products will be negatively affected. Our competitors may be able to sell products competitive to ours at lower prices individually or as part of integrated suites of several related products. This ability may cause our customers to purchase products that directly compete with our products from our competitors. Price reductions by our competitors could negatively impact our margins, and could also harm our ability to obtain new long-term contracts and renewals of existing long-term contracts on favorable terms. Legislation that is enacted by the U.S. Congress, the states, Canadian provinces, and other countries, and government regulations that apply to us or to our customers may expose us to liability, affect our ability to compete in certain markets, limit the profitability of or demand for our products, or render our products obsolete. If these laws and regulations require us to change our current products and services, it could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Legislation and governmental regulation affect how our business is conducted and, in some cases, subject us to the possibility of future lawsuits arising from our products and services. Globally, legislation and governmental regulation also influence our current and prospective customers’ activities, as well as their expectations and needs in relation to our products and services. Both our core businesses and our newer initiatives are affected globally by federal, regional, provincial, state and other jurisdictional regulations, including those in the following significant regulatory areas: • Use of data by creditors and consumer reporting agencies. Examples in the U.S. include the Fair Credit Reporting Act (“FCRA”), as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (“FACTA”); • Laws and regulations that limit the use of credit scoring models such as state “mortgage trigger” laws, state “inquiries” laws, state insurance restrictions on the use of credit based insurance scores, and the Consumer Credit Directive in the European Union; 22 Table of Contents • Fair lending laws, such as the Truth In Lending Act (“TILA”) and Regulation Z, as amended by the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (“Credit CARD Act of 2009”), and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (“ECOA”) and Regulation B; • Privacy and security laws and regulations that limit the use and disclosure of personally identifiable information or require security procedures, including but not limited to the provisions of the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999, also known as the Gramm Leach Bliley Act (“GLBA”); the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH”); the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (“USA Patriot Act”); identity theft, file freezing, security breach notification and similar state privacy laws; • Extension of credit to consumers through the Electronic Fund Transfers Act and Regulation E, as well as nongovernmental VISA and MasterCard electronic payment standards; • Regulations applicable to secondary market participants such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that could have an impact on our products; • Insurance laws and regulations applicable to our insurance clients and their use of our insurance products and services; • The application or extension of consumer protection laws, including, laws governing the use of the Internet and telemarketing, advertising, endorsements and testimonials and credit repair; • Laws and regulations applicable to operations in other countries, for example, the European Union’s Privacy Directive and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“SOX”) requirements to maintain and verify internal process controls, including controls for material event awareness and notification; • The implementation of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 by federal regulators to manage the financial crisis in the United States; • Financial regulatory reform stemming from the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the many regulations mandated by that Act; and • Laws and regulations regarding export controls as they apply to FICO products delivered in non-US countries. In making credit evaluations of consumers, or in performing fraud screening or user authentication, our customers are subject to requirements of multiple jurisdictions, which may impose onerous and contradictory requirements. Privacy legislation such as GLBA or the European Union’s Privacy Directive may also affect the nature and extent of the products or services that we can provide to customers, as well as our ability to collect, monitor and disseminate information subject to privacy protection. In addition to existing regulation, changes in legislative, judicial, regulatory or consumer environments could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. These regulations and amendments to them could affect the demand for or profitability of some of our products, including scoring and consumer products. New regulations pertaining to financial institutions could cause them to pursue new strategies, reducing the demand for our products. In response to market disruptions over the past several years, legislators and financial regulators implemented a number of mechanisms designed to add stability to the financial markets, including the provision of direct and indirect assistance to distressed financial institutions, assistance by the banking authorities in arranging acquisitions of weakened banks and broker-dealers, and implementation of programs by the Federal Reserve to provide liquidity to the commercial paper markets. The overall effects of these and other legislative and regulatory efforts on the financial markets are uncertain, and they may not have the intended stabilization effects. Should these or other legislative or regulatory initiatives fail to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets over the long term, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be 23 Table of Contents materially and adversely affected. Whether or not legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts designed to address recent economic conditions successfully stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets over the long term, we may need to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur additional costs in order to compete in a changed business environment. Our revenues depend, to a great extent, upon conditions in the banking (including consumer credit) and insurance industries. If our clients’ industries continue to experience a downturn, it will likely harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. During fiscal 2011, 78% of our revenues were derived from sales of products and services to the banking and insurance industries. Since mid-2007, global credit and other financial markets have suffered substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption. These forces reached unprecedented levels in the fall of 2008, resulting in the bankruptcy or acquisition of, or government assistance to, several major domestic and international financial institutions. The potential for increased and continuing disruptions present considerable risks to our businesses and operations. These risks include potential bankruptcies or credit deterioration of financial institutions, many of which are our customers. Such increased or continuing disruption would result in a continued decline in the revenue we receive from financial and other institutions. While the rate of account growth in the U.S. bankcard industry has been slowing and many of our large institutional customers have consolidated in recent years, we have generated most of our revenue growth from our bankcard-related scoring and account management businesses by selling and cross-selling our products and services to large banks and other credit issuers. As the banking industry continues to experience contraction in the number of participating institutions, we may have fewer opportunities for revenue growth due to reduced or changing demand for our products and services that support customer acquisition programs of our customers. In addition, industry contraction could affect the base of recurring revenues derived from contracts in which we are paid on a per-transaction basis as formerly separate customers combine their operations under one contract. There can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent future revenue contraction or effectively promote future revenue growth in our businesses. While we are attempting to expand our sales of consumer credit, banking and insurance products and services into international markets, the risks are greater as these markets are also experiencing substantial disruption and we are less well-known in them. Risk Related to External Conditions Material adverse developments in global economic conditions, or the occurrence of certain other world events, could affect demand for our products and services and harm our business. Purchases of technology products and services and decisioning solutions are subject to adverse economic conditions. When an economy is struggling, companies in many industries delay or reduce technology purchases, and we experience softened demand for our decisioning solutions and other products and services. Since mid-2007, global credit and other financial markets have suffered substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption. The widespread economic downturn negatively affected the businesses and purchasing decisions of companies in the industries we serve. The potential for increased and continuing disruptions present considerable risks to our businesses and operations. If global economic conditions experience stress and negative volatility, or if there is an escalation in regional or global conflicts or terrorism, we will likely experience reductions in the number of available customers and in capital expenditures by our remaining customers, longer sales cycles, deferral or delay of purchase commitments for our products and increased price competition, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and liquidity. Whether or not legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts successfully stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, we may need to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur additional costs in order to compete in a changed business environment. Given the volatile nature of the global 24 Table of Contents economic environment and the uncertainties underlying efforts to stabilize it, we may not timely anticipate or manage existing, new or additional risks, as well as contingencies or developments, which may include regulatory developments and trends in new products and services. Our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In operations outside the United States, we are subject to unique risks that may harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. A growing portion of our revenues is derived from international sales. During fiscal 2011, 37% of our revenues were derived from business outside the United States. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to continue to pursue opportunities outside the United States, including opportunities in countries with economic systems that are in early stages of development and that may not mature sufficiently to result in growth for our business. Accordingly, our future operating results could be negatively affected by a variety of factors arising out of international commerce, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • general economic and political conditions in countries where we sell our products and services; • difficulty in staffing and efficiently managing our operations in multiple geographic locations and in various countries; • effects of a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including restrictions on access to personal information; • import and export licensing requirements; • longer payment cycles; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights; • currency fluctuations; • changes in tariffs and other trade barriers; and • difficulties and delays in translating products and related documentation into foreign languages. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully address each of these challenges in the near term. Additionally, some of our business will be conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are not currently material to our cash flows, financial position or results of operations. However, an increase in our foreign revenues could subject us to increased foreign currency transaction risks in the future. In addition to the risk of depending on international sales, we have risks incurred in having research and development personnel located in various international locations. We currently have a substantial portion of our product development staff in international locations, some of which have political and developmental risks. If such risks materialize, our business could be damaged. Our anti-takeover defenses could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of FICO, thereby limiting the demand for our securities by certain types of purchasers or the price investors are willing to pay for our stock. Certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us difficult, even if such events would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These provisions include giving our board the ability to issue preferred stock and determine the rights and designations of the preferred stock at any time without stockholder approval. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more 25 Table of Contents difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These factors and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the fair market value of our common stock. If we experience changes in tax laws or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns, it could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to federal and state income taxes in the United States and in certain foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, by our ability to generate taxable income in foreign jurisdictions in order to utilize foreign tax losses, and by the valuation of our deferred tax assets. In addition, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from such examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from such examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 