Item 1A. Risk Factors (continued) MBIA Corp. has also recorded significant recoveries related to its second-lien RMBS losses, and there can be no assurance as to the timing or amount of collections. As of December 31, 2014, we recorded expected receipts of $523 million (on a present value basis) from excess spread (the difference between interest inflows on assets and interest outflows on liabilities) in our second-lien RMBS transactions, in reimbursement of our past and future expected claims. Of this amount, $496 million is included in “Insurance loss recoverable” and $27 million is included in “Loss and loss adjustment expense reserves” on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets. The amount of excess spread depends on future interest rates, borrower refinancing and defaults and mortgage insurance payments. There can be no assurance that this recovery will be received in its entirety or in the expected timeframe. In addition, the Company is also pursuing claims related to ineligible loans securitized by Credit Suisse and included in a home equity mortgage trust securitization. The Company’s assessment of the ineligibility of individual mortgage loans has been challenged by Credit Suisse in litigation and there is no assurance that the Company’s determinations will prevail, or that the Company will be successful in collecting its estimated recoveries. The litigation may take several years to resolve, during which time we will be required to pay losses on the subject transaction. Continuing elevated loss payments and delay or failure in realizing expected recoveries on insured RMBS transactions as well as certain other factors may materially and adversely affect MBIA Insurance Corporation’s ability to meet liquidity needs and could cause the NYSDFS to put MBIA Insurance Corporation into a rehabilitation or liquidation proceeding if it is not able to pay expected claims. As an insurance company, MBIA Insurance Corporation is particularly sensitive to the risk that it will not have sufficient resources to meet contractual payment obligations when due or to make settlement payments in order to terminate insured exposures to avoid losses. Management’s expected liquidity and capital forecasts for MBIA Insurance Corporation for 2014 reflect adequate resources to pay expected claims. However, there is risk to the liquidity forecast as the Company’s remaining insured exposures are potentially volatile. There are risks to the capital forecast due to those potential liabilities, potential volatility in the collection of excess spread and the remaining put-back recoverable, and potential volatility associated with remaining ABS CDO exposures. Further, the remaining insured portfolio, aside from these exposures, could deteriorate and result in loss reserves and claim payments, including claims on insured exposures that in some cases may require large bullet payments. While management believes MBIA Insurance Corporation will have adequate resources to pay expected claims, if it experiences higher than expected claims payments or is unable collect expected recoveries, it may ultimately have insufficient resources to continue paying claims, which could cause the NYSDFS to put MBIA Insurance Corporation into a rehabilitation or liquidation proceeding. We do not believe that a rehabilitation or liquidation proceeding of MBIA Corp. by NYSDFS would have any significant long-term liquidity impact on MBIA Inc. or result in a liquidation or similar proceeding of MBIA UK. An MBIA Insurance Corporation rehabilitation or liquidation proceeding could accelerate certain of the Company’s other obligations and have other adverse consequences, such as the loss of control of MBIA Insurance Corporation and the imposition of unplanned expenses. Revenues and liquidity would be adversely impacted by a decline in realization of installment premiums. Due to the installment nature of a significant percentage of its premium income, MBIA Corp. has an embedded future revenue stream. The amount of installment premiums actually realized by MBIA Corp. could be reduced in the future due to factors such as not insuring new transactions, early termination of insurance contracts, accelerated prepayments of underlying obligations, commutation of existing financial guarantee insurance policies or non-payment. Such a reduction would result in lower revenues and reduced liquidity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company from time to time receives written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. There are no comments that remain unresolved that the Company received more than 180 days before the end of the year to which this report relates. 26 Table of Contents 