Item 1A. Risk Factors (continued) Private litigation claims could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. As further set forth in “Note 21: Commitments and Contingencies” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of MBIA Inc. and Subsidiaries in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K, the Company is named as a defendant in certain litigations. In the ordinary course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries may be defendants in or parties to pending and threatened legal actions and proceedings brought on behalf of various classes of claimants, including counterparties in various transactions. Although the Company intends to vigorously defend against the aforementioned actions and against other potential actions, an adverse ultimate outcome in these actions could result in a loss and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or financial condition. Ownership Change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code can have adverse tax consequences. In connection with transactions in our shares from time to time, we may in the future experience an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. In general terms, an ownership change may result from transactions increasing the aggregate ownership of certain stockholders in our stock by more than 50 percentage points over a testing period (generally three years). If an ownership change were to occur, our ability to use certain tax attributes, including certain losses, credits, deductions or tax basis, may be limited. Calculating whether a Section 382 ownership change has occurred is subject to uncertainties, including the complexity and ambiguity of Section 382 and limitations on a publicly traded company’s knowledge as to the ownership of, and transactions in, its securities. The Company performs detailed calculations during each quarter to determine if an ownership change has occurred and, based on the Company’s current methodology of calculation, a Section 382 ownership change has not taken place. Interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, could harm our business. We depend heavily on our telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems and on the integrity and timeliness of data we use to run our businesses. These systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events or circumstances wholly or partly beyond our control. Further, we face the risk of operational and technology failures by others, including various financial intermediaries and of vendors and parties to which we outsource the provision of services or business operations. If these parties do not perform as anticipated, we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and other adverse effects on our business. Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our information technology and other systems could be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, unauthorized tampering or other security breaches, resulting in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to clients or transaction counterparties. Interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, whether due to actions by us or others, could delay or disrupt our ability to do business, harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions and other claims, lead to a loss of clients and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business. The Company is dependent on key executives and the loss of any of these executives, or its inability to retain other key personnel, could adversely affect its business. The Company’s success substantially depends upon its ability to attract and retain qualified employees and upon the ability of its senior management and other key employees to implement its business strategy. The Company believes there are only a limited number of available qualified executives in the business lines in which the Company competes. Although the Company is not aware of any planned departures, the Company relies substantially upon the services of Joseph W. Brown, Chief Executive Officer, and other senior executives. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to retain the services of key executives. The loss of the services of any of these individuals or other key members of the Company’s management team could adversely affect the implementation of its business strategy. 31 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company from time to time receives written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. There are no comments that remain unresolved that the Company received more than 180 days before the end of the year to which this report relates. 