Item 1A. Risk Factors area of tax law, in the event that the Internal Revenue Service has a different view with respect to the tax treatment, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Servicer risk could adversely impact performance of Structured Finance transactions Structured finance obligations contain certain risks including servicer risk, which relates to problems with the transaction servicer (the entity which is responsible for collecting the cash flow from the asset pool) that could affect the servicing and performance of the underlying assets. Structural risks primarily involve bankruptcy risks, such as whether the servicer of the assets may be required to delay the remittance of any cash collections held by it or received by it after the time it becomes subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings. Structured finance transactions are usually structured to reduce the risk to the investors from the bankruptcy or insolvency of the servicer. The ability of the servicer to properly service and collect on the underlying assets is a factor in determining future asset performance. Certain of the lawsuits we have filed allege that the servicer has failed to perform its duties as contractually required. While we assess future servicer performance through our servicer due diligence and underwriting guidelines, our formal credit review and approval process and our post-closing servicing review and monitoring, there is no assurance that the servicer will properly affect its duties. The Company is dependent on key executives and the loss of any of these executives, or its inability to retain other key personnel, could adversely affect its business The Company’s success substantially depends upon its ability to attract and retain qualified employees and upon the ability of its senior management and other key employees to implement its business strategy. The Company believes there are only a limited number of available qualified executives in the business lines in which the Company competes. Although the Company is not aware of any planned departures, the Company relies substantially upon the services of Joseph W. Brown, Chief Executive Officer, and other executives. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to retain the services of key executives. The loss of the services of any of these individuals or other key members of the Company’s management team could adversely affect the implementation of its business strategy. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 