Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below, along with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this prospectus, including our financial statements and the related notes, before you decide whether to buy shares of our common stock. The following risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are currently unaware which we believe are not material also could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In any case, the value of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or a portion of your investment. See also, “Safe Harbor Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” 10 Table of Contents Risks Related To Our Business and Industry Because the support revenue that we have traditionally relied upon has been steadily declining, it is important that new sources of revenue continue to be developed. We made a strategic decision approximately six years ago to eliminate our reliance on legacy products and related support services and instead focus on more current technology and services. As a result, our revenue from the support services we offer in connection with our legacy software products has been decreasing over the course of the past few years. This downward trend in our support revenue makes us dependent upon our other sources of revenue. Our business may be materially adversely impacted by U.S. and global market and economic conditions particularly adverse conditions in the insurance industry. For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from products and services we provide to the insurance industry. Given the concentration of our business activities in financial industries, we may be particularly exposed to economic downturns in this industry. U.S. and global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile, and in recently the volatility has reached unprecedented levels. General business and economic conditions that could affect us and our customers include fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, liquidity of the global financial markets, the availability and cost of credit, investor and consumer confidence, the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies, and the strength of the economies in which our customers operate. A poor economic environment could result in significant decreases in demand for our products and services, including the delay or cancellation of current or anticipated projects, or could present difficulties in collecting accounts receivables from our customers due to their deteriorating financial condition. Our existing customers may be acquired by or merged into other institutions that use our competitors or decide to terminate their relationships with us for other reasons. As a result, our sales could decline if an existing customer is merged with or acquired by another company or closed. All of these conditions could adversely affect our operating results and financial position. Our business may be adversely affected by the impacts of proposed health care legislation in the United States. Third-party insurance benefit administrators (“TPA’s”) demand for services from our health benefits exchange operating segment may be significantly reduced due to the diminished role of TPA’s envisioned as a result of pending health care legislation expected to be implemented in the United States during 2010. We may not be able to secure additional financing to support capital requirements when needed. We may need to raise additional funds in the future in order to fund more aggressive brand promotion or more rapid market penetration, to develop new or enhanced services, to respond to competitive pressures, to make acquisitions or for other purposes. Any required additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all, particularly in light of current conditions in the credit markets. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our strategic business objectives or compete effectively, and the future growth of our business could be adversely impacted. If additional funds are raised by our issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership and economic interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of our common stock. If additional funds are raised by our issuing debt, we may be subject to significant market risks related to interest rates, and operating risks regarding limitations on our activities. Our recent acquisitions of E-Z Data, Peak, Facts, ConfirmNet, Acclamation, and Telstra, as well as any future acquisitions that we may undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely impact our operating results. The acquisitions of E-Z Data, Peak, Facts, ConfirmNet, Acclamation, and Telstra, and other potential future acquisitions, subject the Company to a variety of risks, including risks associated with an inability to efficiently integrate acquired operations, prohibitively higher incremental cost of operations, outdated or incompatible technologies, labor difficulties, or an inability to realize anticipated synergies, whether within anticipated timeframes or at all; one or more of which risks, if realized, could have an adverse impact on our operations. Among the issues related to integration such acquisitions are: • potential incompatibility of business cultures; • potential delays in integrating diverse technology platforms; 11 Table of Contents • potential difficulties in coordinating geographically separated organizations; • potential difficulties in re-training sales forces to market all of our products across all of our intended markets; • potential difficulties implementing common internal business systems and processes; • potential conflicts in third-party relationships; and • potential loss of customers and key employees and the diversion of the attention of management from other ongoing business concerns. We may not be able to develop new products or services necessary to effectively respond to rapid technological changes. Disruptions in our business-critical systems and operations could interfere with our ability to deliver products and services to our customers. To be successful, we must adapt to rapidly changing technological and market needs, by continually enhancing and introducing new products and services to address our customers’ changing demands. The marketplace in which we operate is characterized by: • rapidly changing technology; • evolving industry standards; • frequent new product and service introductions; • shifting distribution channels; and • changing customer demands. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to this rapidly evolving marketplace. We could incur substantial costs if we need to modify our services or infrastructure in order to adapt to changes affecting our market, and we may be unable to effectively adapt to these changes. The markets for our products are highly competitive and are likely to become more competitive, and our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technology and changes in customer requirements. We operate in highly competitive markets. In particular, the online insurance distribution market, like the broader electronic commerce market, is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. Our insurance software business also experiences competition from certain large hardware suppliers that sell systems and system components to independent agencies and from small independent developers and suppliers of software, who sometimes work in concert with hardware vendors to supply systems to independent agencies. Pricing strategies and new product introductions and other pressures from existing or emerging competitors could result in a loss of customers or a rate of increase or decrease in prices for our services different than past experience. Our internet business may also face indirect competition from insurance carriers that have subsidiaries which perform in-house agency and brokerage functions. 12 Table of Contents Some of our current competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do. In addition, we believe we will face increasing competition as the online financial services industry develops and evolves. Our current and future competitors may be able to: • undertake more extensive marketing campaigns for their brands and services; • devote more resources to website and systems development; • adopt more aggressive pricing policies; and • make more attractive offers to potential employees, online companies and third-party service providers. We regard our intellectual property in general and our software in particular, as critical to our success. We rely on copyright laws and nondisclosure, license, and confidentiality arrangements to protect our proprietary rights as well as the intellectual property rights of third parties whose content we license. However, it is not possible to prevent all unauthorized uses of these rights. We cannot provide assurances that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights, and the rights of those from whom we license intellectual property, are adequate to deter misappropriation or that we will be able to detect unauthorized uses and take timely and effective steps to remedy this unauthorized conduct. In particular, a significant portion of our revenues are derived internationally including jurisdiction where protecting intellectual property rights may prove even more challenging. To prevent or respond to unauthorized uses of our intellectual property, we might be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation and we may not ultimately prevail. In addition, our offerings could be less differentiated from those of our competitors, which could adversely affect the fees we are able to charge. If we infringe on the proprietary rights of others, our business operations may be disrupted, and any related litigation could be time consuming and costly. Third parties may claim that we have violated their intellectual property rights. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could subject us to costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. To the extent that we violate a patent or other intellectual property right of a third party, we may be prevented from operating our business as planned, and we may be required to pay damages, to obtain a license, if available, to use the right or to use a non-infringing method, if possible, to accomplish our objectives. The cost of such activity could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on the continued services of our senior management and our ability to attract and retain other key personnel. Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued services and continuing contributions of our senior management and other key personnel particularly Robin Raina, our president and chief executive officer. Since becoming Chief Executive Officer of the Company in 1999, his strategic direction for the Company and implementation of such direction has proven instrumental in our profitable turnaround and growth. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. If we are not able to attract and retain key skilled personnel, our business will be harmed. Competition for personnel in our industry is intense. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks that could affect our revenues, operating results, and growth. We market our products and services internationally and plan to continue to expand our internet services to locations outside of the United States. We currently conduct operations in Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore, and have product development activities and call center services in India. Our international operations are subject to other inherent risks which could have a material adverse effect on our business, including: • the impact of recessions in foreign economies on the level of consumers’ insurance shopping and purchasing behavior; • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • seasonal reductions in business activity; • burdensome regulatory requirements; • trade and financing barriers, and differing business practices; • significant fluctuations in exchange rates; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • political and economic instability. Furthermore, our entry into additional international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources, which could divert management’s attention from existing business operations. 13 Table of Contents Our financial position and operating results may be adversely affected by the changing U.S. Dollar rates and fluctuations in other currency exchange rates. We will be exposed to currency exchange risk with respect to the U.S. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in the countries because a significant portion of our operating expenses are incurred in foreign countries. This exposure may increase if we expand our operations in overseas. We currently have a series of forward hedges in place to hedge against adverse fluctuations in the currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and Indian rupee. We will monitor changes in our exposure to exchange rate risk that result from changes in our business situation. Risks Relating to Regulation and Litigation Federal Trade Commission laws and regulations that govern the insurance industry could expose us or the agents, brokers and carriers with whom we participate in our online marketplace to legal penalties. We perform functions for licensed insurance agents, brokers and carriers and need to comply with complex regulations that vary from state to state and nation to nation. These regulations can be difficult to comply with, and can be ambiguous and open to interpretation. If we fail to properly interpret or comply with these regulations, we, the insurance agents, brokers or carriers doing business with us, our officers, or agents with whom we contract could be subject to various sanctions, including censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, loss of license or other penalties. This risk, as well as other laws and regulations affecting our business and changes in the regulatory climate or the enforcement or interpretation of existing law, could expose us to additional costs, including indemnification of participating insurance agents, brokers or carriers, and could require changes to our business or otherwise harm our business. Furthermore, because the application of online commerce to the consumer insurance market is relatively new, the impact of current or future regulations on our business is difficult to anticipate. To the extent that there are changes in regulations regarding the manner in which insurance is sold, our business could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Conduct of Business on the Internet Any disruption of our internet connections could affect the success of our internet-based products. Any system failure, including network, software or hardware failure, that causes an interruption in our network or a decrease in the responsiveness of our website could result in reduced user traffic and reduced revenue. Continued growth in internet usage could cause a decrease in the quality of internet connection service. Websites have experienced service interruptions as a result of outages and other delays occurring throughout the internet network infrastructure. In addition, there have been several incidents in which individuals have intentionally caused service disruptions of major e-commerce websites. If these outages, delays or service disruptions frequently occur in the future, usage of our website could grow more slowly than anticipated or decline and we may lose revenues and customers. If the internet data center operations that host any of our websites were to experience a system failure, the performance of our website would be harmed. These systems are also vulnerable to damage from fire, floods, and earthquakes, acts of terrorism, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. The controls implemented by our third-party service providers may not prevent or timely detect such system failures. Our property and business interruption insurance coverage may not be adequate to fully compensate us for losses that may occur. In addition, our users depend on internet service providers, online service providers and other website operators for access to our website. Each of these providers has experienced significant outages in the past, and could experience outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems. 14 Table of Contents Concerns regarding security of transactions or the transmission of confidential information over the Internet or security problems we experience may prevent us from expanding our business or subject us to legal exposure. If we do not maintain sufficient security features in our online product and service offerings, our products and services may not gain market acceptance, and we could also be exposed to legal liability. Despite the measures that we have or may take, our infrastructure will be potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses or similar problems. If a person circumvents our security measures, that person could misappropriate proprietary information or disrupt or damage our operations. Security breaches that result in access to confidential information could damage our reputation and subject us to a risk of loss or liability. We may be required to make significant expenditures to protect against or remediate security breaches. Additionally, if we are unable to adequately address our customers’ concerns about security, we may have difficulty selling our products and services. Uncertainty in the marketplace regarding the use of internet users’ personal information, or legislation limiting such use, could reduce demand for our services and result in increased expenses. Concern among consumers and legislators regarding the use of personal information gathered from internet users could create uncertainty in the marketplace. This could reduce demand for our services, increase the cost of doing business as a result of litigation costs or increased service delivery costs, or otherwise harm our business. Legislation has been proposed that would limit the uses of personal identification information of internet users gathered online or require online services to establish privacy policies. Many state insurance codes limit the collection and use of personal information by insurance agencies, brokers and carriers or insurance service organizations. Moreover, the Federal Trade Commission has settled a proceeding against one online service that agreed in the settlement to limit the manner in which personal information could be collected from users and provided to third parties. Future government regulation of the internet could place financial burdens on our businesses. Because of the internet’s popularity and increasing use, new laws and regulations directed specifically at e-commerce may be adopted. These laws and regulations may cover issues such as the collection and use of data from website visitors and related privacy issues; pricing; taxation; telecommunications over the internet; content; copyrights; distribution; and domain name piracy. The enactment of any additional laws or regulations, including international laws and regulations, could impede the growth of revenue from our Internet operations and place additional financial burdens on our business. Risks Related To Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be extremely volatile. In some future periods, our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market investors, which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent months. We believe that, in the future, the market price of our common stock could fluctuate widely due to variations in our performance and operating results or because of any of the following factors: • announcements of new services, products, technological innovations, acquisitions or strategic relationships by us or our competitors; • trends or conditions in the insurance, software, business process outsourcing and internet markets; • changes in market valuations of our competitors; and • general political, economic and market conditions. 15 Table of Contents In addition, the market prices of securities of technology companies, including our own, have been volatile and have experienced fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to a specific company’s operating performance. As a result, investors may not be able to sell shares of our common stock at or above the price at which an investor paid. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. If any securities litigation is initiated against us, we could incur substantial costs and our management’s attention could be diverted from our business. Quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate, which could cause our stock price to be volatile. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors that could affect our revenues or our expenses in any particular period. Results of operations during any particular period are not necessarily an indication of our results for any other period. Factors that may adversely affect our periodic results may include the loss of a significant insurance agent, carrier or broker relationship or the merger of any of our participating insurance carriers with one another. Our operating expenses are based in part on our expectations of our future revenues and are partially fixed in the short term. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. Provisions in our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even in situations that may be viewed as desirable by our shareholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and provisions of Delaware law may delay, prevent or otherwise make it more difficult to acquire us by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest, open market purchases, removal of incumbent directors and otherwise. These provisions, which are summarized below, are expected to discourage types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage persons seeking to acquire control of us to first negotiate with us. We are subject to the “business combination” provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, those provisions prohibit a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in various “business combination” transactions with any interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless: • The transaction is approved by the board of directors prior to the date the interested stockholder obtained interested stockholder status; • Upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder’s becoming an interested stockholder, the stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of the corporation outstanding at the time the transaction commenced; or • On or subsequent to the date the business combination is approved by the board of directors and authorized at an annual or special meeting of stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the interested stockholder. These provisions could prohibit or delay mergers or other takeover or change of control attempts with respect to us and, accordingly, may discourage attempts to acquire us. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 