Item 1A. Risk Factors (continued) • An MBIA Insurance Corporation proceeding may accelerate certain investment agreements issued by MBIA Inc., including, in some cases, with make-whole payments. While the investment agreements are fully collateralized with high quality collateral, the settlements of these amounts could reduce MBIA Inc.’s liquidity resources, and to the extent MBIA Inc. fails to pay the accelerated amounts under these investment agreements or the collateral securing these investment agreements is deemed insufficient to pay the accelerated amounts due, the holders of the investment agreements would have policy claims against MBIA Insurance Corporation; • CDS counterparties may seek to terminate CDS contracts insured by MBIA Insurance Corporation and make market-based damage claims (irrespective of whether actual credit-related losses are expected under the underlying exposure), which claims could aggregate up to $185 million as of December 31, 2015; • The Company may be unable to carry out its tax planning strategies as a result of an MBIA Insurance Corporation proceeding. This may cause the Company to record allowances against a portion or all of its deferred tax assets. Refer to “Note 11: Income Taxes” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of MBIA Inc. and Subsidiaries in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for information about the Company’s deferred tax assets. In addition, the Company currently files a consolidated tax return. An MBIA Insurance Corporation proceeding could result in challenges to the tax sharing arrangement among the MBIA affiliates that might adversely affect the Company’s ability to manage taxes efficiently; • The rehabilitator or liquidator would replace the Board of Directors of MBIA Insurance Corporation and take control of the operations and assets of MBIA Insurance Corporation (subject to, with respect to MBIA UK, regulatory oversight and related controls provided by the PRA and FCA, which would stay in effect following such occurrence), which would result in MBIA Inc. losing control of MBIA Insurance Corporation and possible changes to MBIA Insurance Corporation’s strategies and management; and • An MBIA Insurance Corporation proceeding may impose unplanned costs on MBIA Inc. In addition, MBIA Insurance Corporation would be subject to significant additional expenses arising from the appointment of a rehabilitator or liquidator, as receiver, and payment of the fees and expenses of the advisors to such rehabilitator or liquidator. Revenues and liquidity would be adversely impacted by a decline in realization of installment premiums. Due to the installment nature of a significant percentage of its premium income, MBIA Corp. has an embedded future revenue stream. The amount of installment premiums actually realized by MBIA Corp. could be reduced in the future due to factors such as early termination of insurance contracts, accelerated prepayments of underlying obligations, commutation of existing financial guarantee insurance policies or non-payment. Such a reduction would result in lower revenues and reduced liquidity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company from time to time receives written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. There are no comments that remain unresolved that the Company received more than 180 days before the end of the year to which this report relates. 