Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully when evaluating the Company and its business. The Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial individually may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Reduction in MBIA Corp.’s Financial Strength Ratings Would Materially and Adversely Affect Future Business MBIA Corp.’s ability to attract new business and to compete with other Triple-A rated financial guarantors is largely dependent on the Triple-A financial strength ratings assigned to it by the major rating agencies and the financial enhancement rating assigned by S&P. MBIA Corp. intends to comply with the requirements imposed by the rating agencies to maintain such ratings; however, no assurance can be given that these requirements will not change or that, even if MBIA Corp. complies with these requirements, one or more of such rating agencies will not lower or withdraw its financial strength ratings of MBIA Corp. or place MBIA Corp. on “negative outlook,” indicating that a downgrade may be considered in the future. MBIA Corp.’s ability to attract new business and to compete with other Triple-A rated financial guarantors, and its results of operations and financial condition, would be materially adversely affected by any reduction, or suggested possibility of reduction, in its ratings. See “Part I, Item 1. Business - Rating Agencies.” Competition May Have an Adverse Effect on MBIA Corp.’s Business The businesses engaged in by MBIA Corp. are highly competitive. MBIA Corp. faces competition from other financial guarantee insurance companies, other providers of third-party credit enhancement, such as multi-line insurance companies, credit derivative and swap providers and banks, and alternative financing structures that do not employ third-party credit enhancement. Increased competition, either in terms of price, alternative structures, or the emergence of new providers of credit enhancement, could have an adverse effect on MBIA Corp.’s business. See “Part I, Item 1. Business - Competition.” Market and Other Factors May Cause Investors and/or Issuers to Decrease Demand for MBIA Corp.’s Products The demand for financial guarantee insurance depends upon many factors, some of which are beyond the control of MBIA Corp. While all the major financial guarantee insurers have Triple-A financial strength ratings from the major rating agencies, investors may from time to time distinguish among financial guarantors on the basis of various factors, including size, insured portfolio concentration and financial performance. These distinctions may result in differentials in trading levels for securities insured by particular financial guarantors which, in turn, may provide a competitive advantage to those financial guarantors with better trading characteristics. In addition, various investors may, due to regulatory or internal guidelines, lack additional capacity to purchase securities insured by certain financial guarantors, which may provide a competitive advantage to guarantors with fewer insured obligations outstanding. Distinctions in trading values or investor capacity constraints that do not favor MBIA Corp. would have an adverse effect on MBIA Corp.’s ability to attract new business at appropriate pricing levels. Changes in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Financial Condition and Future Business Increases in prevailing interest rate levels can adversely affect the value of the Investment Portfolio and, therefore, the Company’s financial condition. In the event that investments must be sold in order to make payments on insured exposures, such investments would likely be sold at discounted prices. Additionally, increasing interest rates could lead to increased credit stress on transactions in MBIA Corp.’s insured portfolio. Prevailing interest rate levels can affect demand for financial guarantee insurance. Lower interest rates are typically accompanied by narrower spreads between insured and uninsured obligations. The purchase of insurance during periods of relatively narrower interest rate spreads will generally provide lower cost savings to the issuer than during periods of relatively wider spreads. These lower cost savings could be accompanied by a corresponding decrease in demand for financial guarantee insurance. Increased interest rates may decrease attractiveness for issuers to enter into capital markets transactions, resulting in a corresponding decreasing demand for financial guarantee insurance. Demand for Financial Guarantee Insurance Would Decline if Investors’ Confidence in Financial Guarantor Financial Strength Declined The perceived financial strength of financial guarantee insurers also affects demand for financial guarantee insurance. Should a major financial guarantee insurer, or the industry generally, have its financial strength rating lowered, or suffer for some other reason deterioration in investors’ confidence, demand for financial guarantee insurance may be reduced significantly. 29 Table of Contents Regulatory Change Could Adversely Affect MBIA Corp.’s Ability to Enter into Future Business The financial guarantee insurance industry has historically been and will continue to be subject to the direct and indirect effects of governmental regulation, including insurance laws, securities laws, tax laws and legal precedents affecting asset-backed and municipal obligations, as well as changes in those laws. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could expose MBIA Corp. to fines, the loss of its insurance licenses, and the inability to engage in certain business activity. In addition, future legislative, regulatory or judicial changes could adversely affect MBIA Corp.’s ability to pursue its business, materially impacting our financial results. See “Business – Insurance Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 for a description of current insurance regulations affecting MBIA Corp. The Company has announced that it was in discussions with the SEC, the NYAG and the NYSID regarding potential settlements of their investigations into agreements entered into by MBIA Corp. in connection with the AHERF matter. In connection with the potential settlements with these regulators, the Company restated its financial statements for prior periods and accrued $75 million for the total amount the Company estimates, based on discussions to date, it will have to pay in connection with such settlements. To date, no settlements have been approved by the regulatory agencies. No assurance can be given that any settlements with the Company’s regulators will be approved or that any settlement, if approved, will not have additional or different terms, which terms could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, prospects or financial condition. See “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 for more information on the regulatory investigation. Revenues Would Be Adversely Impacted Due to Decline in Realization of Installment Premiums Due to the installment nature of a significant percentage of its premium income, MBIA Corp. has an embedded future revenue stream. The amount of installment premiums actually realized by MBIA Corp. could be reduced in the future due to factors such as early termination of insurance contracts or accelerated prepayments of underlying obligations. Such a reduction would result in lower revenues and would have an adverse effect on the Company’s future financial position. Adverse Results from Investment Management Services Activities Can Adversely Affect the Company’s Financial Position The Company’s Investment Management Services businesses have grown as a proportion of its overall business (see “Part I, Item 1. Business- Investment Management Services”). Events that negatively affect the performance of the Investment Management Services businesses could have a negative effect on the overall performance of the Company, separate and distinct from the performance of the Company’s financial guarantee business. The Company’s Investment Management Services businesses manage several asset-liability programs which enable the Company to earn a spread between the income earned on a portfolio of assets and the interest costs associated with the liabilities incurred to fund the purchase of such assets. These asset-liability programs are managed within a number of risk and liquidity parameters, but there can be no assurance that such parameters are adequate to prevent a decline in the value of the assets or a decline in investment income such that the programs will be unable to service outstanding liabilities. Any resulting loss could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial position. Ability to Expand Investment Management Services Activities or Enter into Business Lines May Be Limited by Rating Agencies and/or Others A rating agency has indicated that it will examine the non-core activities carried on by financial guaranty insurance company affiliates (such as the investment management and related services and sponsored MTN programs carried on by the Company’s Investment Management Services businesses) and their impact on the overall credit profile of affiliated financial guarantors. In the event that a negative view of such activities exists, the Company may elect to delay or forego opportunities to grow its non-core business in the future and/or curtail its current investment management services operations. Loss Reserves May Not Be Adequate to Cover Potential Losses The financial guarantees issued by MBIA Corp. insure the financial performance of the obligations guaranteed over an extended period of time, in some cases over 30 years, under policies that MBIA Corp. has, in most circumstances, no right to cancel. As a result of the lack of statistical loss data due to the low level of losses in MBIA Corp.’s financial guarantee business and in the financial guarantee industry in general, particularly in the structured asset-backed area, MBIA Corp. does not use traditional actuarial approaches to determine its loss reserves. Instead, an unallocated loss reserve is established in an amount deemed adequate to cover the expected levels of losses and loss adjustment expense on MBIA Corp.’s overall portfolio. The size of the unallocated loss reserve is determined by a formula, the components of which are reviewed regularly. The establishment of the appropriate level of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving numerous estimates and subjective judgments by management, and therefore, there can be no assurance that actual losses in MBIA Corp.’s insured portfolio will not exceed its loss reserves. Losses from future defaults, 30 Table of Contents depending on their magnitude, could exceed loss reserves and therefore, have an adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of MBIA Corp. See “Part I, Item 1. Business - Losses and Reserves; Remediation.” Unanticipated Catastrophic Events and Operational Risks May Adversely Impact MBIA Corp.’s Insured Portfolio and Future Business The Company’s insurance operations underwrite and assess credit and other risks using internal models which are based on historical performance and default rates, as well as the Company’s reasonable expectation of future performance. The Company manages its insurance and other exposures in an attempt to minimize the severity and impact of unexpected events. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company’s internal models and portfolio management policies adequately assess and address the risk of unforeseen events, unexpectedly catastrophic events or the impact of risks with a severity significantly higher than those previously experienced, or that the assumptions which underlie the Company’s internal models and policies are accurate. There can be no assurance that the Company will not incur material losses if such unforeseen, catastrophic or high severity events occur. In addition, even in the absence of unforeseen, catastrophic or high severity events, there can be no assurance that the Company’s internal models, portfolio management policies and other internal systems and processes (or models, tools and services provided by third-parties) will be properly utilized or implemented in the normal operation of the Company’s business. Any failure of such processes, models and systems and/or employee misconduct or fraud could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business and financial condition. Increased Rating Agency Capital Charges May Adversely Impact Future Business Individual credits in MBIA Corp.’s insured portfolio (including potential new credits) are assessed a rating agency “capital charge” based on a variety of factors including the nature of the credits, their underlying ratings and their expected and actual performance. In the event of an actual or perceived deterioration in creditworthiness, a reduction in the underlying rating or a change in the rating agency capital methodology, the Company may be required to hold more of its capital in reserve against credits in its insured portfolio, regardless of whether losses actually occur, or against potential new business. There can be no assurance that the Company’s capital position will be adequate to meet such increased reserve requirements or that the Company will be able to secure additional capital, especially at a time of actual or perceived deterioration in creditworthiness of new or existing credits. Unless the Company was able to increase its amount of available capital, an increase in capital charges could reduce the amount of capital available to pay claims and support MBIA Corp.’s Triple-A ratings and could have an adverse affect on MBIA Corp.’s ability to write new business. Potential Impact of General Economic and Geopolitical Conditions May Adversely Affect MBIA Corp.’s Business Prospects and Insured Portfolio Changes in general economic conditions can adversely impact the Company’s business. Recessions, increases in corporate, municipal or consumer default rates, changes in interest rates, changes in law or regulation and other general economic and geopolitical conditions could adversely impact the Company’s prospects for future business, as well as the performance of MBIA Corp.’s insured portfolio and the Investment Portfolio. General global unrest could disrupt the economy in this country and around the world and could have a direct material adverse impact on certain industries and on general economic activity. The Company has exposure in certain sectors that could suffer increased delinquencies and defaults as a direct result of these types of events. The Company’s exposure to domestic and international airports and to domestic enhanced equipment trust certificate aircraft securitizations have experienced increased stress as a result of global events since 2001, including a downgrading of the ratings and the bankruptcy of some of the underlying issuers, and could experience further stress in the event of general global unrest in the future. Other exposures that depend on revenues from business and personal travel, such as bonds backed by hotel taxes and car rental fleet securitizations, have experienced or may experience increased levels of delinquencies and default. In addition, certain other sectors in which the Company has insured exposure, such as consumer loan securitizations (e.g., home equity, auto loan and credit card transactions), have experienced increased delinquencies and defaults in the underlying pools of loans and could experience further defaults in the event of future global unrest. To the extent that certain corporate sectors may be vulnerable to credit deterioration and increased defaults in the event of future global unrest, collateralized debt obligations backed by pools of corporate debt issuances in those stressed sectors could also be adversely impacted. The Company’s insurance operations underwrite exposures to the Company’s reasonable expectation of future performance as well as at various stress levels estimating defaults and other conditions at levels higher than are reasonably expected to occur. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will not incur material losses if the economic stress and increased defaults in certain sectors caused by change in economic conditions, default rates, global unrest, terrorism or similar events in the future is or will be more severe than the Company currently foresees and had assumed in underwriting its exposures. 31 Table of Contents An Inability to Access Capital Could Adversely Affect Liquidity and Impact Ability to Write New Business The Company’s access to external sources of financing, as well as the cost of such financing, is dependent on various factors, including the long term debt ratings of the Company and the perceptions of the financial strength of MBIA Corp. The Company’s debt ratings are influenced by numerous factors, either in absolute terms or relative to our peer group such as financial leverage, balance sheet strength, capital structure and earnings trends. If the Company cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. MBIA Corp. has entered into credit facilities with third-party providers in order to supplement its capital position. When evaluating the Company’s overall capital position, the rating agencies evaluate the financial strength of these providers, as well as their perceived willingness to fund these facilities if drawn. In the event that the ratings of these capital providers are reduced or withdrawn, the amount of capital credit the Company receives for these facilities would decline. There can be no assurance that the ratings of such providers will not decline in the future, that replacement providers will be available or, in the absence of a rating decline, that the rating agencies would not decrease the amount of capital credit they assign to the Company for such “soft capital” facilities. The inability to obtain adequate replacement capital on favorable terms or at all could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business and financial condition. Regulatory Regime and Changes to Accounting Rules May Adversely Impact Financial Results Irrespective of Business Operations The Company applies fair value accounting for the portion of MBIA Corp.’s business executed in credit derivative form as required by SFAS 133 and changes in fair value are recognized immediately in earnings. Therefore, any increases or decreases in the fair value of these credit derivatives will have an immediate corresponding impact on reported earnings. As changes in fair value can be caused by factors unrelated to the performance of the Company’s business such as general market conditions and perceptions of credit risk, as well as events affecting particular insured credit default swap exposures, the application of fair value accounting may cause the Company’s earnings to be more volatile than would be suggested by the actual performance of the Company’s business operations. In addition, due to the complexity of fair value accounting and the application of SFAS 133, future amendments or interpretations of SFAS 133 may cause the Company to modify its accounting methodology in a manner which may have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial results. In addition, accounting standard and regulatory changes may require modifications to the Company’s accounting methodology, both prospectively and for prior periods and such changes could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial results. As discussed in “Part I, Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments” below, the SEC and the FASB are considering the accounting methodology to be applied by financial guarantee industry participants for claims liability recognition, premium recognition, amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and financial guarantee enhanced securities held for sale in guarantor investment portfolios. Until any final determination is reached, the Company intends to apply its existing methodology. There can be no certainty, however, that the SEC or the FASB will not require the Company to modify its current methodology, either on a going-forward basis or for prior periods. Any required modification of the Company’s existing methodology, either with respect to these issues or other issues in the future, could have an impact on the Company’s results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company’s Investment Portfolio includes fixed income investments that were insured by MBIA Corp. at the time such obligations were issued (“MBIA Insured Investments”). As of December 31, 2005, MBIA Insured Investments, (excluding Conduit investments) amounted to $4.4 billion, or 14% of the Company’s total Investment Portfolio. MBIA Insured Investments are accounted for as “available-for-sale” in the Investment Portfolio and recorded at fair value, which includes the value of the MBIA Corp. guarantee. Beginning in January 2005, several financial guarantee industry participants, including the Company, have received written comments from the SEC staff regarding the proper accounting treatment for financial guarantee enhanced securities held for sale in the investment portfolio of the financial guarantor who provided the enhancement for the portfolio security, or in the case of MBIA Corp., MBIA Insured Investments. Recent discussions with the SEC staff suggest that the SEC staff’s tentative view of the appropriate accounting for MBIA Insured Investments is to extinguish a portion of the contingent guarantee obligation related to the amount acquired. The Company cannot predict how the SEC staff will resolve this issue and the resulting impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Until the issue is resolved, the Company intends to apply its existing methodology. There can be no certainty, however, that the SEC will not require the Company to modify its methodology, either on a going-forward basis or for prior periods. For more information on the accounting methodology applied to investments in the Company’s Investment Portfolio, see “Note 3: Significant Accounting Policies – Investments” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of MBIA Inc. and Subsidiaries included in Part II, Item 8. As a result of discussions in January and February 2005 between the SEC staff and several financial guarantee industry participants, including MBIA Corp., regarding differences in loss reserve recognition practices among these participants, the Company understood that the FASB staff would consider whether additional guidance with respect to accounting for financial guarantee insurance should be provided. In June 2005, the FASB decided to add to its agenda a project to consider the accounting by 32 Table of Contents insurers for financial guarantee insurance. As part of this project the FASB will consider several aspects of the insurance accounting model for financial guarantee insurers, including claims liability recognition, premium recognition and the related amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. The Company cannot currently assess how the FASB’s and SEC staff’s ultimate resolution of this issue will impact MBIA Corp.’s loss reserving policy or the effect it might have on recognizing premium revenue and policy acquisition costs. When the FASB or the SEC reaches a conclusion on this issue, the Company and its financial guarantor peers may be required to change some aspects of its loss reserving policies and the potential changes could extend to premium and expense recognition. Until the issue is resolved, the Company intends to continue to apply its existing policy with respect to the establishment of both case basis and unallocated loss reserves and the recognition of premium revenue and policy acquisition costs. A further description of the Company’s loss reserving policy is included in “Note 3: Significant Accounting Policies” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of MBIA Inc. and Subsidiaries in Part II, Item 8. 