Item 1A. Risk Factors (Continued) affect the servicing of the underlying assets. Structural risks primarily involve bankruptcy risks, such as whether the servicer of the assets may be required to delay the remittance of any cash collections held by it or received by it after the time it becomes subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings. Structured finance transactions are usually structured to reduce the risk to the investors from the bankruptcy or insolvency of the servicer. The ability of the servicer to properly service and collect on the underlying assets is a factor in determining future asset performance. MBIA Corp. addresses these issues through its servicer due diligence and underwriting guidelines, its formal credit review and approval process and its post-closing servicing review and monitoring, however, no assurance can be given that the servicer will properly effect its duties. A default by one or more of our key reinsurers or by a financial guarantee insurance company in which we hold an investment could adversely impact our capital position, financial strength rating and ability to write new business Our Insurers have used reinsurance to cede exposure for purposes of syndicating risk and increasing its capacity to write new business while complying with its single risk and credit guidelines. Reinsurers and counterparties under other reimbursement agreements may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. Such defaults could have a material adverse effect on our business or profitability or require us to raise additional capital. MBIA Corp. remains liable on a primary basis for all reinsured risk, and although MBIA Corp. believes that its reinsurers remain capable of meeting their obligations, there can be no assurance of such in the future. MBIA Corp. generally retains the right to recapture the business ceded to reinsurers under certain circumstances, including rating downgrades of its reinsurers. In addition to reliance on key financial guarantee reinsurers, MBIA has certain other exposures to financial guarantee insurance companies. Portions of MBIA Corp.’s investment portfolio, as well as the investments held in relation to our asset management businesses, are insured by other monoline financial guarantee insurance companies. Further, we own a small amount of direct investments in debt and other securities of the holding companies of other monoline financial guarantee insurance companies. A significant financial deterioration of one or more of those companies could impact the market value of investments and increase the amount of capital required to maintain our Insurers’ insurance financial strength ratings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company received comment letters from the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) Division of Corporation Finance dated April 10, 2008, June 27, 2008, August 27, 2008, October 14, 2008, January 15, 2009, and February 24, 2009 regarding its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2008, June 30, 2008 and September 30, 2008. These comments are unresolved as of March 2, 2009. However, we have filed with the SEC responses to the first five comment letters and we are in the process of responding to the sixth comment letter. Additionally, we have incorporated into our subsequent periodic filings with the SEC additional disclosures that we believe are responsive to the SEC’s comments. In general, the unresolved staff comments relate to the methodologies and inputs underlying our fair value measurements of credit default swap contracts and management’s judgment and assumptions, including in connection with the recoverability of the deferred tax assets primarily as a result of the cumulative unrealized losses on insured credit derivatives, and management’s judgment and assumptions included in our loss reserving methodology. We believe that the ultimate resolution of these comments will not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements and/or related footnotes. 