Item 1A. Risk Factors (continued) Any impairment in the Company’s future taxable income can materially affect the recoverability of our deferred tax assets The basis for evaluating the recoverability of a deferred tax asset is the existence of future taxable income of appropriate character. To the extent that the Company’s ability to recognize future taxable income from its existing insurance portfolio through scheduled premium earnings and net investment income becomes impaired, the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets may be materially affected by a corresponding increase to its valuation allowance. A different view of the Internal Revenue Service from our current tax treatment of realized losses relating to insured CDS contracts can adversely affect our financial position As part of the Company’s financial guarantee business, we have insured credit derivatives contracts that were entered into by LaCrosse Financial Products, LLC with various financial institutions. We treat these insured derivative contracts as insurance contracts for statutory accounting purposes, which is the basis for computing U.S. federal taxable income. As such, the realized losses in connection with an insured event are considered loss reserve activities for tax purposes. Because the federal income tax treatment of CDS contracts is an unsettled area of tax law, in the event that the Internal Revenue Service has a different view with respect to the tax treatment, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, could harm our business. We depend heavily on our telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems and on the integrity and timeliness of data we use to run our businesses. These systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events or circumstances wholly or partly beyond our control. Further, we face the risk of operational and technology failures by others, including various financial intermediaries and of vendors and parties to which we outsource the provision of services or business operations. If these parties do not perform as anticipated, we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and other adverse effects on our business. Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our information technology and other systems could be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, unauthorized tampering or other security breaches, resulting in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to clients or transaction counterparties. Interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, whether due to actions by us or others, could delay or disrupt our ability to do business, harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions and other claims, lead to a loss of clients and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business. The Company is dependent on key executives and the loss of any of these executives, or its inability to retain other key personnel, could adversely affect its business The Company’s success substantially depends upon its ability to attract and retain qualified employees and upon the ability of its senior management and other key employees to implement its business strategy. The Company believes there are only a limited number of available qualified executives in the business lines in which the Company competes. Although the Company is not aware of any planned departures, the Company relies substantially upon the services of Joseph W. Brown, Chief Executive Officer, and other executives. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to retain the services of key executives. The loss of the services of any of these individuals or other key members of the Company’s management team could adversely affect the implementation of its business strategy. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company from time to time receives written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. There are no comments that remain unresolved that the Company received more than 180 days before the end of the year to which this report relates. 43 Table of Contents 