risk factors described in this and other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K to be filed by the Company in fiscal 2014. 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business GENERAL Fair Isaac Corporation (NYSE: FICO) (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company,” which may also be referred to in this report as “we,” “us,” “our,” and “FICO”) provides products and services that enable businesses to automate, improve and connect decisions to enhance business performance. Our predictive analytics, which includes the industry-standard FICO® Score, and our decision management systems power hundreds of billions of customer decisions each year. We were founded in 1956 on the premise that data, used intelligently, can improve business decisions. Today, we help thousands of companies in over 90 countries use our decision management technology to target and acquire customers more efficiently, increase customer value, reduce fraud and credit losses, lower operating expenses, and enter new markets more profitably. Most leading banks and credit card issuers rely on our solutions, as do insurers, retailers, healthcare organizations and public agencies. We also serve consumers through online services that enable people to purchase and understand their FICO® Scores, the standard measure in the United States of consumer credit risk, empowering them to manage their financial health. More information about us can be found on our principal website, www.fico.com. We make our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as amendments to those reports, available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with the SEC. Information on our website is not part of this report. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES We use analytics to help businesses automate, improve and connect decisions across the enterprise, an approach we commonly refer to as decision management. Most of our solutions address customer engagement, including customer acquisition, customer servicing and management, and customer protection. We also help businesses improve noncustomer decisions such as transaction and claims processing. Our solutions enable users to make decisions that are more precise, consistent and agile, and that systematically advance business goals. This helps our clients to reduce the cost of doing business, increase revenues and profitability, reduce losses from risks and fraud, and increase customer loyalty. Our Segments We categorize our products and services into the following three operating segments: • Applications. This segment includes pre-configured decision management applications designed for a specific type of business problem or process — such as marketing, account origination, customer management, fraud, collections and insurance claims management — as well as associated professional services. • Scores. This segment includes our business-to-business scoring solutions and services, our myFICO® solutions for consumers, and associated professional services. Our scoring solutions give our clients access to analytics that can be easily integrated into their transaction streams and decision-making processes. Our scoring solutions are distributed through major credit reporting agencies, as well as services through which we provide our scores to clients directly. • Tools. This segment is composed of software tools that clients can use to create their own custom decision management applications, our new FICO® Decision Management Platform, the FICO® Analytic Cloud, as well as associated professional services. 3 Table of Contents Comparative segment revenues, operating income and related financial information for fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011 are set forth in Note 17 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Our Solutions Our solutions involve four fundamental disciplines: • Predictive analytics that identify the risks and opportunities associated with individual customers, prospects and transactions, in order to detect patterns such as risk and fraud, and that improve the design of decision logic or “strategies”; • Data management and profiling that bring extensive consumer information to every decision; • Software such as rules management systems that implement business rules, models and decision strategies, often in a real-time environment, as well as software for managing customer engagement; and • Consulting services that help clients make the most of investments in FICO applications, tools and scores in the shortest possible time. All of our solutions are designed to help businesses make decisions that are faster, more precise, more consistent and more agile, while reducing costs and risks incurred in making decisions. With the announcement of the FICO® Analytic Cloud for creating, customizing and deploying powerful analytic services and the new FICO® Decision Management Platform in May 2013, we will now offer clients an increasing portfolio of applications and services in the cloud. Applications We develop industry-tailored decision management applications, categorized as applications, which apply analytics, data management and decision management software to specific business challenges and processes. These include credit offer prescreening, insurance claims management and others. Our applications primarily serve clients in the banking, insurance, healthcare, retail and public sectors. Within our applications segment our fraud solutions accounted for 22%, 25% and 23% of total revenues in each of fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively; our customer management solutions accounted for 11%, 13% and 13% of total revenues, in each of these periods, respectively; and our collections & recovery solutions accounted for 9%, 8% and 8% for each of these periods, respectively. Marketing Applications The chief offerings for marketing are our FICO® Analytic Offer Manager and FICO® Customer Dialogue Manager. These solutions offer a suite of products, capabilities and services designed to integrate the technology and analytic services needed to perform context-sensitive customer acquisition, cross-selling and retention programs and deliver mathematically optimized offers. Our marketing solutions enable companies that offer multiple products and use multiple channels (companies such as large financial institutions, consumer branded goods companies, pharmaceutical companies, retail merchants and hospitality companies) to execute more efficient and profitable customer interactions. Services offered in our marketing solutions include customer data integration services; services that enable real-time marketing through direct consumer interaction channels; campaign management and optimization services; interactive tools that automate the design, execution and collection of customer response data across multiple channels; and customer data collection, management and profiling services. Originations Applications We provide solutions that enable banks, credit unions, finance companies, installment lenders and other companies to automate and improve the processing of requests for credit or service. These solutions increase the 4 Table of Contents speed and efficiency with which requests are handled, reduce losses and increase approval rates through analytics that assess applicant risk, and reduce the need for manual review by loan officers. Our newest origination application is FICO® Origination Manager, an application-to-decision processing solution built on a service-oriented architecture (SOA), modularized approach that launched in fiscal year 2011. Our other solutions include the web-based FICO® LiquidCredit® service, which is primarily focused on credit decisions and is offered largely to mid-tier banking institutions. In addition, we offer FICO® Origination Decision Manager, a rules-based application based on our FICO® Blaze Advisor® business rules management system. We also offer custom and consortium-based credit risk and application fraud models. Customer Management Applications Our customer management products and services enable businesses to automate and improve risk-based decisions on their existing customers. These solutions help businesses apply advanced analytics in account and customer decisions to increase portfolio revenue, decrease risk exposure and losses, while improving operational efficiencies. We provide customer management solutions for banking, where our leading account and customer management product is the FICO® TRIAD® Customer Manager. The solution is an adaptive control system, so named because it enables businesses to rapidly adapt to changing business and internal conditions by designing and testing new strategies in a “champion/challenger” environment. The TRIAD system is the world’s leading credit account management system, and our adaptive control systems are used by more than 250 banks. The current version of the TRIAD system enables users to manage risk and communications at both the account and customer level from a single platform. We market and sell TRIAD end-user software licenses, maintenance, consulting services, and strategy design and evaluation. Additionally, we provide TRIAD services and similar credit account management services through third-party credit card processors worldwide, including the two largest processors in the U.S., First Data Resources, Inc. and Total System Services, Inc. We also offer transaction-based models called FICO® Transaction Scores, which help card issuers identify high-risk behavior more quickly and thus manage their credit card accounts more profitably. Fraud Management Applications Our fraud management products improve our clients’ profitability by predicting the likelihood that a given transaction or customer account is experiencing fraud. Our fraud products analyze transactions in real time and generate recommendations for immediate action, which is critical to stopping third-party fraud, as well as first-party fraud and deliberate misuse of account privileges. Our solutions are designed to detect and prevent a wide variety of fraud and risk types across multiple industries, including credit and debit payment card fraud; e-payment fraud; deposit account fraud; technical fraud and bad debt; healthcare fraud; Medicaid and Medicare fraud; and property and casualty insurance claims fraud, including workers’ compensation fraud. FICO fraud solutions protect financial institutions, insurance companies and government agencies from losses and damaged customer relationships caused by fraud and related criminal behavior. Our leading fraud detection solution is FICO® Falcon® Fraud Manager, recognized as the leader in global payment card fraud detection. Falcon Fraud Manager’s neural network predictive models and patented profiling technology, both further described below in the “Technology” section, examine transaction, cardholder, account, customer, device and merchant data to detect a wide range of payment card fraud quickly and accurately. Falcon Fraud Manager analyzes payment transactions in real time, assesses the risk of fraud, and takes the user-defined steps to prevent fraud while expediting legitimate transactions. 5 Table of Contents FICO® Fraud Predictor with Merchant Profiles is used in conjunction with Falcon Fraud Manager on payment card monitoring for credit and debit to improve fraud detection rates through the inclusion of merchant profiles. Merchant profiles are built using fraud and transactional data that include characteristics revealing which merchants have a history of higher fraud volumes, and which purchase types and ticket sizes have most often been fraudulent at a particular merchant, among others. In addition to the Falcon products, we offer FICO® Card Alert Service. Card Alert Service is a solution for fighting ATM debit fraud. The Card Alert Service identifies counterfeit payment cards and reports them to issuers. The service analyzes daily transactions from participating networks, and uses this data to identify common points of compromise and suspect cards most likely to incur fraud. FICO® Insurance Fraud Manager uses advanced unsupervised predictive modeling techniques to detect health care claims fraud, abuse and errors as soon as aberrant behavior patterns emerge. Insurance Fraud Manager is used by both public and private health care payers to detect and prevent fraud in both pre- and post-pay fraud investigation environments. FICO® Claims Fraud Solution provides auto and other property and casualty insurers with a powerful integrated set of sophisticated components that are configured to detect and prioritize claims fraud incidents so that most clients experience payback on the solution in a matter of months, not years. FICO® Merchant Monitoring Solution enables merchant acquirers to identify the full spectrum of merchant risk including fraud, card association non-compliance, bankruptcy, and merchant attrition risk to mitigate losses while increasing portfolio volumes. Collections & Recovery Applications In November 2012, FICO acquired CR Software, LLC (“CR Software”), a leading provider of enterprise-class collections and recovery solutions for credit issuers, government organizations, collection agencies, retailers and health care providers and enterprises. CR Software Titanium ORE™ (Open Receivables Environment) is the foundation of FICO® Debt Manager™ 9, introduced in April 2013. FICO® Debt ManagerTM solution and FICO® PlacementsPlus® service automate the full cycle of collections and recovery, including early collections, late collections, asset disposal, agency placement, recovery, litigation, bankruptcy, asset management and residual balance recovery. PlacementsPlus® facilitates control over the distribution and management of accounts to agencies, attorneys, debt buyers and internal recovery departments. Companies using our Debt Manager™ and PlacementsPlus® solutions in the U.S. can access partner services such as collection agencies and attorneys via FICO® Network Services, which provides web-based access to and from thousands of third-party collections and recovery service providers, as well as access to multiple data sources and FICO solutions hosted in Active Service Pages (“ASP”) mode. Mobility Applications FICO® Adeptra® Mobile Services Platform provides cloud-based customer engagement and risk intervention solutions. Delivered as software as a service (“SaaS”), it enables leading financial services institutions and other businesses to take advantage of the explosion in mobile communication to manage risk, fight fraud and dramatically improve the customer experience, all in real time. By using FICO® Adeptra® Mobile Services Platform combined with FICO’s decision management applications, businesses can move from defining, changing and testing decisions to executing and resolving customer interactions while improving customer outcomes. New offerings for FICO include: FICO® Adeptra® Fraud Resolution Manager, which enables clients to engage with customers rapidly and effectively to identify true cases of fraud; FICO® Adeptra® Risk Intervention Manager, which enables clients to interact with customers using preferred channels, treatments and schedules to 6 Table of Contents manage past due payments; and FICO® Adeptra® Origination Interaction Manager, which facilitates effective, scalable and targeted two-way multi-channel engagement across a range of applications such as account activation, marketing and customer service. Analytics We perform custom predictive, descriptive and decision modeling and related analytic projects for clients in multiple industries to address multiple business processes across the customer life cycle. This work leverages our analytic methodologies and expertise to solve risk management and marketing challenges for a single business, using that business’s data and industry best practices to develop a highly customized solution. Most of this work falls under predictive analytics, decision analysis and optimization, which provide greater insight into customer preferences and future customer behavior. Within decision analysis and optimization, we apply data and proprietary algorithms to the design of customer treatment strategies. We offer FICO® Economic Impact Service, which uses time series modeling of the macro economy to allow lenders to forecast future credit risk performance based on their views of the economy. The resulting insights can be used to adjust current credit policy as well as provide input into the calculation of regulatory capital requirements. Entity Resolution In April 2013, FICO acquired Infoglide Software, Inc. (“Infoglide”), which provides identity resolution and social network analysis software. The technology involved enables users to understand the relationships between their organization, customers, events, and third-party actors. Businesses can perform real-time searches across their enterprise data to find, match, and link similar entities and uncover hidden relationship between people, places and things. This technology complements FICO’s capabilities in the area of fraud and marketing analytics. Scores Our FICO® Scores are used in the majority of U.S. credit decisions, by nearly all of the major banks, credit card organizations, mortgage lenders and auto loan originators. These credit scores, developed based on third-party data, provide a consistent and objective measure of an individual’s credit risk. Credit grantors use our FICO® Scores in a variety of ways: to prescreen candidates for marketing programs; evaluate applicants for new credit; and manage existing customer accounts. The FICO® Scores are calculated by running data from the three national credit reporting agencies, TransUnion, Experian and Equifax through one of several proprietary scoring models developed by FICO. The resulting three digit FICO® Score, ranging from 300-850, is available in the United States and Canada. Lenders generally pay the credit reporting agencies scoring fees based on usage, and the credit reporting agencies share these fees with us. FICO® 8 Score, the most recent version of the FICO® Score, is currently available in the U.S. and Canada. The next version of the FICO® Score will be released in Fiscal 2014. While the core FICO® Score is the foundation of our scoring portfolio, we offer many other products and services. The FICO® Expansion Score provides scores on U.S. consumers who have too few credit accounts being reported to the credit reporting agencies to generate a traditional FICO® Score. The score analyzes multiple sources of non-traditional credit data, such as subscription memberships, deposit account activity and utility payment histories. The FICO® Credit Capacity Index™ was the first market-ready predictive analytic to assess a consumer’s ability to pay new debt. It is available in the U.S. and the U.K. The FICO® Economic Impact Index was the first market-ready, economically adjusted measure of consumer risk available for portfolio stress testing as well as individual credit decisions. Through the combination of these scoring solutions, FICO offers a comprehensive market-ready solution to provide lenders a 360 degree view of the customer, encompassing the risk view (FICO® Score and FICO® Expansion Score), opportunity view (FICO® Credit Capacity Index™) and economic view (FICO® Economic Impact Index). 7 Table of Contents Internationally, we offer the FICO® Score for consumer and/or small and medium enterprises lending through credit reporting agencies in 11 countries worldwide. We have installed client-specific versions of the FICO® Score in eight countries. Like FICO® Scores in North America, these scores help lenders in multiple countries leverage the FICO® Score’s predictive analysis to assess the risk of marketing prospects and credit applicants. FICO® Scores are in use or being implemented in 18 different countries across four continents outside the United States. We also offer marketing and bankruptcy scores known as FICO® Revenue Scores and FICO® Bankruptcy Scores through the U.S. credit reporting agencies; an application fraud, revenue and bankruptcy score available in Canada; and commercial credit scores delivered by credit reporting agencies in the U.S. and Singapore. We also have scoring systems for insurance underwriters and marketers. They use the same underlying statistical technology as our FICO® Scores, but are designed to predict applicant or policyholder insurance loss ratio for automobile or homeowners’ coverage. Our insurance scores are available in the U.S. and Canada. We offer an insurance score called the Property PredictRTM score, which analyzes property inspection database data from an insurance services provider, Millennium Information Services, Inc., to calculate the loss risk of a property. We provide credit bureau scoring services and related consulting directly to users in banking through the FICO® PreScore® service for prescreening solicitation candidates and the FICO® Score Delivery Service for account review. Through our myFICO® service, we provide FICO® Score based products, education and information on FICO Scores to consumers. They are sold directly by us or through distribution partners. The myFICO website is the only source for a consumer to purchase their FICO® Scores from all three U.S. credit reporting agencies. Consumers can use the myFICO.com website to purchase their FICO® Scores including credit reports associated with the scores, explanations of the factors affecting their scores, and customized information on how to manage their scores. Customers can use the myFICO website to simulate how taking specific actions would affect their FICO® Score. Consumers can also purchase Score Watch® subscriptions, which deliver alerts via email and text when the user’s FICO Scores or other credit report content change. The myFICO products and subscription offerings are available online at www.myfico.com. The myFICO products and subscription offerings are also available to consumers through numerous other partners. Tools We provide software products that businesses use to build their own tailored decision management applications on premise or within the FICO® Analytic Cloud. In contrast to our packaged applications developed for specific industry applications, our tools support the addition of decision management capabilities to virtually any application or operational system. These tools are sold as licensed software, and can be used by themselves or together to advance a client’s decision management initiatives. We use these tools as common software components for our own decision management applications, described above in the Applications section. They are also key components of our decision management architecture, described in the Technology section. We also partner with third-party providers within given industry markets and with major software companies to embed our tools within existing applications. In May 2013, FICO announced the launch of the FICO® Analytic Cloud and FICO® Decision Management Platform. The FICO® Analytic Cloud gives application developers, business users and FICO partners around the world direct access to FICO’s best-in-class analytics and decision management tools and technology to help spur Big Data innovation. The FICO® Decision Management Platform helps close the gap between Big Data, decisions and execution by enabling organizations to create powerful decision services that analyze customer behavior, target decisions to individuals and determine the best possible action in real time. The FICO Decision 8 Table of Contents Management Platform includes FICO’s award-winning and market-leading software for creating decision management applications. FICO will be rolling out components of the FICO Analytic Cloud, including FICO Decision Management Platform, starting fiscal 2014. The principal products offered as software tools or within the FICO Decision Management Platform include: • Rules Management. The FICO® Blaze Advisor® business rules management system is used to design, develop, execute and maintain rules-based business applications. The Blaze Advisor system enables business users to propose and preview the impact of changes to decisioning logic, to review and approve proposed changes, and commit those changes to production decisioning, all without demanding IT cycles. The Blaze Advisor system is sold as an end-user tool and is also the rules engine within several of our decision management applications. The Blaze Advisor system, available in six languages, is a multi-platform solution that: embeds rules management within existing applications; supports Web Services and SOA, Java 2 Enterprise Edition (J2EE) platforms, Microsoft .NET and COBOL for z/OS mainframes; and is the first rules engine to support Java, .NET and COBOL deployment of the same rules. It also incorporates the exclusive Rete III rules execution technology, which improves the efficiency and speed with which the Blaze Advisor system is able to process and execute complex, high-volume business rules. • Predictive Modeling. FICO® Model Central™ Solution is a comprehensive offering to help banks and other organizations, including insurance, retail and health care companies, maximize the power of their predictive models and meet stricter regulations for model management. It complements FICO® Model Builder, which enables the user to develop and deploy sophisticated predictive models for use in automated decisions as well as complete scoring routines, such as variable generation, segment logic, scoring, calibration and reason codes. This software is based on the methodology and tools FICO uses to build both client-level and industry-level predictive models and scorecards, which we have developed over more than 40 years, and includes additional algorithms for rapidly discovering variable relationships, predictive interactions and optimal segmentation. The predictive models produced can be embedded in custom production applications or one of our Decision Management applications and can also be executed in the FICO® Blaze Advisor system. • Optimization. FICO® Xpress Optimization Suite provides operations research professionals with world-class solvers and high-productivity tools to quickly design and deliver custom, mathematically optimal solutions for a wide range of industry problems. Xpress includes a powerful modeling and programming language, with robust scalability, to quickly model and solve even the largest optimization problems. Xpress tools are licensed to end users, consultants and independent software vendors in several industries, and are a core component within FICO® Decision Optimizer. Decision Optimizer is a software tool that enables complex, large-scale optimizations involving dozens of networked action-effect models, and enables exploration and simulation of many optimized scenarios along an efficient frontier of options. The data-driven strategies produced by these tools can be executed by the FICO® Blaze Advisor® system or one of our Decision Management applications. COMPETITION The market for our advanced solutions is intensely competitive and is constantly changing. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope of the products and services they offer. We encounter competition from a number of sources, including: • in-house analytic and systems developers; • scoring model builders; • enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) and customer relationship management (“CRM”) packaged solutions providers; 9 Table of Contents • business intelligence solutions providers; • business process management and business rules management providers; • providers of credit reports and credit scores; • providers of automated application processing services; • data vendors; • neural network developers and artificial intelligence system builders; • third-party professional services and consulting organizations; • providers of account/workflow management software; • software companies supplying modeling, rules, or analytic development tools; collections and recovery solutions providers; entity resolution and social network analysis solutions providers; and • providers of cloud-based customer engagement and risk intervention solutions. We believe that none of our competitors offers the same mix of products as we do, has the same expertise in predictive analytics and their integration with decision management software, and can offer the enhanced lifecycle management capabilities we offer in areas like banking. However, certain competitors may have larger shares of particular geographic or product markets. Applications The competition for our Applications varies by both application and industry. In the marketing services market, we compete with Acxiom, Epsilon, Equifax, Experian, Harte-Hanks, InfoUSA, KnowledgeBase, Merkle and TargetBase, among others. We also compete with traditional advertising agencies and companies’ own internal information technology and analytics departments. In the origination market, we compete with Experian, Equifax, and CGI, among others. In the customer management market, we compete with Experian, among others. In the fraud management market for banking, we compete primarily with Actimize, a division of NICE Systems, Experian, Detica, a division of BAE, SAS and ACI Worldwide. In the fraud solutions market for health care insurance, we compete with Emdeon, Ingenix, ViPS, MedStat, Detica, a division of BAE, SAS, Verisk Analytics and IBM. Verisk Analytics and SAS also compete in the property and casualty insurance claims fraud market. In the collections and recovery market, we compete with both outside suppliers and in-house scoring and computer systems departments for software and ASP servicing. Major competitors include CGI, Experian, and various boutique firms, along with the three major U.S. credit reporting agencies and Experian-Scorex for scoring and optimization projects. Scores In this segment, we compete with both outside suppliers and in-house analytics and computer systems departments for scoring business. Primary competitors among outside suppliers of scoring models are the three major credit reporting agencies in the U.S. and Canada, which are also our partners in offering our scoring solutions, Experian and Experian-Scorex (U.S. partner), TransUnion and TransUnion International, Equifax, and VantageScore (a joint venture entity established by the major U.S. credit reporting agencies). Additional competitors include CRIF and other credit reporting agencies outside the United States, and other data providers like LexisNexis and ChoicePoint, some of which also represent FICO partners. 10 Table of Contents For our direct-to-consumer services that deliver credit scores, credit reports and consumer credit education services, we compete with our credit reporting agency partners and their affiliated companies, as well as with Trilegiant, InterSections and others. Tools Our primary competitors in this segment include IBM, SAS, Pegasystems and Angoss. Competitive Factors We believe the principal competitive factors affecting our markets include: technical performance; access to unique proprietary databases; availability in ASP format; product attributes like adaptability, scalability, interoperability, functionality and ease-of-use; product price; customer service and support; the effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts; existing market penetration; and our reputation. Although we believe our products and services compete favorably with respect to these factors, we may not be able to maintain our competitive position against current and future competitors. MARKETS AND CUSTOMERS Our products and services serve clients in multiple industries, including primarily banking, insurance, retail, healthcare, and public agencies. End users of our products include 95 of the 100 largest financial institutions in the United States, and more than half of the largest 100 banks in the world. Our clients also include more than 600 insurers, including the top ten U.S. property and casualty insurers; more than 400 retailers and general merchandisers, including more than one-third of the top 100 U.S. retailers; more than 100 government or public agencies; and more than 150 healthcare and pharmaceuticals companies, including nine of the world’s top ten pharmaceuticals companies. Nine of the top ten companies on the 2013 Fortune 500 list use FICO’s solutions. In addition, our consumer services are marketed to an estimated 200 million U.S. consumers whose credit relationships are reported to the three major credit reporting agencies. In the United States, we market our products and services primarily through our own direct sales organization that is organized around vertical markets. Sales groups are based in our headquarters and in field offices strategically located both in and outside the United States. We also market our products through indirect channels, including alliance partners and other resellers. Our scores are marketed and sold through credit reporting agencies. During fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, revenues generated from our agreements with Equifax, TransUnion and Experian collectively accounted for 16%, 18% and 18% of our total revenues, respectively. Outside the United States, we market our products and services primarily through our subsidiary sales organizations. Our subsidiaries license and support our products in their local countries as well as within other foreign countries where we do not operate through a direct sales subsidiary. We also market our products through resellers and independent distributors in international territories not covered by our subsidiaries’ direct sales organizations. Our largest market segments outside the United States are the United Kingdom and Canada. In addition, we have delivered products to users in over 90 countries. Revenues from international customers, including end users and resellers, amounted to 40%, 39% and 37% of our total revenues in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. See Note 17 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a summary of our operating segments and geographic information. 11 Table of Contents TECHNOLOGY We specialize in analytics software and decision management technologies that analyze data and drive decision strategies and customer engagement. We maintain active research in a number of fields for the purposes of deriving greater insight and predictive value from data, making various forms of data more usable and valuable to the model-building process, and automating and applying analytics to the various processes involved in making high-volume decisions in real time. Because of our pioneering work in credit scoring and fraud detection, we are widely recognized as a leader in predictive analytics. In all our work, we believe that our tools and processes are among the very best commercially available, and that we are uniquely able to integrate advanced analytic, software and data technologies into mission-critical business solutions that offer superior returns on investment. In 2013, FICO announced a strategy to make more of our products available as services hosted on the FICO® Analytic Cloud. In addition, we announced the creation of the FICO® Decision Management Platform, which enables clients to use FICO tools along with rapid application development tools from third parties to quickly develop their own decision management applications and services. These initiatives are driven by enhancing our core technical capabilities listed below, and extending them through partnerships with other technology providers. Both of these initiatives build on our work in recent years to create an integrated, service-oriented architecture for decision management. Principal Areas of Expertise Predictive Modeling. Predictive modeling identifies and mathematically represents underlying relationships in historical data in order to explain the data and make predictions or classifications about future events. Our models summarize large quantities of data to amplify its value. Predictive models typically analyze current and historical data on individuals to produce easily understood metrics such as scores. These scores rank-order individuals by likely future performance, e.g., their likelihood of making credit payments on time, or of responding to a particular offer for services. We also include in this category models that detect the likelihood of a transaction being fraudulent. Our predictive models are frequently operationalized in mission-critical transactional systems and drive decisions and actions in near real time. A number of analytic methodologies underlie our products in this area. These include proprietary applications of both linear and nonlinear mathematical programming algorithms, in which one objective is optimized within a set of constraints, and advanced neural systems, which learn complex patterns from large data sets to predict the probability that a new individual will exhibit certain behaviors of business interest. We also apply various related statistical techniques for analysis and pattern detection within large datasets, and have enhanced our abilities to derive insights and predictive variables from various forms of so-called Big Data, including unstructured data, such as text. Decision Analysis and Optimization. Decision analysis refers to the broad quantitative field that deals with modeling, analyzing and optimizing decisions made by individuals, groups and organizations. Whereas predictive models analyze multiple aspects of individual behavior to forecast future behavior, decision analysis analyzes multiple aspects of a given decision to identify the most effective action to take to reach a desired result. We have developed an integrated approach to decision analysis that incorporates the development of a decision model that mathematically maps the entire decision structure; proprietary optimization technology that identifies the most effective strategies, given both the performance objective and constraints; the development of designed testing required for active, continuous learning; and the robust extrapolation of an optimized strategy to a wider set of scenarios than historically encountered. Our optimization capabilities also include a proprietary mathematical modeling and programming language, an easy-to-use development environment, and a state-of-the-art set of optimization algorithms. These capabilities allow us to solve a large variety of optimization problems across all industries. Transaction Profiling. Transaction profiling is a patent-protected technique used to extract meaningful information and reduce the complexity of transaction data used in modeling. Many of our products operate using transactional data, such as credit card purchase transactions, or other types of data that change over time. In its 12 Table of Contents raw form, this data is very difficult to use in predictive models for several reasons. First, an isolated transaction contains very little information about the behavior of the individual who generated the transaction. In addition, transaction patterns change rapidly over time. Finally, this type of data can often be highly complex. To overcome these issues, we have developed a set of proprietary techniques that transform raw transactional data into a mathematical representation that reveals latent information, and which make the data more usable by predictive models. This profiling technology accumulates data across multiple transactions of many types to create and update profiles of transaction patterns. These profiles enable our neural network models to efficiently and effectively make accurate assessments of, for example, fraud risk and credit risk within real-time transaction streams. Customer Data Integration. Decisions made on customers or prospects can benefit from data stored in multiple sources, both inside and outside the enterprise. We have focused on developing data integration processes that are able to assemble and integrate those disparate data sources into a unified view of the customer or household, through the application of persistent keying technology. Through our acquisition of Entiera, Inc. (Entiera) in May 2012, we now have the capability to store unstructured customer data — commonly referred to as Big Data — and enable business clients to use this data to develop more targeted customer communications. Decision Management Software. In order to make a decision strategy operational, the various steps and rules need to be programmed or exported into the business’s software infrastructure, where they can communicate with front-end, customer-facing systems and back-end systems such as billing systems. We have developed software systems, sometimes known as decision engines and business rules management systems, which perform the necessary functions to execute a decision strategy. Our software includes very efficient programs for these functions, facilitating, for example, business user definition of extremely complex decision strategies using graphic user interfaces; simultaneous testing of hundreds of decision strategies in “champion/challenger” (test/control) mode; high-volume processing and analysis of transactions in real time; integration of multiple data sources; and execution of predictive models for improved behavior forecasts and finer segmentation. Decision management software is an integral part of our decision management applications, described earlier. Customer Engagement. Through our acquisition of Adeptra Ltd. (“Adeptra”) in September 2012, we now have advanced technology for customer engagement, which enables the execution of decisions and customer contact through SMS, email, automated voice, mobile applications and other channels. This technology enables FICO to extend decision management beyond the rendering of the decision to the final resolution with a customer, using the most effective method of communication for a given event and customer. Integrating this technology with our decision management systems has proven to decrease costs, improve staff efficiency, increase customer satisfaction and improve the return from marketing, fraud and collections activities. Social Network Analysis. Through our acquisition of Infoglide in April 2013, we now have advanced technology for identity resolution and social network analysis, which enables users to understand the relationships between their organization, customers, events, and third-party actors. Businesses can perform real-time searches across their enterprise data to find, match, and link similar entities and uncover hidden relationship between people, places and things. This technology complements FICO’s capabilities in the area of fraud and marketing analytics. Research and Development Activities Our research and development expenses were $67.0 million, $59.5 million and $62.1 million in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to continually maintain and improve our core technologies, enhance our existing products, and develop new products and technologies that meet an expanding range of markets and customer requirements. In the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, we use our own development tools extensively. We have traditionally relied primarily on the internal development of our products. Based on timing and cost considerations; however, we have acquired, and in the future may consider acquiring, technology or products from third parties. 13 Table of Contents PRODUCT PROTECTION AND TRADEMARKS We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements and procedures to protect our proprietary rights. We retain the title to and protect the suite of models and software used to develop scoring models as a trade secret. We also restrict access to our source code and limit access to and distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary information. We have generally relied upon the laws protecting trade secrets and upon contractual nondisclosure safeguards and restrictions on transferability to protect our software and proprietary interests in our product and service methodology and know-how. Our confidentiality procedures include invention assignment and proprietary information agreements with our employees and independent contractors, and nondisclosure agreements with our distributors, strategic partners and customers. We also claim copyright protection for certain proprietary software and documentation. We have patents on many of our technologies and have patent applications pending on other technologies. The patents we hold may not be upheld as valid and may not prevent the development of competitive products. In addition, patents may never be issued on our pending patent applications or on any future applications that we may submit. We currently hold 139 U.S. and 7 foreign patents with 89 applications pending. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for competitors or users to copy or reproduce aspects of our software or to obtain information that we regard as trade secrets. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Patents and other protections for our intellectual property are important, but we believe our success and growth will depend principally on such factors as the knowledge, ability, experience and creative skills of our personnel, new products, frequent product enhancements and name recognition. We have developed technologies for research projects conducted under agreements with various United States government agencies or their subcontractors. Although we have acquired commercial rights to these technologies, the United States government typically retains ownership of intellectual property rights and licenses in the technologies that we develop under these contracts. In some cases, the United States government can terminate our rights to these technologies if we fail to commercialize them on a timely basis. In addition, under United States government contracts, the government may make the results of our research public, which could limit our competitive advantage with respect to future products based on funded research. We have used, registered and/or applied to register certain trademarks and service marks for our technologies, products and services. We currently have 36 trademarks registered in the U.S. and select foreign countries. PERSONNEL As of September 30, 2013, we employed 2,482 persons worldwide. Of these, 103 full-time employees were located in our San Jose, California office, 307 full-time employees were located in our San Diego, California office, 266 full-time employees were located in our Roseville, Minnesota office, 215 full-time employees were located in our San Rafael, California office, 125 full-time employees were located in our Fairfax, Virginia office, 448 full-time employees were located in our India-based offices and 241 full-time employees were located in our United Kingdom-based offices. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and no work stoppages have been experienced. Information regarding our executive officers is included in Item 10 of this report. 14 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We continue to expand the pursuit of our Decision Management strategy, and we may not be successful, which could cause our growth prospects and results of operations to suffer. We continue to expand the pursuit of our business objective to become a leader in helping businesses automate and improve decisions across their enterprises, an approach that we commonly refer to as Decision Management, or “DM.” Our DM strategy is designed to enable us to increase our business by selling multiple products to clients, as well as to enable the development of custom client solutions that may lead to opportunities to develop new proprietary scores or other new proprietary products. The market may be unreceptive to this general DM business approach, including being unreceptive to purchasing multiple products from us or unreceptive to our customized solutions. If our DM strategy is not successful, we may not be able to grow our business, growth may occur more slowly than we anticipate or our revenues and profits may decline. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a small number of products and services, and if the market does not continue to accept these products and services, our revenues will decline. We expect that revenues derived from our scoring solutions, fraud solutions, customer management solutions and tools will continue to account for a substantial portion of our total revenues for the foreseeable future. Our revenues will decline if the market does not continue to accept these products and services. Factors that might affect the market acceptance of these products and services include the following: • changes in the business analytics industry; • changes in technology; • our inability to obtain or use key data for our products; • saturation or contraction of market demand; • loss of key customers; • industry consolidation; • failure to execute our selling approach; and • inability to successfully sell our products in new vertical markets. If we are unable to access new markets or develop new distribution channels, our business and growth prospects could suffer. We expect that part of the growth that we seek to achieve through our DM strategy will be derived from the sale of DM products and service solutions in industries and markets we do not currently serve. We also expect to grow our business by delivering our DM solutions through additional distribution channels. If we fail to penetrate these industries and markets to the degree we anticipate utilizing our DM strategy, or if we fail to develop additional distribution channels, we may not be able to grow our business, growth may occur more slowly than we anticipate or our revenues and profits may decline. If we are unable to develop successful new products or if we experience defects, failures and delays associated with the introduction of new products, our business could suffer serious harm. Our growth and the success of our DM strategy depend upon our ability to develop and sell new products or suites of products. If we are unable to develop new products, or if we are not successful in introducing new products, we may not be able to grow our business, or growth may occur more slowly than we anticipate. In addition, significant undetected errors or delays in new products or new versions of products may affect market acceptance of our products and could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the past, we have experienced delays while developing and introducing new products and product enhancements, primarily due to difficulties developing models, acquiring data and adapting to particular operating 15 Table of Contents environments. We have also experienced errors or “bugs” in our software products, despite testing prior to release of the products. Software errors in our products could affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. Errors or defects in our products that are significant, or are perceived to be significant, could result in rejection of our products, damage to our reputation, loss of revenues, diversion of development resources, an increase in product liability claims, and increases in service and support costs and warranty claims. We rely on relatively few customers, as well as our contracts with the three major credit reporting agencies, for a significant portion of our revenues and profits. The businesses of our largest customers depend, in large part, on favorable macroeconomic conditions. If these customers are negatively impacted by the continued global economic volatility or the terms of these relationships otherwise change, our revenues and operating results could decline. Most of our customers are relatively large enterprises, such as banks, credit card processors, insurance companies, healthcare firms, retailers and public agencies. As a result, many of our customers and potential customers are significantly larger than we are and may have sufficient bargaining power to demand reduced prices and favorable nonstandard terms. In addition, the global financial markets have continued to suffer substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption. The potential for increased and continuing economic disruption presents considerable risks to our business, including potential bankruptcies or credit deterioration of financial institutions with which we have substantial relationships. Such disruption would result in a continued decline in the volume of transactions that we execute for our customers. We also derive a substantial portion of our revenues and operating income from our contracts with the three major credit reporting agencies, TransUnion, Equifax and Experian, and other parties that distribute our products to certain markets. The loss of or a significant change in a relationship with one of these credit reporting agencies with respect to their distribution of our products or with respect to our myFICO® offerings, the loss of or a significant change in a relationship with a major customer, the loss of or a significant change in a relationship with a significant third-party distributor or the delay of significant revenues from these sources, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We rely on relationships with third parties for marketing, distribution and certain services. If we experience difficulties in these relationships, our future revenues may be adversely affected. Most of our products rely on distributors, and we intend to continue to market and distribute our products through existing and future distributor relationships. Our Scores segment relies on, among others, TransUnion, Equifax and Experian. Failure of our existing and future distributors to generate significant revenues, demands by such distributors to change the terms on which they offer our products or our failure to establish additional distribution or sales and marketing alliances could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, certain of our distributors presently compete with us and may compete with us in the future, either by developing competitive products themselves or by distributing competitive offerings. For example, TransUnion, Equifax and Experian have developed a credit scoring product to compete directly with our products and are collectively attempting to sell the product. Competition from distributors or other sales and marketing partners could significantly harm sales of our products and services. Our acquisition and divestiture activities may disrupt our ongoing business and may involve increased expenses, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals contemplated at the time of a transaction. We have acquired and expect to continue to acquire companies, businesses, products, services and technologies. Acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including: • our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management’s attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities; 16 Table of Contents • an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected, we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected or we may overpay for our investments, or otherwise not realize the expected return, which could adversely affect our business or operating results; • we may be unable to retain the key employees, customers and other business partners of the acquired operation; • we may have difficulties entering new markets where we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions; • our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by claims or liabilities we assume from an acquired company, business, product or technology, including claims from government agencies, terminated employees, current or former customers, former stockholders or other third parties; pre-existing contractual relationships of an acquired company we would not have otherwise entered into; unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of an acquired company’s practices; and intellectual property claims or disputes; • we may fail to identify or assess the magnitude of certain liabilities or other circumstances prior to acquiring a company, business, product or technology, which could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition; • we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues from an acquisition for a number of reasons, including if a larger than predicted number of customers decline to renew their contracts, if we are unable to sell the acquired products to our customer base or if contract models of an acquired company do not allow us to recognize revenues on a timely basis; • we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform standards, architecture, controls, procedures and policies; • our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness; • to the extent we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease; and • we may experience additional or unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions pursuant to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, including arrangements we assume from an acquisition. We have also divested ourselves of businesses in the past and may do so again in the future. Divestitures involve significant risks and uncertainties, including: • disruption of our ongoing business; • reductions of our revenues or earnings per share; • unanticipated liabilities, legal risks and costs; • the potential loss of key personnel; • distraction of management from our ongoing business; and • impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of migrating a business to new owners. Because acquisitions and divestitures are inherently risky, our transactions may not be successful and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Acquisitions of businesses having a significant presence outside the U.S. will increase our exposure to the risks of conducting operations in international markets. 17 Table of Contents Charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results. Under business combination accounting standards, we recognize the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in acquired companies generally at their acquisition date fair values and separately from goodwill. Goodwill is measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date. Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. After we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows: • impairment of goodwill or intangible assets, or a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired; • amortization of intangible assets acquired; • identification of, or changes to, assumed contingent liabilities, both income tax and non-income tax related, after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first; • costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses; • charges to our operating results to maintain certain duplicative pre-merger activities for an extended period of time or to maintain these activities for a period of time that is longer than we had anticipated, charges to eliminate certain duplicative pre-merger activities, and charges to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure; and • charges to our operating results resulting from expenses incurred to effect the acquisition. Substantially all of these costs will be accounted for as expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those costs are incurred. Charges to our operating results in any given period could differ substantially from other periods based on the timing and size of our future acquisitions and the extent of integration activities. A more detailed discussion of our accounting for business combinations and other items is presented in the “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Item 7). Our reengineering initiative may cause our growth prospects and profitability to suffer. As part of our management approach, we implemented an ongoing reengineering initiative designed to grow revenues through strategic resource allocation and improve profitability through cost reductions. Our reengineering initiative may not be successful over the long term as a result of our failure to reduce expenses at the anticipated level, or a lower, or no, positive impact on revenues from strategic resource allocation. If our reengineering initiative is not successful over the long term, our revenues, results of operations and business may suffer. The occurrence of certain negative events may cause fluctuations in our stock price. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations due to a number of factors, including variations in our revenues and operating results. We believe that you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of financial results as an indication of future performance. Because many of our operating expenses are fixed and will not be affected by short-term fluctuations in revenues, short-term fluctuations in revenues may significantly impact operating results. Additional factors that may cause our stock price to fluctuate include the following: • variability in demand from our existing customers; • failure to meet the expectations of market analysts; • changes in recommendations by market analysts; 18 Table of Contents • the lengthy and variable sales cycle of many products, combined with the relatively large size of orders for our products, increases the likelihood of short-term fluctuation in revenues; • consumer dissatisfaction with, or problems caused by, the performance of our products; • the timing of new product announcements and introductions in comparison with our competitors; • the level of our operating expenses; • changes in competitive and other conditions in the consumer credit, banking and insurance industries; • fluctuations in domestic and international economic conditions; • our ability to complete large installations on schedule and within budget; • acquisition-related expenses and charges; and • timing of orders for and deliveries of software systems. In addition, the financial markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the stock prices of many technology companies and financial services companies, and these fluctuations sometimes have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market fluctuations, as well as industry-specific and general economic conditions may negatively affect our business and require us to record an impairment charge related to goodwill, which could adversely affect our results of operations, stock price and business. Our products have long and variable sales cycles. If we do not accurately predict these cycles, we may not forecast our financial results accurately, and our stock price could be adversely affected. We experience difficulty in forecasting our revenues accurately because the length of our sales cycles makes it difficult for us to predict the quarter in which sales will occur. In addition, our selling approach is complex as we look to sell multiple products and services across our customers’ organizations. This makes forecasting of revenues in any given period more difficult. As a result of our sales approach and lengthening sales cycles, revenues and operating results may vary significantly from period to period. For example, the sales cycle for licensing our products typically ranges from 60 days to 18 months. Customers are often cautious in making decisions to acquire our products because purchasing our products typically involves a significant commitment of capital and may involve shifts by the customer to a new software and/or hardware platform or changes in the customer’s operational procedures. This may cause customers, particularly those experiencing financial stress, to make purchasing decisions more cautiously. Delays in completing sales can arise while customers complete their internal procedures to approve large capital expenditures and test and accept our applications. Consequently, we face difficulty predicting the quarter in which sales to expected customers will occur and experience fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. If we are unable to accurately forecast our revenues, our stock price could be adversely affected. We typically have revenue-generating transactions concentrated in the final weeks of a quarter, which may prevent accurate forecasting of our financial results and cause our stock price to decline. Large portions of our software license agreements are consummated in the weeks immediately preceding quarter end. Before these agreements are consummated, we create and rely on forecasted revenues for planning, modeling and earnings guidance. Forecasts, however, are only estimates and actual results may vary for a particular quarter or longer periods of time. Consequently, significant discrepancies between actual and forecasted results could limit our ability to plan, budget or provide accurate guidance, which could adversely affect our stock price. Any publicly-stated revenue or earnings projections are subject to this risk. The failure to recruit and retain additional qualified personnel could hinder our ability to successfully manage our business. Our DM strategy and our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain experienced sales, consulting, research and development, marketing, technical support and management 19 Table of Contents personnel. The complexity of our products requires highly trained customer service and technical support personnel to assist customers with product installation and deployment. The labor market for these individuals is very competitive due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding and may become more competitive with general market and economic improvement. We cannot be certain that our compensation strategies will be perceived as competitive by current or prospective employees. This could impair our ability to recruit and retain personnel. We have experienced difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel, especially technical, sales and consulting personnel, and we may need additional staff to support new customers and/or increased customer needs. We may also recruit skilled technical professionals from other countries to work in the United States. Limitations imposed by immigration laws in the United States and abroad and the availability of visas in the countries where we do business could hinder our ability to attract necessary qualified personnel and harm our business and future operating results. There is a risk that even if we invest significant resources in attempting to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, we will not succeed in our efforts, and our business could be harmed. The failure of the value of our stock to appreciate may adversely affect our ability to use equity and equity-based incentive plans to attract and retain personnel, and may require us to use alternative and more expensive forms of compensation for this purpose. The failure to obtain certain forms of model construction data from our customers or others could harm our business. We must develop or obtain a reliable source of sufficient amounts of current and statistically relevant data to analyze transactions and update our products. In most cases, these data must be periodically updated and refreshed to enable our products to continue to work effectively in a changing environment. We do not own or control much of the data that we require, most of which is collected privately and maintained in proprietary databases. Customers and key business alliances provide us with the data we require to analyze transactions, report results and build new models. Our DM strategy depends in part upon our ability to access new forms of data to develop custom and proprietary analytic tools. If we fail to maintain sufficient data sourcing relationships with our customers and business alliances, or if they decline to provide such data due to legal privacy concerns, competition concerns, prohibitions or a lack of permission from their customers, we could lose access to required data and our products, and the development of new products, might become less effective. Third parties have asserted copyright interests in these data, and these assertions, if successful, could prevent us from using these data. Any interruption of our supply of data could seriously harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We will continue to rely upon proprietary technology rights, and if we are unable to protect them, our business could be harmed. Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. To date, we have relied primarily on a combination of copyright, patent, trade secret, and trademark laws, and nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions on copying and distribution to protect our proprietary technology. This protection of our proprietary technology is limited, and our proprietary technology could be used by others without our consent. In addition, patents may not be issued with respect to our pending or future patent applications, and our patents may not be upheld as valid or may not prevent the development of competitive products. Any disclosure, loss, invalidity of, or failure to protect our intellectual property could negatively impact our competitive position, and ultimately, our business. There can be no assurance that our protection of our intellectual property rights in the United States or abroad will be adequate or that others, including our competitors, will not use our proprietary technology without our consent. Furthermore, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Some of our technologies were developed under research projects conducted under agreements with various U.S. government agencies or subcontractors. Although we have commercial rights to these technologies, the U.S. 20 Table of Contents government typically retains ownership of intellectual property rights and licenses in the technologies developed by us under these contracts, and in some cases can terminate our rights in these technologies if we fail to commercialize them on a timely basis. Under these contracts with the U.S. government, the results of research may be made public by the government, limiting our competitive advantage with respect to future products based on our research. If we are subject to infringement claims, it could harm our business. We expect that products in the industry segments in which we compete, including software products, will increasingly be subject to claims of patent and other intellectual property infringement as the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grow. We may need to defend claims that our products infringe intellectual property rights, and as a result we may: • incur significant defense costs or substantial damages; • be required to cease the use or sale of infringing products; • expend significant resources to develop or license a substitute non-infringing technology; • discontinue the use of some technology; or • be required to obtain a license under the intellectual property rights of the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available or might require substantial royalties or license fees that would reduce our margins. Moreover, in recent years, individuals and groups that are non-practicing entities, commonly referred to as “patent trolls”, have purchased patents and other intellectual property assets for the purpose of making claims of infringement in order to extract settlements. From time to time, we may receive threatening letters or notices or may be the subject of claims that our solutions and underlying technology infringe or violate the intellectual property rights of others. Responding to such claims, regardless of their merit, can be time consuming, costly to defend in litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, damage our reputation and brand, and cause us to incur significant expenses. If our security measures are compromised or unauthorized access to customer or consumer data is otherwise obtained, our products and services may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or cease their use of our products and services, our reputation may be damaged and we could incur significant liabilities. Our business requires the storage, transmission and utilization of sensitive consumer and customer information. Many of our products are provided by us through the Internet. Security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss, the unauthorized disclosure of consumer or customer information, litigation, indemnity obligations and other liability. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to our system or to consumer or customer information, our reputation may be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Malicious third parties may also conduct attacks designed to temporarily deny customers access to our services. Security compromises experienced by our competitors, by our customers or by us may lead to public disclosures, which may lead to widespread negative publicity. Any security compromise in our industry, whether actual or perceived, could harm our reputation, erode customer confidence in the effectiveness of our security measures, negatively impact our ability to attract new customers, cause existing customers to curtail or cease their use of our products and services or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. 21 Table of Contents Protection from system interruptions is important to our business. If we experience a sustained interruption of our telecommunication systems, it could harm our business. Systems or network interruptions could delay and disrupt our ability to develop, deliver or maintain our products and services, causing harm to our business and reputation and resulting in loss of customers or revenue. These interruptions can include fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, equipment failures and other events beyond our control. Risks Related to Our Industry Our ability to increase our revenues will depend to some extent upon introducing new products and services. If the marketplace does not accept these new products and services, our revenues may decline. We have a significant share of the available market in portions of our Scores segment and for certain services in our Applications segment, specifically, the markets for account management services at credit card processors and credit card fraud detection software. To increase our revenues, we must enhance and improve existing products and continue to introduce new products and new versions of existing products that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements and achieve market acceptance. We believe much of the future growth of our business and the success of our DM strategy will rest on our ability to continue to expand into newer markets for our products and services. Such areas are relatively new to our product development and sales and marketing personnel. Products that we plan to market in the future are in various stages of development. We cannot assure you that the marketplace will accept these products. If our current or potential customers are not willing to switch to or adopt our new products and services, either as a result of the quality of these products and services or due to other factors, such as economic conditions, our revenues will decrease. If we fail to keep up with rapidly changing technologies, our products could become less competitive or obsolete. In our markets, technology changes rapidly, and there are continuous improvements in computer hardware, network operating systems, programming tools, programming languages, operating systems, database technology and the use of the Internet. If we fail to enhance our current products and develop new products in response to changes in technology or industry standards, or if we fail to bring product enhancements or new product developments to market quickly enough, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to: • innovate by internally developing new and competitive technologies; • use leading third-party technologies effectively; • continue to develop our technical expertise; • anticipate and effectively respond to changing customer needs; • initiate new product introductions in a way that minimizes the impact of customers delaying purchases of existing products in anticipation of new product releases; and • influence and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. If our competitors introduce new products and pricing strategies, it could decrease our product sales and market share, or could pressure us to reduce our product prices in a manner that reduces our margins. We may not be able to compete successfully against our competitors, and this inability could impair our capacity to sell our products. The market for business analytics is new, rapidly evolving and highly competitive, and we expect competition in this market to persist and intensify. Our regional and global competitors vary in size and in the scope of the products and services they offer, and include: • in-house analytic and systems developers; 22 Table of Contents • scoring model builders; • enterprise resource planning (ERP) and customer relationship management (CRM) packaged solutions providers; • business intelligence solutions providers; • credit report and credit score providers; • business process management solution providers; • process modeling tools providers; • automated application processing services providers; • data vendors; • neural network developers and artificial intelligence system builders; • third-party professional services and consulting organizations; • account/workflow management software providers; and • software tools companies supplying modeling, rules, or analytic development tools. We expect to experience additional competition from other established and emerging companies, as well as from other technologies. For example, certain of our fraud solutions products compete against other methods of preventing credit card fraud, such as credit cards that contain the cardholder’s photograph, smart cards, cardholder verification and authentication solutions and other card authorization techniques. Many of our anticipated competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, professional services and other resources than we do, and industry consolidation is creating even larger competitors in many of our markets. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources than we can to develop, promote and sell their products. Many of these companies have extensive customer relationships, including relationships with many of our current and potential customers. Furthermore, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. For example, TransUnion, Equifax and Experian have formed an alliance that has developed a credit scoring product competitive with our products. If we are unable to respond as quickly or effectively to changes in customer requirements as our competition, our ability to expand our business and sell our products will be negatively affected. Our competitors may be able to sell products competitive to ours at lower prices individually or as part of integrated suites of several related products. This ability may cause our customers to purchase products that directly compete with our products from our competitors. Price reductions by our competitors could negatively impact our margins, and could also harm our ability to obtain new long-term contracts and renewals of existing long-term contracts on favorable terms. Legislation that is enacted by the U.S. Congress, the states, Canadian provinces, and other countries, and government regulations that apply to us or to our customers may expose us to liability, cause us to incur significant expense, affect our ability to compete in certain markets, limit the profitability of or demand for our products, or render our products obsolete. If these laws and regulations require us to change our current products and services, it could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Legislation and governmental regulation affect how our business is conducted and, in some cases, subject us to the possibility of government supervision and future lawsuits arising from our products and services. Globally, legislation and governmental regulation also influence our current and prospective customers’ activities, as well as their expectations and needs in relation to our products and services. Both our core businesses and our newer 23 Table of Contents initiatives are affected globally by federal, regional, provincial, state and other jurisdictional regulations, including those in the following significant regulatory areas: • Use of data by creditors and consumer reporting agencies. Examples in the U.S. include the Fair Credit Reporting Act (“FCRA”), as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (“FACTA”); • Laws and regulations that limit the use of credit scoring models such as state “mortgage trigger” laws, state “inquiries” laws, state insurance restrictions on the use of credit based insurance scores, and the Consumer Credit Directive in the European Union; • Fair lending laws, such as the Truth In Lending Act (“TILA”) and Regulation Z, as amended by the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (“Credit CARD Act of 2009”), and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (“ECOA”) and Regulation B; • Privacy and security laws and regulations that limit the use and disclosure of personally identifiable information or require security procedures, including but not limited to the provisions of the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999, also known as the Gramm Leach Bliley Act (“GLBA”); the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH”); the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (“USA Patriot Act”); identity theft, file freezing, security breach notification and similar state privacy laws; • Extension of credit to consumers through the Electronic Fund Transfers Act and Regulation E, as well as nongovernmental VISA and MasterCard electronic payment standards; • Regulations applicable to secondary market participants such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that could have an impact on our products; • Insurance laws and regulations applicable to our insurance clients and their use of our insurance products and services; • The application or extension of consumer protection laws, including, laws governing the use of the Internet and telemarketing, advertising, endorsements and testimonials and credit repair; • Laws and regulations applicable to operations in other countries, for example, the European Union’s Privacy Directive and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“SOX”) requirements to maintain and verify internal process controls, including controls for material event awareness and notification; • The implementation of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 by federal regulators to manage the financial crisis in the United States; • Financial regulatory reform stemming from the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the many regulations mandated by that Act, including regulations issued by, and the supervisory authority of, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (“CFPB”); and • Laws and regulations regarding export controls as they apply to FICO products delivered in non-U.S. countries. In making credit evaluations of consumers, or in performing fraud screening or user authentication, our customers are subject to requirements of multiple jurisdictions, which may impose onerous and contradictory requirements. Privacy legislation such as GLBA or the European Union’s Privacy Directive may also affect the nature and extent of the products or services that we can provide to customers, as well as our ability to collect, monitor and disseminate information subject to privacy protection. In addition to existing regulation, changes in legislative, judicial, regulatory or consumer environments could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. These regulations and amendments to them could affect the demand for or profitability of some of our products, including scoring and consumer products. New regulations pertaining to financial institutions could cause them to pursue new strategies, reducing the demand for our products. 24 Table of Contents In response to market disruptions over the past several years, legislators and financial regulators implemented a number of mechanisms designed to add stability to the financial markets, including the provision of direct and indirect assistance to distressed financial institutions, assistance by the banking authorities in arranging acquisitions of weakened banks and broker-dealers, and implementation of programs by the Federal Reserve to provide liquidity to the commercial paper markets. The overall effects of these and other legislative and regulatory efforts on the financial markets are uncertain, and they may not have the intended stabilization effects. Should these or other legislative or regulatory initiatives fail to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets over the long term, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Whether or not legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts designed to address recent economic conditions successfully stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets over the long term, we may need to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur additional costs in order to compete in a changed business environment. Our revenues depend, to a great extent, upon conditions in the banking (including consumer credit) and insurance industries. If our clients’ industries continue to experience uncertainty, it will likely harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. During fiscal 2013, 76% of our revenues were derived from sales of products and services to the banking and insurance industries. The continued global economic uncertainty has produced substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption of global credit and other financial markets, resulting in the bankruptcy or acquisition of, or government assistance to, several major domestic and international financial institutions. The potential for increased and continuing disruptions present considerable risks to our businesses and operations. These risks include potential bankruptcies or credit deterioration of financial institutions, many of which are our customers. Such increased or continuing disruption would result in a decline in the revenue we receive from financial and other institutions. While the rate of account growth in the U.S. bankcard industry has been slowing and many of our large institutional customers have consolidated in recent years, we have generated most of our revenue growth from our bankcard-related scoring and account management businesses by selling and cross-selling our products and services to large banks and other credit issuers. As the banking industry continues to experience contraction in the number of participating institutions, we may have fewer opportunities for revenue growth due to reduced or changing demand for our products and services that support customer acquisition programs of our customers. In addition, industry contraction could affect the base of recurring revenues derived from contracts in which we are paid on a per-transaction basis as formerly separate customers combine their operations under one contract. There can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent future revenue contraction or effectively promote future revenue growth in our businesses. While we are attempting to expand our sales of consumer credit, banking and insurance products and services into international markets, the risks are greater as these markets are also experiencing substantial disruption and we are less well-known in them. Risk Related to External Conditions Material adverse developments in global economic conditions, or the occurrence of certain other world events, could affect demand for our products and services and harm our business. Purchases of technology products and services and decisioning solutions are subject to adverse economic conditions. When an economy is struggling, companies in many industries delay or reduce technology purchases, and we experience softened demand for our decisioning solutions and other products and services. The continued global economic uncertainty has produced substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption of global credit and other financial markets. This uncertainty can negatively affect the businesses and purchasing decisions of companies in the industries we serve. The potential for increased and continuing disruptions present considerable risks to our businesses and operations. If global economic conditions experience stress and negative volatility, or 25 Table of Contents if there is an escalation in regional or global conflicts or terrorism, we will likely experience reductions in the number of available customers and in capital expenditures by our remaining customers, longer sales cycles, deferral or delay of purchase commitments for our products and increased price competition, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and liquidity. Whether or not legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts successfully stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, we may need to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur additional costs in order to compete in a changed business environment. Given the volatile nature of the global economic environment and the uncertainties underlying efforts to stabilize it, we may not timely anticipate or manage existing, new or additional risks, as well as contingencies or developments, which may include regulatory developments and trends in new products and services. Our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In operations outside the United States, we are subject to unique risks that may harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. A growing portion of our revenues is derived from international sales. During fiscal 2013, 40% of our revenues were derived from business outside the United States. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to continue to pursue opportunities outside the United States, including opportunities in countries with economic systems that are in early stages of development and that may not mature sufficiently to result in growth for our business. Accordingly, our future operating results could be negatively affected by a variety of factors arising out of international commerce, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • general economic and political conditions in countries where we sell our products and services; • difficulty in staffing and efficiently managing our operations in multiple geographic locations and in various countries; • effects of a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including restrictions on access to personal information; • import and export licensing requirements; • longer payment cycles; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights; • currency fluctuations; • changes in tariffs and other trade barriers; and • difficulties and delays in translating products and related documentation into foreign languages. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully address each of these challenges in the near term. Additionally, some of our business will be conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are not currently material to our cash flows, financial position or results of operations. However, an increase in our foreign revenues could subject us to increased foreign currency transaction risks in the future. In addition to the risk of depending on international sales, we have risks incurred in having research and development personnel located in various international locations. We currently have a substantial portion of our product development staff in international locations, some of which have political and developmental risks. If such risks materialize, our business could be damaged. 26 Table of Contents Our anti-takeover defenses could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of FICO, thereby limiting the demand for our securities by certain types of purchasers or the price investors are willing to pay for our stock. Certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us difficult, even if such events would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These provisions include giving our board the ability to issue preferred stock and determine the rights and designations of the preferred stock at any time without stockholder approval. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These factors and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the fair market value of our common stock. If we experience changes in tax laws or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns, it could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to federal and state income taxes in the United States and in certain foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, by our ability to generate taxable income in foreign jurisdictions in order to utilize foreign tax losses, and by the valuation of our deferred tax assets. In addition, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from such examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from such examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 