Item 1A. RISK FACTORSOne should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below, along with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this prospectus, including our financial statements and the related notes, before you decide whether to buy shares of our common stock. The following risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are currently unaware which we believe are not material also could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In any case, the value of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or a portion of your investment. See also, “Safe Harbor Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.”8Table of ContentsRisks Related To Our Business and IndustryOur business may be materially adversely impacted by U.S. and global market and economic conditions particularly adverse conditions in the insurance industry.For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from products and services we provide to the insurance and financial services industries. Given the concentration of our business activities in these industries, we may be particularly exposed to certain economic downturns unique to this industry groups. U.S. and global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. General business and economic conditions that could affect us and our customers include fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, liquidity of the global financial markets, the availability and cost of credit, investor and consumer confidence, and the strength of the economies in which our customers operate. A poor economic environment could result in significant decreases in demand for our products and services, including the delay or cancellation of current or anticipated projects, or could present difficulties in collecting accounts receivables from our customers due to their deteriorating financial condition. Our existing customers may be acquired by or merged into other entities that use our competitors' products, or they may decide to terminate their relationships with us for other reasons. As a result, our sales could decline if an existing customer is merged with or acquired by another company or closed. We could potentially be required to recognize an impairment of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets.Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts paid by us to acquire businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. The Company’s indefinite-lived assets are associated with the contractual customer relationships existing with the property and casualty insurance carriers in Australia using our property and casualty data exchange and with certain large corporate customers using our client relationship management platform in the United States. At December 31, 2013, we had $337.1 million of goodwill and $30.9 million of indefinite-lived intangible assets carried on the Company's consolidated balance sheet. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. We evaluate goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets at least annually for any potential impairment. If it is determined that goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets have been impaired, we must write down the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. These write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately determine our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial results, which could harm our business and the market value of our common shares. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or (“SOX”), requires us to evaluate and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and have our independent auditors as well issue their own opinion regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and related disclosures. While we continually undertake efforts to maintain an effective system of internal controls and compliance with SOX, we cannot always be certain that we will be successful in maintaining adequate control over our financial reporting and related financial processes. Furthermore, as we grow our business, our internal control structure may become more complex, and could possibly require significantly more resources to ensure our internal controls remain effective. If we or our independent auditors discover a material weakness in our controls over financial reporting, the disclosure of that fact, even if immediately remedied, could significantly reduce the market value of our common stock. In addition, the existence of any material weakness or significant deficiency may require management to devote significant time and incur significant expense to remediate any such weaknesses, and management may not be able to remediate same in a timely manner. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilitiesOur future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or due to changes in tax laws, regulations, and accounting principles concerning the accounting for income taxes in the domestic and foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct operations. We are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, and there are some transactions for which the ultimate tax treatment is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable and appropriate, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made.9Table of ContentsWe may not be able to secure additional financing to support capital requirements when needed.We may need to raise additional funds in the future in order to fund new product development, organic growth initiatives, acquire new businesses, or for other purposes. Any required additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our strategic business objectives or compete effectively, and the future growth of our business could be adversely impacted. If additional funds are raised by our issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership and economic interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of our common stock. If additional funds are raised by our issuing debt, we may be subject to significant market risks related to interest rates, and operating risks regarding limitations on our activities.Our future growth may depend in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry. We expect to continue to grow, in part, by making business acquisitions. We continue to look for strategic businesses to acquire. In the past, we have made accretive acquisitions to broaden our product and service offerings, expand our operations, and enter new geographic markets. We may continue to make selective acquisitions, enter into joint ventures, or otherwise engage in other appropriate business investments or arrangements that the Company believes will strengthen Ebix. However, the continued success of our acquisition program will depend on our ability to find and buy other attractive businesses at a reasonable price, access to the requisite financing resources if needed, and our ability to integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. We cannot assume there will continue to be attractive acquisition opportunities for sale at reasonable prices that we can successfully integrate into our operations. Our acquisitions of PlanetSoft in June 2012 and A.D.A.M. in February 2011, as well as any future acquisitions that we may undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely impact our operating results.The acquisitions of PlanetSoft and A.D.A.M., and other potential future acquisitions, subject the Company to a variety of risks, including risks associated with an inability to efficiently integrate acquired operations, prohibitively higher incremental cost of operations, outdated or incompatible technologies, labor difficulties, or an inability to realize anticipated synergies, whether within anticipated time frames or at all; one or more of which risks, if realized, could have an adverse impact on our operations. Among the issues related to integration such acquisitions are:•potential incompatibility of business cultures;•potential delays in integrating diverse technology platforms;•potential need for additional internal and disclosure controls over financial reporting may become necessary;•potential difficulties in coordinating geographically separated organizations;•potential difficulties in re-training sales forces to market all of our products across all of our intended markets;•potential difficulties implementing common internal business systems and processes;•potential conflicts in third-party relationships; and•potential loss of customers and key employees and the diversion of the attention of management from other ongoing business concerns. We may not be able to develop new products or services necessary to effectively respond to rapid technological changes. Disruptions in our business-critical systems and operations could interfere with our ability to deliver products and services to our customers.To be successful, we must adapt to rapidly changing technological and market needs, by continually enhancing and introducing new products and services to address our customers' changing demands. The marketplace in which we operate is characterized by:•rapidly changing technology;•evolving industry standards;•frequent new product and service introductions;•shifting distribution channels; and•changing customer demands. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to this rapidly evolving marketplace. We could incur substantial costs if we need to modify our services or infrastructure in order to adapt to changes affecting our market, and we may be unable to effectively adapt to these changes.10Table of ContentsThe markets for our products are highly competitive and are likely to become more competitive, and our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technology and changes in customer requirements.We operate in highly competitive markets. In particular, the online insurance distribution market, like the broader electronic commerce market, is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. Our insurance software business also experiences competition from certain large hardware suppliers that sell systems and system components to independent agencies and from small independent developers and suppliers of software, who sometimes work in concert with hardware vendors to supply systems to independent agencies. Pricing strategies and new product introductions and other pressures from existing or emerging competitors could result in a loss of customers or a rate of increase or decrease in prices for our services different than past experience. Our Internet facilitated businesses may also face indirect competition from insurance carriers that have subsidiaries which perform in-house agency and brokerage functions.Some of our current competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do. In addition, we believe we will face increasing competition as the online financial services industry develops and evolves. Our current and future competitors may be able to:•undertake more extensive marketing campaigns for their brands and services;•devote more resources to website and systems development;•adopt more aggressive pricing policies; and•make more attractive offers to potential employees, online companies and third-party service providers. We regard our intellectual property in general and our software in particular, as critical to our success.We rely on copyright laws and licenses and confidentiality-nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary rights as well as the intellectual property rights of third parties whose content we license. However, it is not possible to prevent all unauthorized uses of these rights. We cannot provide assurances that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights, and the rights of those from whom we license intellectual property, are adequate to deter misappropriation or that we will be able to detect unauthorized uses and take timely and effective steps to remedy this unauthorized conduct. In particular, a significant portion of our revenue is derived internationally including in jurisdictions where protecting intellectual property rights may prove even more challenging. To prevent or respond to unauthorized uses of our intellectual property, we might be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation and we may not ultimately prevail. If we infringe on the proprietary rights of others, our business operations may be disrupted, and any related litigation could be time consuming and costly.Third parties may claim that we have violated their intellectual property rights. Any such claim, with or without merit, could subject us to costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. To the extent that we violate a patent or other intellectual property right of a third party, we may be prevented from operating our business as planned, and we may be required to pay damages, to obtain a license, if available, to use the right or to use a non-infringing method, if possible, to accomplish our objectives. The cost of such activity could have a material adverse effect on our business.We face risks in the transmittal of individual health-related information. We face potential risks and financial liabilities associated with obtaining and transmitting personal account information that includes social security numbers and individual health-related information. Outsiders may access information by breaching our security systems or by inappropriate actions of our personnel. Our risks would include damage of our reputation, additional costs to address and remediate any problems encountered as well as litigation and potential financial penalties.We depend on the continued services of our senior management and our ability to attract and retain other key personnel.Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued services and continuing contributions of our senior management and other key personnel particularly Robin Raina, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board. Since becoming Chief Executive Officer of the Company in 1999, Mr. Raina's strategic direction and vision for the Company and the implementation of such direction has been instrumental in our profitable turnaround and growth. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. Our future success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. If we are not able to attract and retain key skilled personnel, our business could be harmed. 11Table of ContentsOur international operations are subject to a number of risks that could affect our revenues, operating results, and growth.We market our products and services internationally and plan to continue to expand our Internet-based services to locations outside of the United States. We currently conduct operations in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Brazil, Singapore, and England, and have product development activities and call center services in India. Our international operations are subject to other inherent risks which could have a material adverse effect on our business, including:•the impact of recessions in foreign economies on the level of consumers' insurance shopping and purchasing behavior;•greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable;•difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations;•reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;•burdensome regulatory requirements;•trade and financing barriers, and differing business practices;•potentially adverse tax consequences; and•political and economic instability.Our financial position and operating results may be adversely affected by the changing U.S. Dollar rates and fluctuations in other currency exchange rates.We will be exposed to currency exchange risk with respect to the U.S. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in the countries where we conduct operations because a significant portion of our operating expenses are incurred in foreign countries. This exposure may increase if we expand our operations overseas. We will monitor changes in our exposure to exchange rate risk that result from changes in our business operations.Risks Relating to Litigation and Regulation The costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters involving us or our subsidiaries, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation, investigations, inquiries or similar matters arising out of our business, including those described in “Part I, Item 3 - Legal Proceedings” and “Part II - Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 6 - Commitments and Contingencies” of this Report. Ebix cannot predict the outcome of these or any other legal matters. In the future, we may need to record litigation reserves with respect to these matters. Further, regardless of how these matters proceed, it could divert our management's attention and other resources away from our business. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us and indemnification rights to which we are entitled may not be honored, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, premiums for insurance covering directors' and officers' liability are rising. We may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms or at historic rates, if at all. Government investigations may require significant management time and attention, result in significant legal expenses or damages and cause the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows to suffer. The Company could face additional governmental investigations with respect to these matters, could incur substantial costs to defend any such investigations and be required to pay damages, fines and penalties, or incur additional expenses or be subject to injunctions as a result of the outcome of such investigations. The unfavorable resolution of one or more matters could adversely impact the Company. On December 3, 2012 and April 16, 2013, the Company received subpoenas from the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) in connection with the conduct by the SEC of a non-public fact-finding inquiry and investigation and seeking documents relating to the issues raised the matter styled In re: Ebix, Inc. Securities Litigation, and in an online news article based on unnamed sources, published on November 3, 2012 speculating about the existence of such an investigation. Additionally, on June 6, 2013, the Company was notified that the U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia had opened an investigation into allegations of intentional misconduct. The Company has cooperated with the government in connection with these investigations and expects to continue to do so. The amount of time needed to resolve these investigations is uncertain, and the Company cannot predict the outcome of these investigations or whether the Company will face additional government investigations, inquiries or other actions. Subject to certain limitations, the Company is obligated to indemnify current and former directors, officers and employees in connection with ongoing governmental investigations and any future government inquiries, investigations or actions. These matters could require the Company to expend significant management time and incur significant legal and other expenses, result in civil and criminal actions seeking, among other things, injunctions against the Company and the payment of significant fines and 12Table of Contentspenalties by the Company and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers and employees, which could have a material effect on the Company's financial condition, business, results of operations and cash flow. Additionally marketplace rumors regarding these investigations could affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of whether these rumors are accurate.If these governmental authorities were to commence legal action, the Company could be required to pay significant penalties and could become subject to injunctions, a cease and desist order and other equitable remedies. The Company can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any governmental investigation.Federal Trade Commission laws and regulations that govern the insurance industry could expose us or the agents, brokers and carriers with whom we conduct business in our online marketplace to legal penalties.We perform functions for licensed insurance agents, brokers and carriers and need to comply with complex regulations that vary from state to state and nation to nation. These regulations can be difficult to comply with, and open to interpretation. If we fail to properly interpret or comply with these regulations, we, the insurance agents, brokers or carriers doing business with us, our officers, or agents with whom we contract could be subject to various sanctions, including censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, loss of license or other penalties. This risk, as well as other laws and regulations affecting our business and changes in the regulatory climate or the enforcement or interpretation of existing law, could expose us to additional costs, including indemnification of participating insurance agents, brokers or carriers, and could require changes to our business or otherwise harm our business. Furthermore, because the application of online commerce to the consumer insurance market is relatively new, the impact of current or future regulations on our business is difficult to anticipate. To the extent that there are changes in regulations regarding the manner in which insurance is sold, our business could be adversely affected.Potential liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on our business.We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, or FCPA, which prohibits people or companies subject to United States jurisdiction and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business or gaining an unfair business advantage. It also requires proper record keeping and characterization of such payments in reports filed with the SEC. To the extent that any of our employees, supplies, distributors, consultants, subcontractors, or others engage in conduct that subjects us to exposure under the FCPA, or other anti-corruption legislation, we could suffer financial penalties, debarment from government contracts and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Risks Related to Our Conduct of Business on the InternetAny disruption of our Internet connections could affect the success of our Internet-based products.Any system failure, including network, software or hardware failure, that causes an interruption in our network or a decrease in the responsiveness of our website could result in reduced user traffic and reduced revenue. Continued growth in Internet usage could cause a decrease in the quality of Internet connection service. Websites have experienced service interruptions as a result of outages and other delays occurring throughout the worldwide Internet network infrastructure. In addition, there have been several incidents in which individuals have intentionally caused service disruptions of major e-commerce websites. If these outages, delays or service disruptions frequently occur in the future, usage of our website could grow more slowly than anticipated or decline and we may lose revenues and customers. If the Internet data center operations that host any of our websites were to experience a system failure, the performance of our website would be harmed. These systems are also vulnerable to damage from fire, floods, and earthquakes, acts of terrorism, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. The controls implemented by our third-party service providers may not prevent or timely detect such system failures. Our property and business interruption insurance coverage may not be adequate to fully compensate us for losses that may occur. In addition, our users depend on Internet service providers, online service providers and other website operators for access to our website. These providers could experience outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems.Concerns regarding security of transactions or the transmission of confidential information over the Internet or security problems we experience may prevent us from expanding our business or subject us to legal exposure.If we do not maintain sufficient security features in our online product and service offerings, our products and services may not gain market acceptance, and we could also be exposed to legal liability. Despite the measures that we have or may take, our infrastructure will be potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses or similar problems. If a person circumvents our security measures, that person could misappropriate proprietary information or disrupt or damage our operations. Security breaches that result in access to confidential information could damage our reputation and subject us to a risk of loss or liability. We may be required to make significant expenditures to protect against or remediate security breaches. 13Table of ContentsAdditionally, if we are unable to adequately address our customers' concerns about security, we may have difficulty selling our products and services.Uncertainty in the marketplace regarding the use of Internet users' personal information, or legislation limiting such use, could reduce demand for our services and result in increased expenses.Concern among consumers and legislators regarding the use of personal information gathered from Internet users could create uncertainty in the marketplace. This could reduce demand for our services, increase the cost of doing business as a result of litigation costs or increased service delivery costs, or otherwise harm our business. Many state insurance codes limit the collection and use of personal information by insurance agencies, brokers and carriers or insurance service organizations. Future government regulation of the Internet could place financial burdens on our businesses.Because of the Internet's popularity and increasing use, new laws and regulations directed specifically at e-commerce may be adopted. These laws and regulations may cover issues such as the collection and use of data from website visitors and related privacy issues; pricing; taxation; telecommunications over the Internet; content; copyrights; distribution; and domain name piracy. The enactment of any additional laws or regulations, including international laws and regulations, could impede the growth of revenue from our Internet operations and place additional financial burdens on our business.Risks Related To Our Common StockThe price of our common stock may be extremely volatile.In a future period, our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market investors, which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, the stock market in general has sometimes experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations recently. We believe that, in the future, the market price of our common stock could fluctuate widely due to variations in our performance and operating results or because of any of the following factors:•announcements of new services, products, or technological innovations, or strategic relationships by us or our competitors;•announcements of business acquisitions or strategic relationships by us or our competitors;•trends or conditions in the insurance, software, business process outsourcing and Internet markets;•changes in market valuations of our competitors; and•general political, economic, regulatory and market conditions. In addition, the market prices of securities of technology companies, including our own, have been volatile and have experienced fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to a specific company's operating performance. As a result, investors may not be able to sell shares of our common stock at or above the price at which an investor paid. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Any securities litigation would involve substantial costs and our management's attention could be diverted from our business.Quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate, which could cause our stock price to be volatile.Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors related to our revenues or operating expenses in any particular period. Results of operations during any particular period are not necessarily an indication of our results for any other period. Factors that may adversely affect our periodic results may include the loss of a significant insurance agent, carrier or broker relationship or the merger of any of our participating insurance carriers with one another. Our operating expenses are based in part on our expectations of our future revenues and are partially fixed in the short term. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall.Provisions in our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even in situations that may be viewed as desirable by our shareholders.Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and the provisions of Delaware law may delay, prevent or otherwise make it more difficult to acquire us by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest, open market purchases, removal of incumbent directors and otherwise. These provisions, which are summarized below, are expected to discourage coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids, and to encourage persons seeking to acquire control of us to first negotiate with us. We are subject to the “business combination” provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, those provisions prohibit a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in various “business combination” transactions with any interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless:14Table of Contents•The transaction is approved by the board of directors prior to the date the interested stockholder obtained interested stockholder status;•Upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder's becoming an interested stockholder, the stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of the corporation outstanding at the time the transaction commenced; or•On or subsequent to the date the business combination is approved by the board of directors, it is authorized at an annual or special meeting of stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the interested stockholder. These provisions could prohibit or delay mergers or other takeover or change of control attempts with respect to us and, accordingly, may discourage attempts to acquire us.1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.