Item 1A. Risk Factors (continued) Regulatory Regime and Changes to Accounting Rules May Adversely Impact Financial Results Irrespective of Business Operations The Company applies fair value accounting for the portion of MBIA Corp.’s business executed in credit derivative form as required by SFAS 133 and changes in fair value are recognized immediately in earnings. Therefore, any increases or decreases in the fair value of these credit derivatives will have an immediate corresponding impact on reported earnings. As changes in fair value can be caused by factors unrelated to the performance of the Company’s business such as general market conditions and perceptions of credit risk, as well as events affecting particular insured credit default swap exposures, the application of fair value accounting may cause the Company’s earnings to be more volatile than would be suggested by the actual performance of the Company’s business operations. In addition, due to the complexity of fair value accounting and the application of SFAS 133, future amendments or interpretations of SFAS 133 may cause the Company to modify its accounting methodology in a manner which may have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial results. Accounting standard and regulatory changes may require modifications to the Company’s accounting methodology, both prospectively and for prior periods and such changes could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial results. As discussed in “Part I, Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments” below, the SEC and the FASB are considering the accounting methodology to be applied by financial guarantee industry participants for claims liability recognition, premium recognition, amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and financial guarantee enhanced securities held for sale in guarantor investment portfolios. When the FASB or the SEC reaches a conclusion on this project, the Company and its financial guarantor peers may be required to change some aspects of their respective loss reserving policies and the potential changes could extend to premium and expense recognition. The FASB is expected to issue proposed guidance in the first quarter of 2007. The Company cannot currently assess how the FASB and SEC staff’s ultimate resolution of this project will impact its loss reserving policy or the effect it might have on recognizing premium revenue and policy acquisition costs. Until final guidance is issued, the Company intends to apply its existing methodology. There can be no certainty, however, that the SEC or the FASB will not require the Company to modify its current methodology, either on a going-forward basis or for prior periods. Any required modification of the Company’s existing methodology, either with respect to these issues or other issues in the future, could have an impact on the Company’s results of operations. A further description of the Company’s loss reserving policy is included in “Note 2: Significant Accounting Policies” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of MBIA Inc. and Subsidiaries in Part II, Item 8. Our Holding Company Structure and Certain Regulatory and Other Constraints Could Affect Our Ability to Pay Dividends and Make Other Payments We are a holding company and have no substantial operations of our own or assets other than our ownership of MBIA Corp., our principal operating subsidiary, MBIA Asset Management, and certain other smaller subsidiaries. As such, we are largely dependent on dividends from MBIA Corp. to pay dividends on our capital stock, to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, to pay our operating expenses, to purchase our common stock in the open market and to make capital investment in our subsidiaries. The inability of MBIA Corp. to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level could affect our ability to repay our debt or have a material adverse effect on our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As a result of discussions in January and February 2005 between the SEC staff and several financial guarantee industry participants, including MBIA, the FASB staff considered whether additional guidance with respect to accounting for financial guarantee insurance should be provided. In June 2005, the FASB decided to add to its agenda a project to consider the accounting by insurers for financial guarantee insurance. As part of this project, the FASB is considering several aspects of the insurance accounting model for financial guarantee insurers, including claims liability recognition, premium recognition and the related amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. When the FASB or the SEC reaches a conclusion on this project, the Company and its financial guarantor peers may be required to change some aspects of their respective loss reserving policies and the potential changes could extend to premium and expense recognition. The FASB is expected to issue proposed guidance in the first quarter of 2007. The Company cannot currently assess how the FASB and SEC staff’s ultimate resolution of this project will impact its loss reserving policy or the effect it might have on recognizing premium revenue and policy acquisition costs. Until final guidance is issued, the Company intends to continue to apply its existing policy with respect to the establishment of both case basis and unallocated loss reserves and the recognition of premium revenue and policy acquisition costs. A further description of the Company’s loss reserving policy is included in “Note 2: Significant Accounting Policies” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of MBIA Inc. and Subsidiaries in Part II, Item 8. 26 