Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are heavily dependent on the electronics industry and changes in the industry could harm our business and operating results. The electronics industry is subject to economic cycles and has in the past experienced, and is likely in the future to experience, recessionary periods. A protracted general recession in the electronics industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results may fluctuate substantially, which may cause our stock price to fall. Our quarterly and annual results of operations have varied in the past, and our operating results may vary significantly in the future due to a number of factors including, but not limited to, the following: timing of orders from major customers; mix of products and services; pricing and other competitive pressures; delays in prototype shipments, economic conditions in the electronics industry, and our ability to time expenditures in anticipation of future revenues. Some executive officers and key personnel are critical to our business and these key personnel may not remain with the Company in the future. Our success depends upon the continued service of some executive officers and other key personnel. Our employees are not bound by employment agreements, and there can be no assurance that the Company will retain its officers and key employees. We may need additional capital in the future, which may not be available. If our capital resources are insufficient to meet future capital requirements, we will have to raise additional funds. The sale of equity or convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our shareholders. If we are unable to obtain adequate funds on reasonable terms, we may be required to curtail operations significantly or to obtain funds by entering into financing agreements on unattractive terms. We are required to be in full compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as of our fiscal year ending December 29, 2008. Under current regulations, the financial cost of compliance with Section 404 is significant. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control in accordance with Section 404 could have a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price. We are in the process of implementing the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires management to assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and include an assertion in our 2007 annual report as to the effectiveness of its controls. The cost to comply with this law will affect our net income adversely during the compliance period. In addition, management`s effort and cost are no assurance that our independent auditors will attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls in its report required by the law in fiscal 2008, and thereafter. If that is the case, the resulting report from our auditors may have a negative impact on our stock price. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading prices of our common stock has been and could in the future be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results, developments in the electronics industry, changes in general economic conditions and economic conditions in the electronics industry, and other factors. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations which have affected the market prices of technology companies and which have been unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of those companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 