Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating Astro-Med because such factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition. As a result of the 6 Table of Contents risk factors set forth below, actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently consider to be immaterial, may also impact our business operations. Depressed general economic conditions, financial market disruptions, and uncertainties in the global credit and equity markets may adversely affect Astro-Med’s results of operation and financial position. Our business is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, both inside and outside the United States. As widely reported, financial markets throughout the world have experienced extreme disruption since 2008, including historically high volatility in securities prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining value of others, failure of major financial institutions and unprecedented government support of financial institutions and corporations. Recurrence of these developments and a related economic downturn may adversely impact our business resulting in: • Reduced demand for our products realized by diminished new orders and increases in order cancellations; • Increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; • Increased pressure on the prices for our products and services; • Greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivables; • Greater risk of impairment to the value and liquidity of our investment portfolio: and • Greater risk that cost reduction actions may be necessary resulting in restructuring charges Astro-Med’s operating results and financial condition could be harmed if the markets into which we sell our product decline or do not grow as anticipated. Any decline in our customers’ markets or in their general economic conditions, including declines related to the market disruptions as described above, would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products. For example, although we have experienced measured progress in fiscal 2012 and 2011, as sales have increased from prior years, we are still affected by the continued global economic downturn as some of our customers remain reluctant to make capital equipment purchases and are limiting consumable product purchases to quantities necessary to satisfy immediate needs with no provisions to stock supplies for future use. Also, if our customers’ markets decline, we may not be able to collect on outstanding amounts due to us. Such declines could harm our results of operations, financial position and cash flows and could limit our ability to continue to remain profitable. Astro-Med’s future revenue growth depends on our ability to introduce new products and services on a timely basis and achieve market acceptance of these new products and services. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology and accelerating product introduction cycles. Our future success depends largely upon our ability to address the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing and supplying high-quality, cost-effective products, product enhancements and services on a timely basis and by keeping pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. The success of our new products will also depend on our ability to differentiate our offerings from our competitors’ offerings; price our products competitively; anticipate our competitor’s development of new products; and maintain high levels of product quality and reliability. Astro-Med spends a significant amount of time and effort related to the development of our Ruggedized and Color Printer products as well as our Test and Measurement products. Failure to further develop any of our new products and their related markets as anticipated could adversely affect our future revenue growth and operating results. Astro-Med faces significant competition and our failure to compete successfully could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in an environment of significant competition, driven by rapid technological advances, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and the demands of customers to become more efficient. 7 Table of Contents Our competitors range from large international companies to relatively small firms. We compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, distribution and customer service and support. Our success in future performance is largely dependent upon our ability to compete successfully in the markets we currently serve and to expand into additional market segments. Additionally, current competitors or new market entrants may develop new products with features that could adversely affect the competitive position of our products. To remain competitive, we must develop new products, services and applications and periodically enhance our existing offerings. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose market share and important customers to our competitors which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Astro-Med is dependent upon contract manufacturers for some of our products. If these manufacturers do not meet our requirements, either in volume or quality, then we could be materially harmed. During fiscal 2012, we subcontracted the manufacturing and assembly of certain of our products to an independent third party at facilities located in various countries. Relying on subcontractors involves a number of significant risks, including: • Loss of control over the manufacturing process; • Potential absence of adequate production capacity; • Potential delays in production lead times; • Unavailability of certain process technologies; and • Reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, quality and costs. If our significant subcontractor becomes unable or unwilling to continue to manufacture these products in required volumes, we will have to identify qualified alternate subcontractors or we will take over the manufacturing ourselves in as much as we own the designs, drawings, and bills of material for all our products. Additional qualified subcontractors may not be available, or may not be available on a timely or cost competitive basis. Any interruption in the supply of, or increase in the cost of, the products manufactured by third party subcontractors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. For certain components and assembled products, Astro-Med is dependent upon single or limited source suppliers. If these suppliers do not meet demand, either in volume or quality, then we could be materially harmed. If the supply of a key component or assembled products were to be delayed or curtailed or, in the event a key manufacturing or sole vendor delays shipment of such components or completed products, our ability to ship products in desired quantities and in a timely manner would be adversely affected. Our business, results of operations and financial position could also be adversely affected, depending on the time required to obtain sufficient quantities from the original source or, if possible, to identify and obtain sufficient quantities from an alternative source. Additionally, if any single or limited source supplier becomes unable or unwilling to continue to supply these components or assembled products in required volumes, we will have to identify and qualify acceptable replacements or redesign our products with different components. Alternative sources may not be available, or product redesign may not be feasible on a timely basis. Any interruption in the supply of or increase in the cost of the components and assembled products provided by single or limited source suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect Astro-Med’s results of operations and financial position. Because we sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Revenue from international operations, which includes both direct and indirect sales to customers outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 30% of our total revenue for fiscal year 2012 and we anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue. In addition, many of our 8 Table of Contents employees, suppliers, job functions and facilities are located outside the U.S. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • Interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers; • Customer and vendor financial stability; • Changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • Changes in a specific country’s or region’s environment including political, economic, monetary, regulatory or other conditions; • Trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • Negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • Difficulty in managing and overseeing operations that are distant and remote from corporate headquarters; • Difficulty in obtaining and maintaining adequate staffing; • Differing labor regulations; • Differing protection of intellectual property; • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and • Geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism and war. Astro-Med’s profitability is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and to improve our cost structure. Our success depends on our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services which provides a reasonable return to our shareholders. Depending on competitive market factors, future prices we obtain for our products and services may decline from previous levels. In addition, pricing actions to offset the effect of currency devaluations may not prove sufficient to offset further devaluations or may not hold in the face of customer resistance and/or competition. If we are unable to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services, our results of operations and financial position could be materially adversely affected. We are continually reviewing our operations with a view towards reducing our cost structure, including but not limited to downsizing our employee base, exiting certain businesses, improving process and system efficiencies and outsourcing some internal functions. From time to time we also engage in restructuring actions to reduce our cost structure. If we are unable to maintain our cost base at or below the current level and maintain process and systems changes resulting from cost reduction and prior restructuring actions, our results of operations and financial position could be materially adversely affected. Astro-Med could incur liabilities as a result of installed product failures due to design or manufacturing defects. Astro-Med could incur liabilities as a result of installed product failures due to design or manufacturing defects. Our products may have defects despite testing internally or by current or potential customers. These defects could result in among other things, a delay in recognition of sales, loss of sales, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance or substantial damage to our reputation. We could be subject to material claims by customers, and may need to incur substantial expenses to correct any product defects. Astro-Med is subject to laws and regulations; failure to address or comply with these laws and regulations could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are subject to laws, rules, regulations, including environmental regulations, government policies and other requirements in each of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Changes in laws, rules, regulations, policies or requirements could result in the need to modify our products and could affect the demand 9 Table of Contents for our products, which may have an adverse impact on our future operating results. In addition, we must comply with new regulations restricting our ability to include lead and certain other substances in our products. If we do not comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations we could be subject to costs and liabilities and our business may be adversely impacted. A number of our products from our Grass Technologies product group are subject to regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and certain similar foreign regulatory agencies. If we or any of our suppliers or distributors fail to comply with FDA and other applicable regulatory requirements or are perceived potentially to have failed to comply, we may face, among other things, adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; investigations or notices of non-compliance; fines, injunctions and civil penalties; partial suspensions or total shutdown of production facilities or the imposition of operating restrictions; increased difficulty in obtaining required FDA clearances or approvals; seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers, and/or the inability to sell our products. Adverse conditions in the global banking industry and credit markets may adversely impact the value of our investments or impair our liquidity. At the end of fiscal 2012, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $11.7 million invested or held in a mix of money market funds and bank demand deposit accounts. The continued disruptions in the financial markets may, in some cases, result in an inability to access assets such as money market funds that traditionally have been viewed as highly liquid. Any failure of our counterpart financial institutions or funds in which we have invested may adversely impact our cash and cash equivalent positions and, in turn, our results of operations and financial position. As of January 31, 2012, we also had an approximate $11.3 million portfolio of securities available for sale. This portfolio consists of state and municipal securities with various maturity dates, all of which have a credit rating of AA or above at the original purchase date; however, failure of any of these securities may result in an adverse impact on our portfolio. Astro-Med may not be able to effectively integrate businesses or assets acquired. We may identify and pursue acquisitions of complementary companies and strategic assets, such as customer bases, products and technology. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities. In any acquisition that we complete we cannot be certain that: • We will successfully integrate the operations of the acquired business with our own; • All the benefits expected from such integration will be realized; • Management’s attention will not be diverted or divided, to the detriment of current operations; • Amortization of acquired intangible assets will not have a negative effect on operating results or other aspects of our business; • Delays or unexpected costs related to the acquisition will not have a detrimental effect on our business, operating results and financial condition; • Customer dissatisfaction with, or performance problems at, an acquired company will not have an adverse effect on our reputation; and • Respective operations, management and personnel will be compatible. In certain instances as permitted by applicable law and NASDAQ rules, acquisitions may be consummated without seeking and obtaining shareholder approval, in which case shareholders will not have an opportunity to consider and vote upon the merits of such an acquisition. Although we will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular acquisition, there can be no assurance that we will properly ascertain or assess such risks. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 10 Table of Contents 