Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating Astro-Med because such factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition. As a result of the risk factors set forth below, actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently consider to be immaterial, may also impact our business operations. Astro-Med’s operating results and financial condition could be harmed if the markets into which we sell our product decline or do not grow as anticipated. Any decline in our customers’ markets or in their general economic conditions would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products. For example, although we have experienced measured progress in fiscal 2014 and 2013, as sales have increased from prior years, we are still affected by the continued global economic uncertainty as some of our customers remain reluctant to make capital equipment purchases and are limiting consumable product purchases to quantities necessary to satisfy immediate needs with no provisions to stock supplies for future use. Also, if our customers’ markets decline, we may not be able to collect on outstanding 6 Table of Contents amounts due to us. Such declines could harm our results of operations, financial position and cash flows and could limit our ability to continue to remain profitable. Astro-Med’s future revenue growth depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and services on a timely basis and achieve market acceptance of these new products and services. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and accelerating product introduction cycles. Our future success depends largely upon our ability to address the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing and supplying high-quality, cost-effective products, product enhancements and services on a timely basis and by keeping pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. The success of our new products will also depend on our ability to differentiate our offerings from our competitors’ offerings, price our products competitively, anticipate our competitor’s development of new products, and maintain high levels of product quality and reliability. Astro-Med spends a significant amount of time and effort related to the development of our Rugged and Color Printer products as well as our Test and Measurement recorder products. Failure to further develop any of our new products and their related markets as anticipated could adversely affect our future revenue growth and operating results. As Astro-Med introduces new or enhanced products, we must also successfully manage the transition from older products to minimize disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and provide sufficient supplies of new products to meet customer demands. The introduction of new or enhanced products may shorten the life cycle of our existing products, or replace sales of some of our current products, thereby offsetting the benefit of even a successful product introduction and may cause customers to defer purchasing existing products in anticipation of the new products. Additionally, when we introduce new or enhanced products, we face numerous risks relating to product transitions, including the inability to accurately forecast demand, manage excess and obsolete inventories, address new or higher product cost structures, and manage different sales and support requirements due to the type or complexity of the new products. Any customer uncertainty regarding the timeline for rolling out new products or Astro-Med’s plans for future support of existing products may cause customers to delay purchase decisions or purchase competing products which would adversely affect our business and operating results. Astro-Med faces significant competition and our failure to compete successfully could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. While we do maintain a dominant position in our markets, we operate in an environment of significant competition, driven by rapid technological advances, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and the demands of customers to become more efficient. Our competitors range from large international companies to relatively small firms. We compete on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, distribution and customer service and support. Our success in future performance is largely dependent upon our ability to compete successfully in the markets we currently serve and to expand into additional market segments. Additionally, current competitors or new market entrants may develop new products with features that could adversely affect the competitive position of our products. To remain competitive, we must develop new products, services and applications and periodically enhance our existing offerings. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose market share and important customers to our competitors which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. Astro-Med is dependent upon contract manufacturers for some of our products. If these manufacturers do not meet our requirements, either in volume or quality, then we could be materially harmed. We subcontract the manufacturing and assembly of certain of our products to an independent third party at facilities located in various countries. Relying on subcontractors involves a number of significant risks, including: • Loss of control over the manufacturing process; 7 Table of Contents • Potential absence of adequate production capacity; • Potential delays in production lead times; • Unavailability of certain process technologies; and • Reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, quality and costs. If one of our significant subcontractors becomes unable or unwilling to continue to manufacture these products in required volumes or fails to meet our quality standards, we will have to identify qualified alternate subcontractors or we will take over the manufacturing ourselves in as much as we own the designs, drawings, and bills of material for all our products. Additional qualified subcontractors may not be available, or may not be available on a timely or cost competitive basis. Any interruption in the supply of, or increase in the cost of, the products manufactured by third party subcontractors or failure of a subcontractor to meet quality standards could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. For certain components and assembled products, Astro-Med is dependent upon single or limited source suppliers. If these suppliers do not meet demand, either in volume or quality, then we could be materially harmed. Although we use standard parts and components for our products where possible, we purchase certain components and assembled products used in the manufacture of our products from single source or limited supplier sources. If the supply of a key component or assembled products were to be delayed or curtailed or, in the event a key manufacturing or sole vendor delays shipment of such components or completed products, our ability to ship products in desired quantities and in a timely manner would be adversely affected. Our business, results of operations and financial position could also be adversely affected, depending on the time required to obtain sufficient quantities from the original source or, if possible, to identify and obtain sufficient quantities from an alternative source. Additionally, if any single or limited source supplier becomes unable or unwilling to continue to supply these components or assembled products in required volumes, we will have to identify and qualify acceptable replacements or redesign our products with different components. Alternative sources may not be available, or product redesign may not be feasible on a timely basis. Any interruption in the supply of or increase in the cost of the components and assembled products provided by single or limited source suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Compliance with new rules governing, “conflict minerals” could adversely affect the availability of certain product components and our costs and results of operations could be materially harmed. In July 2010, the United States federal government enacted the Dodd-Frank Act which contained provisions that mandated the creation of rules by the SEC for public companies to ascertain the region of origin of certain minerals, commonly known as “conflict minerals,” used in the production of goods and if those minerals originated in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or an adjoining country. It may be possible that conflict minerals may be part of the supply chain in our industry and contained in our products. In August 2012, the SEC adopted a new rule requiring disclosures of conflict minerals that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by public companies. The new rule, which went into effect for calendar year 2013, requires a disclosure report to be filed with the SEC by May 31, 2014 and will require us to perform due diligence and disclose whether or not our products contain such minerals and from which countries and source the minerals were obtained. The new rule could adversely affect the sourcing, availability, and pricing of minerals used in the manufacture of certain components used in Astro-Med’s products. In addition, we will incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements for conflict minerals, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals and metals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes or sources of supplies as a consequence of such verification activities. As we use contract manufacturers for some of our products, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. We may also encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so. As a result, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. 8 Table of Contents Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect Astro-Med’s results of operations and financial position. Because we sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Revenue from international operations, which includes both direct and indirect sales to customers outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 30% of our total revenue for fiscal year 2014 and we anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue. In addition, we have employees, suppliers, job functions and facilities located outside the U.S. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • Interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers; • Customer and vendor financial stability; • Changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • Changes in a specific country’s or region’s environment including political, economic, monetary, regulatory or other conditions; • Trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • Negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • Difficulty in managing and overseeing operations that are distant and remote from corporate headquarters; • Difficulty in obtaining and maintaining adequate staffing; • Differing labor regulations; • Differing protection of intellectual property; • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and • Geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism and war. Astro-Med’s profitability is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and to improve our cost structure. Our success depends on our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services which provides a reasonable return to our shareholders. Depending on competitive market factors, future prices we obtain for our products and services may decline from previous levels. In addition, pricing actions to offset the effect of currency devaluations may not prove sufficient to offset further devaluations or may not hold in the face of customer resistance and/or competition. If we are unable to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services, our results of operations and financial position could be materially adversely affected. We are continually reviewing our operations with a view towards reducing our cost structure, including but not limited to downsizing our employee base, exiting certain businesses, improving process and system efficiencies and outsourcing some internal functions. From time to time we also engage in restructuring actions to reduce our cost structure. If we are unable to maintain process and systems changes resulting from cost reduction and prior restructuring actions, our results of operations and financial position could be materially adversely affected. Astro-Med could incur liabilities as a result of installed product failures due to design or manufacturing defects. Astro-Med could incur liabilities as a result of installed product failures due to design or manufacturing defects. Our products may have defects despite testing internally or by current or potential customers. These defects could result in among other things, a delay in recognition of sales, loss of sales, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance or substantial damage to our reputation. We could be subject to material claims by customers, and may need to incur substantial expenses to correct any product defects. 9 Table of Contents In addition, through our acquisitions, we have assumed-and may in the future assume liabilities related to products previously developed by an acquired company that have not been through the same level of product development, testing and quality control processes used by us, and may have known or undetected errors. Some types of errors may not be detected until the product is installed in a user environment. This may cause Astro-Med to incur significant warranty and repair costs, may divert the attention of engineering personnel from product development efforts, and may cause significant customer relations problems such as reputational problems with customers resulting in increased costs and lower profitability. Astro-Med could experience disruptions in, or breach in security of, our information technology system or fail to implement new systems or software successfully which could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Astro-Med employs information technology systems to support our business, including the ongoing phased implementation of a new enterprise resource planning (ERP) system in fiscal 2014 and 2015 for all of our U.S. operations. Security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure could interfere with operations, compromise our information and that of our customers and suppliers, and expose us to liability which could adversely impact our business and reputation. In the ordinary course of business, we rely on information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. Additionally, we collect and store certain data, including proprietary business information, and may have access to confidential or personal information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer-imposed controls. While we continually work to safeguard our systems and mitigate potential risks, there is no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent cyber attacks or security breaches and our information technology networks and infrastructure may still be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attack by hackers or breaches, employee error, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures, systems failures, natural disasters, catastrophic events or other unforeseen events. While we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats to our information technology networks and infrastructure, none of them to date has had a material impact. There may be other challenges and risks as we upgrade and implement our new ERP system. Any such events could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or penalties under privacy laws, disruption in operations, and damage to the Company’s reputation, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Astro-Med is subject to laws and regulations; failure to address or comply with these laws and regulations could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are subject to laws, rules, regulations, including environmental regulations, government policies and other requirements in each of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Changes in laws, rules, regulations, policies or requirements could result in the need to modify our products and could affect the demand for our products, which may have an adverse impact on our future operating results. In addition, we must comply with new regulations restricting our ability to include lead and certain other substances in our products. If we do not comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations we could be subject to costs and liabilities and our business may be adversely impacted. Adverse conditions in the global banking industry and credit markets may adversely impact the value of our investments or impair our liquidity. At the end of fiscal 2014, we had approximately $27 million of cash, cash equivalents and investments held for sale. Our cash and cash equivalents are held in a mix of money market funds and bank demand deposit accounts. Disruptions in the financial markets may, in some cases, result in an inability to access assets such as money market funds that traditionally have been viewed as highly liquid. Any failure of our counterpart financial institutions or funds in which we have invested may adversely impact our cash and cash equivalent positions and, in turn, our financial position. Our investment portfolio consists of state and municipal securities with various maturity dates, all of which have a credit rating of AA or above at the original purchase date; however, defaults by the issuers of any of these securities may result in an adverse impact on our portfolio. 10 Table of Contents Astro-Med may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, divestitures and strategic partnerships, and integration of acquired companies or divestiture of businesses may negatively impact Astro-Med’s overall business. Astro-Med has, in the past, acquired or made strategic investments in other companies, products and technologies, including our most recent acquisition in January 2014 of the Ruggedized Printer Product line from Miltope. We may continue to identify and pursue acquisitions of complementary companies and strategic assets, such as customer bases, products and technology. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities. In any acquisition that we complete we cannot be certain that: • We will successfully integrate the operations of the acquired business with our own; • All the benefits expected from such integration will be realized; • Management’s attention will not be diverted or divided, to the detriment of current operations; • Amortization of acquired intangible assets will not have a negative effect on operating results or other aspects of our business; • Delays or unexpected costs related to the acquisition will not have a detrimental effect on our business, operating results and financial condition; • Customer dissatisfaction with, or performance problems at, an acquired company will not have an adverse effect on our reputation; and • Respective operations, management and personnel will be compatible. In certain instances as permitted by applicable law and NASDAQ rules, acquisitions may be consummated without seeking and obtaining shareholder approval, in which case shareholders will not have an opportunity to consider and vote upon the merits of such an acquisition. Although we will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular acquisition, there can be no assurance that we will properly ascertain or assess such risks. Astro-Med may also divest certain businesses from time to time. On January 31, 2013, we completed the sale of substantially all of the assets of our Grass Technologies Product Group. Divestitures will likely involve risks, such as difficulty splitting up businesses, distracting employees, potential loss of revenue and negatively impacting margins, and potentially disrupting customer relationships. A successful divestiture depends on various factors, including our ability to: • Effectively transfer assets, liabilities, contracts, facilities and employees to the purchaser; • Identify and separate the intellectual property to be divested from the intellectual property that we wish to keep; and • Reduce fixed costs previously associated with the divested assets or business. All of these efforts require varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. Further, if market conditions or other factors lead us to change our strategic direction, we may not realize the expected value from such transactions. If Astro-Med is not able to successfully integrate or divest businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we acquire or divest, or able to realize expected benefits of our acquisitions, divestitures or strategic partnerships, Astro-Med’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 11 Table of Contents 