Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating Astro-Med because such factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition. As a result of the risk factors set forth below, actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently consider to be immaterial, may also impact our business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition. If any such risks 6 Table of Contents occur, Astro-Med’s business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition could be materially affected in an adverse manner. Under such circumstances, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Declining general economic conditions and uncertainties in the global credit and equity markets may adversely affect Astro-Med’s results of operation and financial position. Our business is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, both inside and outside the U.S. Worldwide financial markets have experienced extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades and declining valuations of investments. These disruptions are likely to have an ongoing adverse effect on the world economy. We are unable to predict how long the economic downturn will last. Continuing economic downturn and financial market disruptions may adversely impact our business resulting in: • Reduced demand for our products realized by diminished new orders and increases in order cancellations; • Increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; • Increased pressure on the prices for our products and services; • Greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivables; and • Greater risk of impairment to the value and liquidity of our investment portfolio. Astro-Med faces significant competition and our failure to compete successfully could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in an environment of significant competition, driven by rapid technological advances, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and the demands of customers to become more efficient. Our competitors range from large international companies to relatively small firms. We compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, distribution and customer service and support. Our success in future performance is largely dependent upon our ability to compete successfully in the markets we currently serve and to expand into additional market segments. Additionally, current competitors or new market entrants may develop new products with features that could adversely affect the competitive position of our products. To remain competitive, we must develop new products, services and applications and periodically enhance our existing offerings. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose market share and important customers to our competitors and that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Astro-Med’s future revenue growth depends on our ability to introduce new products and services on a timely basis and achieve market acceptance of these new products and services. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology and accelerating product introduction cycles. Our future success depends largely upon our ability to address the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing and supplying high-quality, cost-effective products, product enhancements and services on a timely basis and by keeping pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. Astro-Med spends a significant amount of time and effort related to the development of our Ruggedized and Color Printer products. Failure to further develop these products and markets as anticipated could adversely affect our future revenue growth and operating results. For certain components and assembled products, Astro-Med is dependent upon single or limited source suppliers. If these suppliers do not meet demand, either in volume or quality, then we could be materially harmed. If the supply of a key component or assembled products were to be delayed or curtailed or, in the event a key manufacturing or sole vendor delays shipment of such components or completed products, our ability to ship products in desired quantities and in a timely manner would be adversely affected. Our business, results of 7 Table of Contents operations and financial position could also be adversely affected, depending on the time required to obtain sufficient quantities from the original source or, if possible, to identify and obtain sufficient quantities from an alternative source. Additionally, if any single or limited source supplier becomes unable or unwilling to continue to supply these components or assembled products in required volumes, we will have to identify and qualify acceptable replacements or redesign our products with different components. Alternative sources may not be available, or product redesign may not be feasible on a timely basis. Any interruption in the supply of or increase in the cost of the components and assembled products provided by single or limited source suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect Astro-Med’s results of operations and financial position. Because we sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Revenue from international operations, which includes both direct and indirect sales to customers outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 30% of our total revenue for fiscal year 2009 and we anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue. In addition, many of our employees, suppliers, job functions and facilities are located outside the U.S. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • Interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers; • Customer and vendor financial stability; • Changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • Changes in a specific country’s or region’s political, economic or other conditions; • Trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • Negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • Difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • Differing labor regulations; • Differing protection of intellectual property; • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and • Geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism and war. Astro-Med’s profitability is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and to improve our cost structure. Our success depends on our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services which provides a reasonable return to our shareholders. Depending on competitive market factors, future prices we obtain for our products and services may decline from previous levels. In addition, pricing actions to offset the effect of currency devaluations may not prove sufficient to offset further devaluations or may not hold in the face of customer resistance and/or competition. If we are unable to obtain adequate pricing for our products and services, our results of operations and financial position could be materially adversely affected. We continually review our operations with a view towards reducing our cost structure, including but not limited to downsizing our employee base, exiting certain businesses, improving process and system efficiencies and outsourcing some internal functions. We from time to time engage in restructuring actions to reduce our cost structure. If we are unable to continue to maintain our cost base at or below the current level and maintain process and systems changes resulting from prior restructuring actions, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. 8 Table of Contents Astro-Med’s results of operation may suffer if our manufacturing capacity does not match the demand for our products. Because we cannot immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to rapidly changing market conditions, when demand does not meet our expectations, our manufacturing capacity will likely exceed our production requirements. If, during a general market upturn or an upturn in one of our segments, we cannot increase our manufacturing capacity to meet product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner. This inability could materially and adversely limit our ability to improve our results. By contrast, if during an economic downturn we had excess manufacturing capacity, then our fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity would adversely affect our income. Third parties may infringe our intellectual property and we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our rights. Astro-Med’s success depends in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on various intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements, to establish our proprietary rights. If we do not enforce our intellectual property rights successfully our competitive position may suffer which could harm our results of operation and financial position. Our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. We may need to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights and we may or may not be able to detect infringement by third parties. Our competitive position may be harmed if we cannot detect infringement and enforce our intellectual property rights quickly or at all. In some circumstances, enforcement may not be available to us because an infringer has a dominant intellectual property position or for other business reasons. In addition, competitors might avoid infringement by designing around our intellectual property rights or by developing non-infringing competing technologies. Most of our trademarks have no foreign protection since we have not registered them in foreign countries. Intellectual property rights and our ability to enforce them may be unavailable or limited in some countries which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share and could result in lost revenues. Astro-Med could incur liabilities as a result of installed product failures due to design or manufacturing defects. Astro-Med could incur liabilities as a result of installed product failures due to design or manufacturing defects. Our products may have defects despite testing internally or by current or potential customers. These defects could result in among other things, a delay in recognition of sales, loss of sales, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance or substantial damage to our reputation. We could be subject to material claims by customers, and may need to incur substantial expenses to correct any product defects. Astro-Med depends on the ongoing service of its senior management and ability to attract and retain other key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continuing contributions of key management, sales, marketing, research and development and manufacturing personnel, many of whom we would have difficulty replacing. We believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled engineers and management, sales and marketing personnel. Failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position. Astro-Med is subject to laws and regulations; failure to address or comply with these laws and regulations could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are subject to laws, rules, regulations, including environmental regulations, government policies and other requirements in each of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Changes in laws, rules, regulations, policies or requirements could result in the need to modify our products and could affect the demand 9 Table of Contents for our products, which may have an adverse impact on our future operating results. In addition, we must comply with new regulations restricting our ability to include lead and certain other substances in our products. If we do not comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations we could be subject to costs and liabilities and our business may be adversely impacted. A number of our products from our Grass Technology product group are subject to regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and certain similar foreign regulatory agencies. If we or any of our suppliers or distributors fail to comply with FDA and other applicable regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face, among other things, adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; investigations or notices of non-compliance; fines, injunctions and civil penalties; partial suspensions or total shutdown of production facilities or the imposition of operating restrictions; increased difficulty in obtaining required FDA clearances or approvals; seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers, and/or the inability to sell our products. Astro-Med sells medical equipment to customers who rely on certain third party reimbursement rates. We cannot be certain that third party reimbursement rates and policies will continue in the future. Any change in reimbursement rates and policies could adversely impact our profitability. Adverse conditions in the global banking industry and credit markets may adversely impact the value of our cash investments or impair our liquidity. At the end of fiscal 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $11 million invested or held in a mix of money market funds, time deposit accounts and bank demand deposit accounts. The recent disruptions in the financial markets may, in some cases, result in an inability to access assets such as money market funds that traditionally have been viewed as highly liquid. Any failure of our counterparty financial institutions or funds in which we have invested may adversely impact our cash and cash equivalent positions and, in turn, our results of operations and financial position. As of January 31, 2009, we also had an approximate $10 million portfolio of securities available for sale which is primarily classified as a current asset. This portfolio consists of auction rate securities and state and municipal securities with various maturity dates. All of the securities in the portfolio are triple AAA rated at original purchase date; however, a failure of the issuer of any such commercial paper may result in an adverse impact on the portfolio. As of January 31, 2009, we held $890,925 of auction rate securities classified as long-term investments available for sale. If the uncertainties in the credit and capital market continue, these markets continue to deteriorate or the various rating agencies downgrade any of the auction rate securities that we hold, we may be required to further write-down the value of these investments. Astro-Med may not be able to effectively integrate businesses or assets acquired. We may identify and pursue acquisitions of complementary companies and strategic assets, such as customer bases, products and technology. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities. If any such opportunity involves the acquisition of a business, we cannot be certain that: • We will successfully integrate the operations of the acquired business with our own; • All the benefits expected from such integration will be realized; • Management’s attention will not be diverted or divided, to the detriment of current operations; • Amortization of acquired intangible assets will not have a negative effect on operating results or other aspects of our business; • Delays or unexpected costs related to the acquisition will not have a detrimental effect on our business, operating results and financial condition; 10 Table of Contents • Customer dissatisfaction with, or performance problems at, an acquired company will not have an adverse effect on our reputation; and • Respective operations, management and personnel will be compatible. In certain instances as permitted by applicable law and NASDAQ rules, acquisitions will be consummated without seeking and obtaining shareholder approval, in which case shareholders will not have an opportunity to consider and vote upon the merits of such an acquisition. Although we will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular acquisition, there can be no assurance that we will properly ascertain or assess such risks. Business interruptions could adversely affect Astro-Med’s business. Our operations and the operations of our suppliers, contract manufacturers and customers are vulnerable to interruptions by fire, earthquake, hurricane, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism and other events beyond our control. Although we carry insurance for property damage and business interruption, we do not carry insurance for interruptions or potential losses arising from terrorism. In the event that a material business interruption occurs that affects Astro-Med, its suppliers, contract manufacturers or customers, shipments could be delayed and our business and financial results could be harmed. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 