Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are heavily dependent on the electronics industry and changes in the industry could harm our business and operating results. The electronics industry is subject to economic cycles, demand in some segments is currently volatile, and is likely in the future to experience recessionary periods. A protracted general recession in the electronics industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results may fluctuate substantially, which may cause our stock price to fall. Our quarterly and annual results of operations have varied in the past, and our operating results may vary significantly in the future due to a number of factors including, but not limited to: timing of orders from major customers; mix of products and services; pricing and other competitive pressures; delays in prototype shipments, economic conditions in the electronics industry, raw material costs, and our ability to time expenditures in anticipation of future revenues. Some executive officers and key personnel are critical to our business and these key personnel may not remain with the Company in the future. Our success depends upon the continued service of some executive officers and other key personnel. Our employees are not bound by employment agreements, and there can be no assurance that the Company will retain its officers and key employees. We may need additional capital in the future, which may not be available. If our capital resources are insufficient to meet future capital requirements, we will have to raise additional funds. The sale of equity or convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our shareholders. If we are unable to obtain adequate funds on reasonable terms, we may be required to curtail operations significantly or to obtain funds by entering into financing agreements on unattractive terms. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading prices of our common stock has been and could in the future be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results, developments in the electronics industry, changes in general economic conditions and economic conditions in the electronics industry, and other factors. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations which have affected the market prices of technology companies and which have been unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of those companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The Company relies on a small number of customers for a large percentage of its revenues. Historically the Company has had a small number of customers representing a large percentage of its total sales. Although the Company endeavors to expand its customer base, we expect that sales to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of our revenues in any given period for the foreseeable future. The reliance makes us particularly susceptible to factors affecting those customers. If such customers’ business declines and as a result our sales to such customers decline without corresponding sales orders from other customers, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. The growth of our business depends upon the development and successful commercial acceptance of our new products. Our failure to develop, manufacture, and sell new products in quantities sufficient to offset a decline in revenue from existing products or to successfully manage product and related inventory transactions could harm our business. We depend upon timely and efficient completion of design and development, implementation of manufacturing processes, and effective sales, marketing and customer service. Because of the complexity of our products, significant delays may occur in introducing new products, or between a product’s initial introduction and volume production. Technological changes may make our products obsolete or result in decreased prices or increased expenses. Although our products are “designed-in” and often have lives lasting several years, and technological changes could eliminate our competitive advantages. This could lead to significant price erosion for products. Our success will depend in part on our ability to develop and offer more advanced products in the future, to anticipate both future demand and the technology to supply that demand, to enhance our current products and services, to provide those products and services at competitive prices on a timely and cost-effective basis to achieve market acceptance of those products and services. Our military business could suffer as a result of the pressures to reduce defense spending. Over the past two years revenues from our contract with the U.S. Army Research Laboratory represented less than 5% of the Company’s total revenue. This contract will expire in 2014 and pressures to reduce national spending on defense could make it difficult to continue to generate revenues from the military sector in the near future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 