Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a degree of risk. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. Astro-Med competes in highly competitive markets which are likely to become more competitive. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. Current competitors or new market entrants may develop new products with features that could adversely affect the competitive position of our products. We may not be successful in selecting, developing, manufacturing and marketing new products or enhancing our existing products or in responding effectively to technological changes, new standards or product announcements by competitors. The timely availability of new products and enhancements, and their acceptance by customers are important to our future success. Delays in such availability or a lack of market acceptance could have an adverse effect on our business. Additionally, there may be technological innovation that eliminates or reduces the needs for our products. 6 Table of Contents Astro-Med could incur liabilities as a result of installed product failures due to design or manufacturing defects. Our products may have defects despite testing internally or by current or potential customers. These defects could result in product returns or recalls and loss or delay in market acceptance which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Astro-Med sells a significant portion of its products internationally. We sell our products worldwide through several foreign locations and distributors. Our worldwide operations are subject to the risks normally associated with foreign operations including, but not limited to: • Customer and vendor financial stability; • Volatility in general world economic conditions; • The disruption of markets; • Changes in export or import laws; • Restrictions on currency exchanges; • Longer payment terms; and • The modification or introduction of government policies with potentially adverse effects. International sales, which are both direct and indirect sales to customers outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 30% of our sales in fiscal 2008. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue. We invoice our customers in various currencies. Therefore, we may be exposed to exchange losses based upon currency exchange rate fluctuations, which losses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Astro-Med depends on the ongoing service of its senior management and ability to attract and retain other key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continuing contributions of key management, sales, marketing, research and development and manufacturing personnel, many of whom we would have difficulty replacing. We believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled engineers and management, sales and marketing personnel. Failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial position. Astro-Med cannot provide any assurance that current laws, or any laws enacted in the future, will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations are subject to laws, rules, regulations, including environmental regulations, government policies and other requirements in each of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Changes in laws, rules, regulations, policies or requirements could result in the need to modify our products and could affect the demand for our products, which may have an adverse impact on our future operating results. In addition, we must comply with new regulations restricting our ability to include lead and certain other substances in our products. If we do not comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations we could be subject to costs and liabilities and our business may be adversely impacted. Astro-Med relies on sole source suppliers that may result in product delays or price increases. We currently obtain certain components of our products and certain finished products from sole sources. In the future, our suppliers may not be able to meet our demand for components and products in a timely and cost effective manner. Our inability to secure and qualify alternative sources of supply in a timely manner may disrupt our ability to fulfill customer orders. Astro-Med spends a significant amount of time and effort related to the development of our Ruggedized and Color Printer products. Failure to further develop these products and markets as anticipated could adversely affect our growth. 7 Table of Contents Astro-Med sells medical equipment to customers who rely on certain third party reimbursement rates. We cannot be certain that third party reimbursement rates and policies will continue in the future. Any change in reimbursement rates and policies could impact our business. Our investments in auction rate securities are subject to risks that may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. As of January 31, 2008, we held $6,250,000 of auction rate securities classified as short-term investments. With the liquidity issues experienced in global credit and capital markets, auctions of some of the auction rate securities that we hold failed subsequent to January 31, 2008. If the uncertainties in the credit and capital market continue, these markets deteriorate further or the various rating agencies downgrade any of the auction rate securities that we hold, we may be required to write-down the value of these investments. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 