ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risk factors that might impact the Company include, but are not limited to, the following: The Company’s commission revenues are based on premiums set by insurers and any decreases in these premium rates could result in revenue decreases for the Company. The Company is engaged in insurance agency and brokerage activities and derives revenues primarily from commissions on the sale of insurance products to clients that are paid by the insurance underwriters with whom the Company’s offices place clients’ insurance. These commissions are highly dependent on the premiums charged by insurance underwriters, which are subject to fluctuation based on the prevailing economic conditions and competitive 6 factors that affect insurance underwriters. Premiums historically have been cyclical in nature, varied by region and displayed a high degree of volatility based on the prevailing economic and competitive factors that affect insurance underwriters. These factors, which are not within the Company’s control, include the capacity of insurance underwriters to place new business, non-underwriting profits of insurance underwriters, consumer demand for insurance products, the availability of comparable products from other insurance underwriters at a lower cost, and the availability of alternative insurance products, such as government benefits and self-insurance plans, to consumers. The Company cannot predict the timing or extent of future changes in premiums and thus commissions. As a result, the Company cannot predict the effect that future premium rates will have on the Company’s operations. While increases in premium rates may result in revenue increases for the Company, decreases in premium rates may result in revenue decreases for the Company. These decreases may adversely affect the Company’s operations for the periods in which they occur. The level of contingent commissions is difficult to predict and any material decrease in the Company’s collection of them is likely to have an adverse impact on operating results. Contingent commissions are commissions paid by insurance underwriters based on profitability of the business, premium growth, total premium volume or some combination of these factors. The Company generally receives these contingent commissions in the first and second quarters of each year. Due to the nature of these commissions, it is difficult for the Company to predict their payment. Increases in loss ratios experienced by insurance underwriters will result in a decreased profit to them and may result in decreases in the payment of contingent commissions to the Company. Furthermore, the Company has no control over insurance underwriters’ abilities to estimate loss reserves, which affects the Company’s payment calculation. In addition, tightening of underwriting criteria by certain insurance underwriters, due in part to the high loss ratios, may result in a lower volume of business that the Company is able to place with them. Contingent commissions affect the Company’s revenues, and decreases in their payment to the Company may have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company has eliminated National Override Agreements commissions effective for business written on or after January 1, 2005, and it is uncertain whether additional contingent commissions payable to the Company will offset the loss of such revenues. Effective for business written on or after January 1, 2005, National Override Agreements reverted into standard local contingency arrangements with those respective underwriters on an office by office basis, which will be paid and recorded, if at all, annually beginning in early 2006. Due to the difficulty in predicting contingent commissions (as noted above), it is uncertain whether additional contingent commissions payable to the Company will offset the loss of such revenues. National Override Agreements are defined in Part I, Item 1—Business. The Company’s growth has been enhanced through acquisitions, but the Company may not be able to successfully identify and attract suitable acquisition candidates and complete acquisitions. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates that will permit the Company to expand into new or existing markets. The Company is unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition candidates will become available or the likelihood that any acquisition will be completed once negotiations have commenced. The Company competes for acquisition and expansion opportunities with entities that have substantially greater resources. The failure to acquire additional agencies at the same rate that the Company has in the past may adversely affect the expected growth in revenues. The Company’s failure to integrate an acquired insurance agency efficiently may have an adverse effect on the Company. The integration of an acquisition may involve a number of factors that may affect the Company’s operations. These factors include diversion of management’s attention, difficulties in the integration of acquired operations and retention of personnel, entry into unfamiliar markets, unanticipated problems or legal liabilities, and tax and accounting issues. Furthermore, once the Company has integrated an acquired insurance agency, the agency may not achieve levels of revenue, profitability, or productivity comparable to existing locations, or otherwise perform as expected. The failure to integrate one or more acquired agencies so that they achieve expected performance goals may have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. 7 The general level of economic activity can have a substantial impact on revenues that is difficult to predict. A strong economic period may not necessarily result in higher revenues. The volume of insurance business available to the Company’s agencies has historically been influenced by factors such as the health of the overall economy. The specific impact of the health of the economy on the Company’s revenues, however, can be difficult to predict. When the economy is strong, insurance coverages typically increase as payrolls, inventories and other insured risks increase. Insurance commissions to the Company’s agencies generally would be expected to increase. As discussed above, however, the Company’s commission revenues are dependent on premium rates charged by insurance underwriters, and these rates are subject to fluctuation based on prevailing economic and competitive conditions. As a result, the higher commission revenues the Company generally would expect to see in a strong economic period may not necessarily occur, as any increase in the volume of insurance business brought about by favorable economic conditions may be offset by premium rates that have declined in response to increased competitive conditions, among other factors. The Company’s success in the future depends, in part, on the Company’s ability to attract and retain quality producers. The Company believes that its success in the future depends, in part, on its ability to attract and retain quality producers. The competition for such personnel in the insurance intermediary industry is intense. The Company’s failure to recruit, retain, train and integrate quality producers may have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company may be subject to increasing costs arising from errors and omissions claims against the Company. Errors and omissions claims could include, for example, the failure of Company employees, whether negligently or intentionally, to place coverage correctly or notify carriers of claims on behalf of clients or to provide insurance carriers with complete and accurate information relating to the risks being insured. Errors and omissions claims against the Company may allege its potential liability for all or part of the amounts in question. It is not always possible to prevent and detect errors and omissions, and the precaution taken by the Company may not be effective in all cases. The Company is subject to governmental regulation which may impact operating results and/or growth. The Company is subject to governmental regulation which may adversely impact operating results and/or growth. The Company’s failure to comply with regulations may lead to disciplinary action. These actions may include the assessment of penalties and requiring clients to be compensated for loss. Also, changes in regulations and actions by regulators may require operational changes which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The business practices and broker compensation arrangements of the Company are subject to uncertainty due to investigations by governmental authorities and related private litigation. The business practices and broker compensation arrangements of the Company and the insurance intermediary industry are subject to uncertainty due to investigations by various governmental authorities and related private litigation. The departments of insurance of various states may adopt new regulations addressing contingent commission arrangements and disclosure of such arrangements with insureds. The Company intends to monitor agent and broker compensation practices and, as warranted by market and regulatory developments, will review its compensation arrangements with underwriters. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of the governmental inquiries and investigations into the insurance industry’s commission payment practices or the responses by the market and regulators, any material decrease in the Company’s contingent commissions is likely to have an adverse effect on its results of operations. The Company is subject to a number of investigations and legal proceedings, which if determined unfavorably for the Company, may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Costs incurred related to investigations, private litigation and class actions are uncertain and difficult to predict. In addition to routine litigation and disclosed investigations, the Company has been named as a defendant in one purported class action brought against a number of brokers in the insurance industry and one purported securities class action. The final outcome of these matters and similar matters, and related costs, cannot be determined. An unfavorable resolution to these matters could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. 8 A decline in the Company’s ability to obtain new financing and/or refinance current borrowings may adversely affect the Company. At December 31, 2006, the Company had $241.0 million of consolidated debt outstanding and $193.5 million available under its revolving credit facility for future borrowings. A decline in the Company’s ability to obtain new financing and/or refinance current borrowings may adversely affect the Company’s borrowing costs and financial flexibility. If the Company is unable to respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to rapid technological change in the insurance intermediary industry, there may be a resulting adverse effect on business and operating results. The insurance industry is increasingly influenced by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions and evolving industry standards. For example, the insurance intermediary industry has increased use of the internet to communicate benefits and related information to consumers and to facilitate information exchange and transactions. The Company believes that its future success will depend on its ability to continue to anticipate technological changes and to offer additional product and service opportunities that meet evolving standards on a timely and cost-effective basis. There is a risk that the Company may not successfully identify new product and service opportunities or develop and introduce these opportunities in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition, opportunities that the Company’s competitors develop or introduce may render the Company’s products and services noncompetitive. As a result, the Company can give no assurances that technological changes that may affect its industry in the future will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. Quarterly and annual variations in the Company’s commissions and fees that result from the timing of policy renewals and the net effect of new and lost business production may have unexpected impacts on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s commission and fee income, which typically accounts for more than 90% of total annual revenues, is subject to both quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of timing of policy renewals and the net effect of new and lost business production. The factors that cause these variations are not within the Company’s control. Specifically, consumer demand for insurance products can influence the timing of renewals, new business and lost business, which generally includes policies that are not renewed, and cancellations. The Company’s operating results could be adversely affected if the value of intangible assets is not fully realized. The Company’s total assets at December 31, 2006 reflect goodwill and other intangible assets (net) of approximately $637 million and $149 million, or 44% and 10% of total assets, respectively. There can be no assurance that such goodwill or intangible assets will be realizable. The Company evaluates, on a periodic basis, whether the carrying value of these assets may no longer be completely recoverable, in which case a charge to earnings for impairment losses could become necessary. Any event or change in circumstances leading to a future determination requiring additional write-offs of a significant portion of these assets could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s financial reporting could be impacted by unanticipated responses from the SEC regarding completion of its review of the Company. The Company is cooperating with the SEC to resolve open comments from the SEC’s review of the Company’s financial statements. In addition, the Company is prepared to address any questions from the SEC regarding the Company’s recent prior period restatement for an intangible asset impairment charge, primarily related to goodwill. Although the Company believes it has preliminarily resolved its open comments with the SEC, the Company’s financial reporting including reported results and disclosures could be impacted depending on the SEC’s final response to information provided by the Company. Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Among other things, these statements relate to the financial condition, results of operations and future business plans, operations, opportunities and prospects of the Company. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company’s actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any anticipated results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. 9 Forward-looking statements in Form 10-K or other filings by the Company with the SEC, in the Company’s press releases or other public or shareholder communications, or in oral statements made with the approval of an authorized Company executive officer include the words or phrases “would be,” “will allow,” “expects to,” “will continue,” “is anticipated,” “estimate,” “project” or similar expressions that are intended to identify “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. While forward-looking statements are provided to assist in the understanding of the Company’s anticipated future financial performance, the Company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Forward-looking statements are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. Although the Company believes that the assumptions underlying its forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove to be inaccurate. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by such forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons including the risk factors and uncertainties disclosed above. The Company does not undertake, and specifically disclaims any obligation, to update any forward-looking statements to reflect occurrences or unanticipated events or circumstances after the date of such statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 