Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is highly speculative and involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Report, before making an investment decision. If any of the circumstances described in these risk factors actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our shares could decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Company Because we are entering into new business lines that are unproven, it is difficult to predict if we will generate material revenues or be profitable. Until recently, our business has been substantially dependent upon Broadcaster’s ability to generate revenue from our Internet business. We recently discontinued our website business and are entering into two lines of business in which we have little experience. Because our new business model is unproven, we may not generate material revenues from such businesses. It is too early to predict whether consumers will accept, and continue to use on a regular basis, the products generated from these new business lines since we have had no recent operating history in our new business lines nor any revenues or earnings derived from such business lines. Therefore, our ability to generate revenue is uncertain and there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate any revenue or be profitable. Our business is difficult to evaluate because we are currently engaging in new lines of business and shifting the focus of our historical business lines for which we have no operating history and limited information. The Company is currently expanding its operations and engaging in new business lines as well as shifting the focus of its historical business lines. The Company recently engaged in an acquisition of a game development company and a telecommunications business in China There is a risk that we will be unable to successfully operate these new lines of business or be able to successfully integrate them with our current management and structure. Our estimates of capital, personnel and equipment required for our new lines of business are based on the experience of management and businesses they are familiar with. Our management has limited direct experience in our new lines of business. As a result of a change in our business model we have experienced, and may continue to experience, a significant loss in revenues and we may not be profitable. Our revenue from our discontinued operations was $891,000 for the year ended June 30, 2008 which declined from $6,913,000 for the year ended June 30, 2007. This decline is attributable to our change in our business model which led to the decision to discontinue our operations. Our net loss for the year ended June 30, 2008 was $84,949,000 as compared to $19,993,000 for the prior year. The increased loss is attributable to our change in our business model in 2007 from a subscription to an advertising model and the reduction of our operations in December 2007. In addition, we recognized $68,192,000 of impairment of goodwill as a result of the discontinuance of operations. We expect to incur additional expenses in connection with the establishment of our new business lines. In fact, we have agreed to make an additional investment of $2,500,000 in Eyecandy if certain conditions are met. We therefore expect to incur substantial operating losses for the foreseeable future. Our ability to become profitable depends on our ability to have successful operations. We may not be able to continue as a going concern. During the year ended June 30, 2008 we had minimal income from our now discontinued operations. The opinion of our independent registered accounting firm for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 is qualified subject to substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. See “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” and the notes to our Financial Statements. 9 We face substantial uncertainties in establishing our business. To date, our only material business activities have been in the website business. We have not generated any income from either of our new lines of business and during this past fiscal year have generated minimal revenue from our website business which is now discontinued. We believe that in order to establish a successful business we must, among other things, hire personnel to run our day to operations, develop a distribution network and establish a customer base. This may be difficult to accomplish in light of the negative publicity related to the reduction of our operations in December 2007 and eventual discontinuance of operations, the termination of employees at such time and the litigation that we have been involved with. If we are unable to accomplish one or more of these goals, our business may fail. Our planned expansion of sales into overseas markets could fail, reduce operating results and/or expose us to increased risks associated with different market dynamics and competition in any of the foreign countries where we attempt to sell our products. We may face many new obstacles in our planned expansion of product sales in overseas markets. These markets are untested for our products and we face risks in expanding our business overseas, which include differences in regulatory product testing requirements, patent protection, taxation policy, legal systems and rules, marketing costs, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in political and economic conditions. We may not be as successful as our competitors in generating revenues in international markets due to the lack of recognition of our products or other factors. Developing product recognition overseas is expensive and time-consuming and our international expansion efforts may be more costly and less profitable than we expect. If we are not successful in our target markets, our sales could decline, our margins could be negatively impacted and we could lose market share, any of which could materially harm our business, resu lts of operations and profitability. The recent reduction of our business and discontinuance of operations has negatively impacted our financial results and forced us to look into new lines of business, the selection of which has been and will continue to be at the discretion of the Board. On December 13, 2007 the Board decided, to reduce our operations and keep a limited staff to maintain our website until the end of the calendar year. We have since accounted for our website business as a discontinued operation. This negatively impacted our financial statements and resulted in a total charge of approximately $70 million for the year ended June 30, 2008 because of the impairment of goodwill and a write down of intangible assets acquired in the Access Media acquisition. For the quarters ended December 31, 2007, March 31, 2008 and June 30, 2008 there was a substantial decrease in revenue, and we will not generate any significant revenue from operations until such time as our new operations generate revenue. In order to operate profitably, we needed to find alternative lines of business to replace the website business that we have discontinued and successfully shift the focus of our historical business. The success of our plan of operation will depend to a great extent on the operations, financial condition and management of our game development and telecommunications business and the ability of our management to successfully integrate the acquired business with us. While we have recently acquired one company in the game development business and another in the telecommunications business in China, we cannot guarantee that such ventures will be successful. We continue to explore various other options with respect to our future operations. The decisions regarding the business in which to operate and the selection of the merger and acquisition candidates will be at the discretion of the Board and shareholders will be reliant upon the judgment of the Board in such selection. In connection with any future merger or acquisition, we may issue securities which will cause dilution to existing shareholders, such as occurred with the LampLighter and Eyecandy acquisitions. If the businesses that we have entered into are not successful, we will be forced to look for other suitable businesses. However, there can be no assurance that a candidate will be found in a timely manner or upon terms that are acceptable. Even if a candidate is found in a timely manner upon acceptable terms, there is no assurance that such merger or acquisition will have a positive effect on our results of operations. Our recent litigation has negatively impacted our financial position. Our recent litigation has resulted in substantial costs and diverted management’s attention from other business concerns. During the 2008 fiscal year, we spent $2,951,000 in legal fees, of which a substantial amount was attributed to our litigation costs. In addition our staff has devoted substantial time and effort to these matters. 10 Although management asserts that such claims have no merit, it still must defend against such actions. We believe that we are entitled to reimbursement of certain of the legal expenses from our insurance carrier, however, we have not yet received any insurance proceeds and have had to pay all such expenses out of pocket. We were required to write off significant goodwill from our balance sheet. At June 30, 2007, our balance sheet contained approximately $68.2 million of goodwill arising from the AccessMedia acquisition. During the quarter ended December 31, 2007, we were required to write off all of this goodwill, which was reflected as an impairment and resulted in additional net loss. If we fail to enhance our existing services and products or develop and introduce new features in a timely manner to meet changing customer requirements, our ability to grow our business will suffer. Our new lines of business, our telecommunications business and our game development business, are each dependent in part on rapidly changing technologies as was our Internet business. The widespread adoption of new Internet, networking, streaming media, or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require us to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our operating practices or infrastructure. Our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to: · identify and respond to emerging technological trends in the market; · develop technology that attracts and retains large numbers of unique users; · enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; · acquire and license leading technologies; · bring multimedia services and applications to market and scale our business on a timely basis at competitive prices; and · respond effectively to new technological changes or new product and services announcements by others. We will not be competitive unless we continually introduce new services and programs or enhancements to existing services and programs that meet evolving industry standards and user needs. If we are successful in making acquisitions, it could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. A large part of our business model centers around our ability to integrate newly acquired businesses and to continue making acquisitions, principally involving companies engaged in the entertainment business including the Internet businesses, telecommunications businesses or complementary businesses. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: · we face major competition in seeking acquisitions of companies; · difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products, and personnel of the acquired company; · diversion of management's attention from normal daily operations of the business; · potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development; · difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; · insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; and · the potential loss of key employees of any acquired company. 11 Acquisitions may also cause us to: · issue common stock that would dilute our current shareholders' percentage ownership as we have with our acquisition of LampLigher and Eyecandy; · use our limited resources; · assume liabilities, as was the case with our acquisition of LampLighter; · record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges; · incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; · incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses; and · become subject to intellectual property or other litigation. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business, operating results, or financial condition. If we are not able to retain our executive officers and key personnel, we may not be able to expand our business. Our ability to generate substantial revenues is dependent upon our retention of our management team and attracting, assimilating, and retaining other highly qualified employees, including information technology, marketing, sales and support personnel. Our Chief Executive Officer’s prior relationship with the Eyecandy management was integral in our ability to engage in business with them. The loss of services of him could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, and results of operations or financial condition. We do not maintain key person life insurance on the lives of our officers or key employees. There is substantial competition for highly skilled employees in our industry, and due to California law, our key employees are not bound by agreements preventing them from terminating their employment with us at any time and competing with us or working for competitors. In addition, it will b e difficult to enforce the terms of our employment agreements in foreign countries, such as China. If we fail to attract and retain key employees, our business could be harmed. If we are unsuccessful in expanding our business with our limited resources or attracting employee, we will be unable to achieve success. We currently have nine full time employees and several part time consultants. The success of our business in the future will depend on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate high quality personnel. Competition for talented personnel is intense, and we may not be able to continue to attract, train, retain or motivate other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future. Our ability to attract employees may be harmed by the recent termination of most of our prior employees in December 2007 in connection with the reduction of the operations of our web site business and our recent litigation, which has impacted our available cash. In addition, market conditions may require us to pay higher compensation to qualified management and technical personnel than we currently anticipate. Adding the necessary capacity to integrate our new business lines and manage our operations will be integral t o our success. If we are unable to expand our capacity successfully and on acceptable terms, we will be unable to support our new lines of business. Mr. Mills does not currently devote all of their time to our Company. Acting as our Chief Financial Officer is not the sole business activity of Mr. Mills. Mr. Mills has complete discretion to decide how much time he will devote to our business. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability. As a result of our recent acquisitions or if we are able to consummate acquisitions, we anticipate that we may incur material growth. Businesses which grow rapidly often have difficulty managing their growth. If our business grows as we anticipate, we will need to expand our management by recruiting and employing experienced executives and key employees capable of providing the necessary support. To manage the expected growth of our 12 operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial, and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. We cannot assure you that our management will be able to manage our growth effectively or successfully. Our failure to meet these challenges could cause us to lose money, and your investment could be lost. Our ability to attract employees may be harmed by the recent termination of most of our prior employees in December 2007 in connection with the reduction and eventual discontinuance of the operations of our web site business and our recent litigation, which has impacted our available cash. If we cannot effectively compete, our future results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. The markets in which we compete are intensely competitive, highly fragmented and characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving standards. Because some of our competitors have substantially greater resources, in order to compete effectively we may have to offer our products and services at prices which will not be profitable. The markets in which we operate are intensely competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving standards. This competition could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We also compete with other forms of entertainment and leisure activities, which pose a competitive threat if customers and potential customers spend less of their available time using interactive entertainment software and devote more time to other forms of entertainment. We rely to a substantial extent on the management, marketing, sales, technical and software graphic skills of a limited number of employees to formulate and implement our business plan. Our success depends to a significant extent upon our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for employees can be intense and the process of locating key personnel with the right combination of skills is often lengthy. The loss of services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we cannot address technological change in our industry in a timely fashion and develop new products and services, our future results of operations may be adversely affected. The telecommunications, game development and internet industries are characterized by: · rapidly changing technology; · evolving industry standards and practices that could render our products and proprietary technology obsolete; · changes in consumer tastes and user demands; · frequent introductions of new services or products that embody new technologies. Our future performance will depend, in part, on our ability to develop, license or acquire leading technologies, enhance our existing services and respond to technological advances and consumer tastes and emerging industry standards and practices on a timely and cost-effective basis. Developing proprietary technology involves significant technical and business risks. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully use new technologies or adapt our website and proprietary technology to emerging industry standards. We may not be able to remain competitive or sustain growth if we do not adapt to changing market conditions or customer requirements. If we are subject to intellectual property infringement claims, it could cause us to incur significant expenses, pay substantial damages and prevent service delivery. The license agreements that permit us to use the licensed technology contain only limited representations and warranties of the licensor and limited rights to indemnification for claims of infringement. Third parties may claim that our products or services infringe or violate their intellectual property rights. Any such claims could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages and prevent us from using licensed technology that may be fundamental to our business service delivery. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. We may also be 13 obligated to indemnify our business partners in any such litigation, which could further exhaust our resources. Furthermore, as a result of an intellectual property challenge, we may be prevented from providing some or all of our services unless we enter into royalty, license or other agreements. We may not be able to obtain such agreements at all or on terms acceptable to us, and as a result, we may be precluded from offering most or all of its products and services. In order to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we will be required to incur substantial expenses, and we may not be able to report that our internal controls are adequate. In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2008, our management will be required to provide an assessment as to the effectiveness of our internal controls. However, the auditor’s attestation report on internal control over financial reporting will not be required to be filed until we file our annual report for the fiscal year ending after December 31, 2009. The assessment process required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 is new for small business issuers like Broadcaster and our financial and other management have no experience in testing or complying with these requirements. Accordingly, we may encounter problems or delays in completing our obligations. We expect that in order to do so we have to spend money on software, hire a consulting firm to assist us and devote substantial management time. Larger companies have incurred substantial expenses and time in complying with Section 404, although th ey did so under a more rigorous accounting standard and were required to also have an audit of their internal controls. We cannot assure you we will be able to report that our internal controls are adequate. Because our stock price may be volatile due to factors beyond our control, you may lose all or part of your investment. Our operating results have been in the past, and in the future are likely to be, subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, including: · our failure to generate increases in revenues, · our failure to achieve or maintain profitability, · actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations, · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new products, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments, · the loss of significant business relationships, · changes in market valuations of similar companies, · future acquisitions and the ability to integrate new businesses, · compliance expenses including the costs required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the cost of remediation, if any, or In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s time and attention, which would otherwise be used to benefit our business. If we are required to raise capital in the future in order to meet the requirements of our business, such capital may be available, if at all, on unfavorable terms and may be very dilutive to our existing shareholders. Due to our recent shut down of our business in addition to increased expenses, primarily expenses in connection with our recent litigation, we may require additional capital to meet our needs. We may also need capital to complete acquisitions. Our ability to raise future equity or debt capital will be dependent upon future market conditions as well as our results of operations. Such capital may be available, if at all, on very unfavorable terms and may be extremely dilutive to existing shareholders. Accordingly, this may cause our future stock price to fall. 14 Because our common stock is not listed on a stock exchange, investors may be unable to resell their shares at publicly quoted prices. Our common stock is quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board or OTCBB, which is less liquid than the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange or The Nasdaq Stock Market. This may hinder your ability to sell your common stock and result in you receiving a lower price than the quoted price when you sell your shares. Accordingly, investors may lose money due to this lack of liquidity. Because the ownership of our common stock is highly concentrated, it will prevent you and other shareholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and will allow a few significant shareholders to control the direction of our business. As of October 10, 2008, Mr. Wade currently controls the right to vote 15,038,333 shares which represents approximately 24.68% of our outstanding shares and he also has the right to make decisions with respect to the disposition of 10, 038,333 shares of our common stock. Mr. Nolan Quan, as the managing member of certain limited liability companies, has the right to vote 12,650,000 shares, most of which he has agreed to return to us under certain conditions. See Item 3-Legal Proceedings. Mr. Quan has granted Mr. Wade the right to vote certain shares of our common stock owned by him as well as an option to purchase those shares, which shares are included in the 15,038,333. The prior shareholders of Eyecandy have granted Mr. Wade the right to vote 5,000,000 shares owned by them, which shares are included in the 15,038,333. Accordingly, Mr. Wade individually and to a greater extent if acting with Mr. Quan has the ability to influence al l matters which come before our shareholders including amendments to our certificate of incorporation, mergers and the sale of assets. This control may impede a further change in control of Broadcaster, which may reduce the market price of our common stock. The interests of our existing shareholders may conflict with interests of Messrs. Quan and Wade. Because securities analysts may not initiate coverage on our common stock, this may have a negative impact on its market price. The depth of the trading market for our common stock will depend on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about us and our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. There is no guarantee that securities analysts will cover our common stock. If securities analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect our market price. If we are covered by securities analysts, and our stock is downgraded, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover us or fails to publish regular reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Risks Related to Our Internet Business If we are unable to expand the number of users to our website and generate sufficient revenues from Internet advertising when and if we attempt to rebuild that portion of our business, your investment may be jeopardized. We may, if we deem it advisable, rebuild our internet business, In order to operate our website profitably, we must attract sufficient users, including users who regularly visit our website. Advertisers reply upon various metrics, including the number of unique visitors, the number of unique page views, and the number of repeat visitors. These metrics help advertisers determine whether or not to advertise on our website and the price which we will receive from them. If we unable to attract sufficient users, we will not generate sufficient revenues and your investment may be jeopardized. In the past we placed advertisements with third parties to attract users to our website, which was very costly. However, we no longer rely on this method for attracting users. Our ability to attract new users has been impaired, and caused a reduction in the revenues derived from our Internet business during the past fiscal year. In order to successfully operate our business we will need to find new ways to attract users. Because there is a growing trend for persons to access the Internet through devices such as PDAs and cell phones, our Social Video Network may not gain widespread adoption by users of such devices. In the United States, there are an increasing number of people who regularly access the Internet through PDAs, including BlackBerries and Treos, and cell phones rather than a personal computer. Our Social Video Network has been designed for rich graphical environments such as those available on desktop and laptop computers. The lower resolution, functionality and memory associated with alternative devices may make the use of 15 our services through such devices difficult. As we have limited experience to date in operating versions of our service developed or optimized for users of alternative devices, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in doing so, and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support and maintenance of such versions. If we are unable to attract and retain a substantial number of alternative device users to our online services, we may have difficulty rebuilding our Internet business because we may fail to capture a sufficient share of an increasingly important portion of the market for user-generated video. We cannot assure you that persons who regularly access the Internet through PDAs and cell phones will be attracted to our Social Video Network because: · The small screens may make it impractical to use our Social Video Network; · The lower resolution functionality and memory associated with these alternative devices may make the use of our services through such devices difficult; and · Webcams have not been, to date, included on PDAs and cell phones, and adding webcams might be awkward given the size of these devices. If we encounter system failures, it could damage our reputation and harm our Internet business. Continuous and uninterrupted performance of our systems is and will be critical to the success of our Internet business. We must protect these systems against damage from fire, power loss, water damage, earthquakes, telecommunications failures, viruses, vandalism and other malicious acts, and similar unexpected adverse events. Our Internet operations depend upon our ability to maintain and protect our computer systems, data centers and server locations. Our corporate headquarters and primary operations are located in Southern California. Southern California is an area susceptible to earthquakes and possible power outages. We cannot eliminate the risk of downtime caused by factors such as natural disasters and other events. Further, individuals may attempt to breach our network security, such as hackers, which could damage our network. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Because of improper conduct by users of our website, we could be subject to claims and compliance costs. We are subject to laws and regulations directly applicable to providers of Internet services both domestically and internationally. The application of existing domestic and international laws and regulations relating to issues such as user privacy and data protection, and intellectual property ownership and infringement in many instances is unclear or unsettled. In addition, we will also be subject to any new laws and regulations directly applicable to our Internet activities. Internationally, we may also be subject to domestic laws regulating our activities in foreign countries and to foreign laws and regulations that are inconsistent from country to country. We may incur substantial liabilities for expenses necessary to comply with these laws and regulations or penalties for any failure to comply. Compliance with these laws and regulations may also cause us to change or limit our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. A number of United States federal laws, including those referenced below, impact our business. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act (“DMCA”) is intended, in part, to limit the liability of eligible online service providers for listing or linking to third-party websites that include materials that infringe copyrights or other rights of others. Portions of the Communications Decency Act (“CDA”) are intended to provide statutory protections to online service providers who distribute third party content. We rely on the protections provided by both the DMCA and CDA in conducting our business. Any changes in these laws or judicial interpretations narrowing their protections will subject us to greater risk of liability and may increase our costs of compliance with these regulations or limit our ability to operate certain lines of business. The Children’s Online Protection Act and t he Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act are intended to restrict the distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect user information from minors. In addition, the Protection of Children From Sexual Predators Act of 1998 requires online service providers to report evidence of violations of federal child pornography laws under certain circumstances. The costs of compliance with these regulations may increase in the future as a result of changes in the regulations or the interpretation of them. Further, any failures on our part to comply with these regulations may subject us to significant liabilities. 16 Risks Related To Our Graphic Art Business The Video Game Industry May Not Accept the Outsourced Production Model The video game industry relies to a large degree on in-house staff for art production. While many industries have adopted outsourcing widely, there can be no guarantee that video game production companies will choose to outsource production of their art assets. LampLighter’s business model relies almost entirely on the video game industry, so if LampLighter’s model is not adopted the company’s financial results and prospects will be significantly impacted. Barriers to Entry in the Outsourced Art Production Sector are Low LampLighter has spent significant time since inception developing its business strategy and the specific relationships and workflow tools that permit it to provide services on a timely and cost-effective basis. While we believe that this provides the company a significant competitive advantage over other businesses seeking to replicate the company’s model, there can be no assurance that companies with larger budgets and/or established relationships will not be able to recreate the company’s model in less time. LampLighter Relies Heavily on the Involvement of Key Personnel. LampLighter’s management team consists of people with extensive knowledge of and relationships in the gaming and outsourcing industries and in the LampLighter’s largest artist market, consisting of China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. LampLighter believes that these relationships will assist it in building out its development platform and selling its services to game publishers. If one or more of the members of this team could not provide such services, LampLighter cannot be sure that it would be able to continue development and realize the goals set forth in its business plan. LampLighter May be Unable to Locate and Retain High-Quality Offshore Developers The international market for video game artists is extremely competitive. LampLighter may be unable to attract and retain talent on both fronts at the projected rates resulting in a compromise in revenue projections. LampLighter’s Business is Subject to Economic, Political and other Risks Associated with International Operations Since LampLighter’s developers are located in several countries, its business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Accordingly, LampLighter’s future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including i) changes in foreign currency exchange rates; ii) changes in the political or economic conditions in the countries where it does business; iii) trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; iv) difficulty in managing widespread manufacturing operations; and v) less effective protection of intellectual property. Our financial performance will suffer if we do not meet our game development schedules. We expect that many of the games for which LampLighter develops graphics will be developed and published in connection with the releases of related movie titles and other significant marketing events, or more generally in connection with higher sales periods, including our second quarter ending December 31. As such, LampLighter will establish game development schedules tied to these periods. If LampLighter misses these schedules, we will not derive the maximum expected revenue from sales of the related games. The content of the games for which we provide graphics may become subject to increasing regulation and such regulation may limit the markets for our games. Legislation is periodically introduced at the local, state and federal levels in the United States and in foreign countries that is intended to restrict the content and distribution of games similar to the ones that we develop and produce, and could prohibit certain games similar to those that our graphics are developed for from being sold to minors. Additionally, many foreign countries have laws that permit governmental entities to censor the content and advertising of interactive entertainment software. 17 We believe that similar legislation will be proposed in many countries that are significant markets for our games, including the United States. If any of this proposed legislation is passed, it could have the effect of limiting the market for our games for which our graphics are developed and our products. We must continue to develop new products in order to generate revenue and remain profitable. LampLighter derives almost all of its revenue from sales of interactive software games designed for play on video game consoles, handheld devices, mobile phones and personal computers. Even the most successful games remain popular for only limited periods of time, often less than six months, and thus the success of our business is dependent upon our ability to continually develop graphics for new games that are successful. Our business is "hit" driven. If the games for which we develop graphics are not "hit" games, our future revenue and profitability can suffer. While many new products are regularly introduced, only a relatively small number of "hit" titles account for a significant portion of video game sales. If the games for which we produce graphics fail to develop "hit" titles, or if "hit" products published by our competitors take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, our royalties will fall below our expectations and we may lose future customers. Our business is dependent upon the success and availability of the video game platforms on which consumers play our games. LampLighter derives a substantial portion of its revenue from the sale of products for play on video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as Sony's PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3 and PSP, Microsoft's Xbox 360, and Nintendo's Wii and DSa and mobile phones. Our business will suffer if the third parties do not manufacture and sell an adequate number of platforms to meet consumer demand or if the installed base of the platforms is insufficient. Increasing development costs can decrease our profitability. Video games are becoming increasingly expensive to develop. Because the current generation console platforms and computers have greater complexity and capabilities than the earlier platforms and computers, costs are higher to develop games for the current generation platforms and computers. Greater costs can lead to lower operating margins, negatively affecting our profitability. Defects in our game software could harm our reputation or decrease the market acceptance of our products. Our products may contain defects. It is possible that we may not discover defects until after our products are in use by retail customers. Any defects in our software could damage our reputation, cause our customers to terminate relationships with us or to initiate product liability suits against us, divert our engineering resources, delay market acceptance of our products, increase our costs or cause our revenue to decline. We rely on external developers for the development of the finished products. We only provide the graphics for games. The balance of the game is developed by third-party developers. We have no direct control over the business, finances and operational practices of these external developers. A delay or failure to complete the work performed by external developers may result in delays in, or cancellations of, product releases. Additionally, the future success of externally-developed titles will depend on our continued ability to maintain relationships and secure agreements on favorable terms with skilled external developers. Our competitors may acquire the businesses of key developers or sign them to exclusive development arrangements. In either case, such developers would not be able to continue to engage our services, except for those that they are contractually obligated to complete for us. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to establish or maintain such relationships with external deve lopers and failure to do so could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. There is no guarantee that consumers will continue to pay software prices. Software prices for the current generation console games are higher than prices for games for the predecessor platforms. There is no assurance that consumers will continue to pay the higher prices of these games. 18 We rely on a small number of customers that account for a significant amount of our sales. Our game business is substantially dependent upon a few large customers due to our limited resources and the fact that the graphics for each game takes considerable time to develop, thus limiting us to working on a few select projects each year. A substantial reduction, termination of purchases, or business failure by any of our largest customers could have a material adverse effect on us. Emerging video game platforms, such as MMO games or games for wireless devices, require investments and present many risks. Globally, MMO games have rapidly become a popular way to play video games. Additionally, wireless network and mobile phone technologies are continually undergoing rapid innovation. New mobile phones with more advanced processors and supporting advanced programming languages continue to be introduced in the market. We have no control over the demand for, or success of, these products. However, if we fail to anticipate and adapt to these and other technological changes, our market share and our operating results may suffer. Our future success in providing online games, wireless games and other content will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, develop applications to accommodate evolving industry standards and improve the performance and reliability of our applications. The interactive entertainment industry is highly competitive and our competitors may succeed in narrowing our market share and reducing our sales. Globally, at least 140 companies produce video game art in outsourced capacity. Competition in the North American market can be broken down into five categories: small overseas, large overseas, small domestic, large domestic and domestic hybrid. We also encounter competition from publishers of PC and video game console interactive entertainment software and peripherals who have internal staff’s that produce graphics. Since many manufacturers publish games for their own platform, a manufacturer may give priority to its own products or those of other publishers. Unanticipated delays in the delivery of products due to delayed manufacturing could also negatively affect our operating results. Those competitors vary in size from small companies with limited resources to very large corporations with significantly greater financial, marketing, and product development resources than we have. For example, integrated video game console hardware and software companies such as Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft compete directly with us in the development of graphics for respective platforms. Certain of these competitors may spend more money and time on developing and testing products, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns and adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we do. Competition in the game development industry and the entertainment industry is intense. The games that we help develop compete for consumer dollars with several other video game and mobile phone publishers and consumers must make choices among available games. If the games we help develop are available for sale at the same time as many other new games become available, consumers may choose to spend their money on products published by our competitors rather than the products that include our graphics. Our business is subject to risks generally associated with the entertainment industry, any of which could significantly harm our operating results. Our business is subject to risks that are generally associated with the entertainment industry, including the popularity, price and timing of the release of our games and the platforms on which they are played; economic conditions that adversely affect discretionary consumer spending; changes in consumer demographics; the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment; and critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, which may change rapidly and cannot necessarily be predicted. Many of these risks are beyond our control. These risks could negatively impact our business and financial results. Our products may be subject to legal claims. In prior fiscal years, at least two lawsuits have been filed against numerous video game companies, by the families of victims who were shot and killed by teenage gunmen in attacks perpetrated at schools. These lawsuits alleged that the video game companies manufactured and/or supplied these teenagers with violent video games, teaching them how to use a gun and causing them to act out in a violent manner. These lawsuits have been 19 dismissed. Similar additional lawsuits may be filed in the future. It is uncertain whether our insurance carrier would cover all or any amounts for which we might be liable if such future lawsuits are not decided in our favor. If such future lawsuits are filed and ultimately decided against us and our insurance carrier does not cover the amounts for which we may be liable, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Payment of significant claims by insurance carriers may make such insurance coverage materially more expensive or unavailable in the future, thereby exposing us to additional risk. Risks Relating to Our Mobile Business Extensive government regulation may limit our flexibility to respond to market conditions, competition or changes in our cost structure. Our telecommunications business is subject to extensive government regulation. The Ministry of Industry and Information of the PRC, which was created in March 2008 to assume, among other things, the functions of the former Ministry of Information Industry, regulates, among other things, the following areas of the telecommunications industry under the leadership of the State Council of the PRC: · formulating and enforcing industry policy, standards and regulations; · granting telecommunications licenses and permits; · formulating interconnection and settlement standards for implementation between telecommunications networks; · together with other relevant regulatory authorities, formulating tariff and service charge standards for certain telecommunications services; · supervising the operations of telecommunications services providers; · promoting fair and orderly market competition among operators; and · allocating and administering public telecommunications resources, such as radio frequencies, numbering resources, domain names and addresses of telecommunications networks. Other PRC government authorities also take part in regulating the telecommunications industry in the areas such as tariff policies and foreign investment. The regulatory framework within which we operate may limit our flexibility to respond to market conditions, competition or changes in our cost structure. Moreover, we cannot predict when or if changes in tariff policies or rates may occur. Future adverse changes in tariff policies and rates could decrease our revenues and reduce our profitability. Although Eyecandy Media has the license necessary to operate its business, if approvals or licenses are revoked or suspended, or if the conditions or other obligations relating to these approvals or licenses are amended in any material adverse respect, our business and operations will be materially and adversely affected. We may be affected by the enactment of a new telecommunications law and the promulgation of new telecommunications regulations. To provide a uniform regulatory framework for the orderly development of the telecommunications industry, the Ministry of Industry and Information, under the direction of the State Council, has been preparing a draft telecommunications law. According to the 2008 legislation agenda of the National People’s Congress, the draft telecommunications law is scheduled for review. Although we expect that the telecommunications law will positively affect the overall development of the telecommunications industry in Mainland China, we do not fully know what the nature and scope of the telecommunications law will be. The telecommunications law and other new telecommunications regulations or rules may contain provisions that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 We anticipate that we will be substantially dependent upon China Mobile for the major portion of our telecommunications revenue, and any loss or deterioration of our relationship with China Mobile may result in severe disruptions to our business operations and the loss of a major portion of our revenue. We plan to offer our services over mobile networks to consumers through China Mobile Communications Corporation, or China Mobile, who services a large portion of China’s mobile phone subscribers. If China Mobile were to cease to continue to cooperate with us, there will be only two other replacement telecom operators with the requisite licenses and permits, infrastructure and customer base to offer our wireless value-added services; however, we believe that the customer base of the other two telecom operators is smaller than that of China Mobile. We will have little leverage over the terms of our arrangements with the telecom operators. Given the dominant market position of China Mobile, our leverage with China Mobile and any other telecom operators will be limited in terms of negotiating agreements, resolving disputes or otherwise. Fees for our services will be charged on a monthly subscription or per-use basis. In addition, we anticipate paying service or network fees, over which we will have little leverage, which may increase in some cases if we fail to meet certain customer usage, revenues and other performance criteria. Any increase in China Mobile’s service or network fees could reduce our gross margins. Unilateral changes in the policies of China Mobile and in their enforcement of their policies could result in service suspensions or us having to pay additional charges to the telecom operators, and further changes could materially and adversely impact our revenue and profitability in the future. China Mobile has a wide range of policies and procedures regarding customer service, quality control and other aspects of the value added services industry. As the industry has evolved over the last several years, the telecom operators have refined these policies to improve overall service quality and increase customer satisfaction. For example, in July 2006, China Mobile introduced new policies which require extended free trial periods for value added services. In addition, in the last several years, acting under the guidance of the Ministry of Industry, the telecom operators have begun enforcing their customer service policies more rigorously than in the past and have initiated steps to improve customer service. This rigorous enforcement could result in the imposition of penalties. If we are not able to respond adequately to developments in mobile operator policies, or changes in the manner in which such policies are enforced we could be subject to penalties. Furthermore, because the telecom operators’ policies are in a state of flux at this time and they are highly sensitive to customer complaints (even if the complaints have no merit), we cannot be certain that our business activities will always be deemed in compliance with those policies despite our efforts to so comply. Accordingly, we may be subject to monetary penalties or service suspensions or both, even for conduct which we believed to be permissible. Any future noncompliance with the telecom operators’ policies by us, whether inadvertent or not, could result in a material and adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. We will rely on China Mobile to maintain accurate records of fees paid by users of our services, deduct service and network fees due to them and pay us fees due to us. Errors in record-keeping by the telecom operators could adversely affect our profitability and the market price of our stock. We will have to rely on China Mobile to maintain accurate records of the fees paid by users and deduct the service and network fees due to them. In addition, we will have only limited means to independently verify the information provided to us with respect to such services because will not have access to the telecom operators’ internal records. Rather, we will only be able to seek consultations with the telecom operators to discuss the reasons for any discrepancies. Because of the dominant market position of these telecom operators, we will have limited leverage in challenging any discrepancies between their monthly statements, on the one hand, and our own records, on the other hand. Our profitability and the market price of our products could be adversely affected if these telecom operators miscalculate the revenues generated from our services and our portion of those revenues. Moreover, it is possible that, if information provided to us by the telecom operators were not correct or complete, our public reports could also be deficient, which could adversely affect the market price of our stock. 21 The services we offer and the prices we charge will be subject to approval by China Mobile, and if requested approvals are not granted in a timely manner or approved services are suspended or terminated, our competitive position, revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. We will be required to obtain approval from China Mobile with respect to each service that we propose to offer to their customers and the pricing for such service. In addition, any changes in the pricing of our existing services must be approved in advance by these operators. There can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted in a timely manner or at all. Failure to obtain, or a delay in, obtaining such approvals could place us at a competitive disadvantage in the market and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. In addition, the recent more rigorous enforcement of customer service policies by China Mobile could result in heightened scrutiny of our existing or proposed services and pricing by the telecom operators. This could, in turn, result in delays in their approving new services, our failure to obtain approval for new services or suspensions or termination of all or part of our existing services or reductions in a pproved pricing of our services. The occurrence of any of these actions could materially and adversely affect our revenues. Competition from other telecommunications services providers, including those emerging from the proposed restructuring of the telecommunications industry in Mainland China, may further intensify, and we cannot assure you that any potential change in the competitive landscape of the telecommunications industry in Mainland China would not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We compete with other telecommunications value added services providers in the provinces, autonomous regions and directly-administered municipalities in Mainland China and the entities for which we provide services compete with the other mobile phone providers for customers. The PRC government encourages orderly competition in the telecommunications industry in Mainland China. In particular, the PRC government has extended favorable regulatory policies to some providers, such as China United Telecommunications Corporation, or China Unicom, in order to help them become more viable competitors. For example, the PRC government has permitted China Unicom to lower its mobile telecommunications services tariffs by up to 10% below the government standard rates. We believe this policy has helped China Unicom capture a significant number of price-sensitive mobile telecommunications services subscribers which may impact the sale of our products. In May 2008, in order to optimize the allocation of telecommunications resources in the PRC and improve the competitive landscape, the Ministry of Industry and Information, the National Development and Reform Commission and the Ministry of Finance jointly announced a policy initiative to further reform the PRC telecommunications industry by encouraging the formation of three telecommunications services providers of comparable scale and standing, each with nationwide network resources, full-service capabilities and competitive strength, by way of a series of restructuring transactions. The PRC government’s policy initiative to further reform the telecommunications industry is expected to have a significant impact on the competitive landscape of the telecommunications industry in Mainland China, and competition from other telecommunications services providers may intensify. While we are currently assessing the impact that the policy initiati ve announced in May 2008 may have on us, we cannot assure you that any potential change in the competitive landscape of the telecommunications industry in Mainland China would not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In October 2008, the Chinese government ordered its three domestic telecom operators to share and co-build infrastructures to avoid repeat construction. This may have the effect of eroding the competitive edge of China Mobile with whom we anticipate doing business and thus impact our revenue. The limited frequency spectrum allocated to us may constrain our future network capacity growth. A mobile telecommunications network’s capacity is to a certain extent limited by the amount of frequency spectrum available for its use. Since the Ministry of Industry and Information controls the allocation of frequency spectrum to mobile telecommunications operators in Mainland China, the capacity of our services is limited by the amount of spectrum that the Ministry of Industry and Information allocates to the entities to whom we provide services. Changes in technology may render our current technologies obsolete and thus affect our business and market position. The telecommunications industry is characterized by rapidly changing and increasingly complex technologies. Accordingly, although we strive to keep our technologies up to international standards, the mobile telecommunications technologies that we currently employ may become obsolete or subject to competition from 22 new technologies in the future, including new wireless telecommunications technologies. In addition, the development and application of new technologies involves time, substantial costs and risks. We may encounter unexpected technological difficulties in implementing new technologies, and as a result may incur substantial costs or service disruptions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the new technologies we may implement, may not generate an acceptable or commercially viable rate of return. Failure to capitalize on new business opportunities may have a material adverse effect on our growth potential. We intend to pursue new growth opportunities in the broader telecommunications industry. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to offer services that address the market demand arising from these opportunities. In addition, our ability to deploy and deliver these services depends, in many instances, on new and unproven technologies. Our wireless telecommunications technologies may not perform as expected. We may not be able to successfully develop or obtain new technologies to effectively and economically deliver these services. Furthermore, we may not be able to compete successfully in the delivery of telecommunications services based on new technologies. Moreover, we may pursue acquisitions from time to time, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in pursuing such acquisitions or will otherwise be able to successfully integrate any acquired companies or assets into our existing operations. Any failure to capitalize on new business opportunities may have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and future profitability. Actual or perceived health risks associated with the use of mobile devices could impair our ability to retain and attract customers, reduce wireless telecommunications usage or result in litigation. There has been public speculation about possible health risks to individuals from exposure to electromagnetic fields from base stations and from the use of wireless telephone handsets. While a substantial amount of scientific research conducted to date by various independent research bodies has shown that radio signals, at levels within the limits prescribed by public health authority safety standards and recommendations, present no adverse effect to human health, we cannot be certain that future studies, irrespective of their relative reliability or trustworthiness, will not impute a link between electromagnetic fields and adverse health effects. Research into these issues is ongoing by government agencies, international health organizations and other scientific bodies in order to develop a better scientific understanding and public awareness of these issues. In addition, several wireless industry participants were the targets of lawsuits alle ging various health consequences as a result of wireless phone usage or seeking protective measures. While we are not aware of any scientific studies or objective evidence which substantiates such alleged health risks, we cannot assure you that the actual, or perceived, risks associated with radio wave transmission will not impair our ability to retain customers and attract new customers, reduce wireless telecommunications usage or result in litigation. China’s accession into the World Trade Organization has gradually eased, and may continue to ease, restrictions on foreign ownership in the telecommunications industry and may increase competition in the mobile telecommunications services sector. On December 11, 2001, China officially joined the World Trade Organization, or the WTO. On January 1, 2002, the Administration of Foreign-Funded Telecommunications Enterprises Provisions was also adopted, thereby implementing China’s commitments to the WTO. Those commitments included the gradual reduction of foreign ownership restrictions in the telecommunications industry and the opening of the telecommunications market in Mainland China to foreign investors. Starting from December 11, 2006, foreign investors were permitted to own up to 49% of joint ventures that offer mobile voice and data services without any geographic restrictions. In September 2008, the State Council amended the provisions related to foreign funded telecom enterprises and relaxed the established minimum investment levels to fund joint ventures. This could lead to increased foreign investment in the telecommunications market in Mainland China, which may in turn increase competition and foreign participation in the mobile telecommunications services sector in Mainland China. Increased competition and foreign participation may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations as well as our business and prospects. An economic slowdown in Mainland China, as well as any unfavorable change in the economic policies of the PRC government, may reduce the demand for our services and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. We will conduct most of our telecommunications business and expect to generate substantially all our telecommunications revenues in Mainland China. As a result, economic, political and legal developments in 23 Mainland China have a significant effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In recent years, Mainland China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of GDP growth. However, such growth may not be sustained in the future. Moreover, the slowdown in other major economies of the world, such as the United States, the European Union and certain Asian countries may adversely affect economic growth in Mainland China. Our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our prospects, could be materially and adversely affected by an economic downturn in Mainland China. Since the late 1970s, the PRC government has been reforming the Chinese economic system. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth and social progress. Although we believe that economic reform and macroeconomic policies and measures adopted by the PRC government may continue to have a positive effect on the economic development of Mainland China and that we may continue to benefit from such policies and measures, these policies and measures may from time to time be modified or revised. Adverse changes in economic and social conditions in Mainland China, in the policies of the PRC government or in the laws and regulations in Mainland China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of Mainland China and investment in the telecommunications industry in Mainland China. In particular, China has experienced a period of high inflation since August 2007, which has prompted and may continue to prompt the PRC go vernment to implement austerity measures in an effort to slow down the economy. For example, the PRC government has raised interest rates and banks’ required reserve ratio a number of times since 2007, and the continuation of these and other measures to slow down inflation and economic growth may reduce demand for our services, which could materially and adversely affect our business, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 