Risk Factors". 7 MARKETING AND SALES Our marketing program has been directed toward establishing and maintaining relationships with businesses that have ongoing needs for one or more of our services. We have strived to achieve internal growth by expanding services to our existing customer base and by marketing ourselves as a multiple-service company with immediate response capabilities. Clients who begin by utilizing one service often use our other services. We believe that, ultimately, we will be able to service all of a client's environmental related construction and emergency response needs. Our services are principally marketed, to the extent practicable, in the Northeastern and Southern United States. We obtain business through client referral, cross selling of services to existing clients, sponsorship of training and development programs, professional referrals from insurance companies, architect/engineering firms and construction management firms for whom we have provided services, competitive bidding, and advertising. In all of our marketing efforts, including competitive bidding, we emphasize our experience, industry knowledge, safety record and reputation for timely performance of contracts. GOVERNMENT REGULATION Our operations are subject to extensive regulation supervision and licensing by the Environmental Protection Agency and various other federal, state, and local environmental authorities. These regulations directly impact the demand for the services we offer. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all federal, state, and local regulations governing its business. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act is the principal federal statue governing hazardous waste generation, treatment, storage, and disposal. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or the Environmental Protection Agency approved state programs, govern any waste handling activities of substances classified as "hazardous." Moreover, facilities that treat, store or dispose of hazardous waste must obtain a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act permit from the Environmental Protection Agency, or equivalent state agency, and must comply with certain operating, financial responsibility, and site closure requirements. Wastes are generally hazardous if they (1) either (a) are specifically included on a list of hazardous waste, or (b) exhibit certain characteristics defined as hazardous, and (2) are not specifically designated as non-hazardous. In 1984, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act was amended to substantially expand its scope by, among other things, providing for the listing of additional wastes as "hazardous" and also for the regulation of hazardous wastes generated in lower quantities than had been previously regulated. The amendments imposed additional restrictions on land disposal of certain hazardous wastes, prescribe more stringent standards for hazardous waste and underground storage tanks, and provided for "corrective" action at or near sites of waste management units. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, liability and stringent operating requirements may be imposed on a person who is either a "generator" or a "transporter" of hazardous waste, or an "owner" or "operator" of a waste treatment, storage, or disposal facility. Underground storage tank legislation, in particular Subtitle I of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, focuses on the regulation of underground storage tanks in which liquid petroleum or hazardous substances are stored and provides the regulatory setting for a portion of our business. Subtitle I of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act requires owners of all existing underground tanks to list the age, size, type, location, and use of each tank with a designated state agency. The Environmental Protection Agency has published performance standards and financial responsibility requirements for storage tanks over a five-year period. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Environmental Protection Agency regulations also require that all new tanks be installed in such a manner as to have protection against spills, overflows, and corrosion. Subtitle I of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act provides civil penalties of up to $27,500 per violation for each day of non-compliance with such tank requirements and $11,000 for each tank for which notification was not given or was falsified. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act also imposes substantial monitoring obligations on parties that generate, transport, treat, store, or dispose of hazardous waste. 8 The Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, authorizes the Environmental Protection Agency to identify and clean-up sites where hazardous waste treatment, storage, or disposal took place. The Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act also authorizes the Environmental Protection Agency to recover the costs of such activities, as well as damages to natural resources, from certain classes of persons specified as liable under the statute. Liability under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act does not depend upon the existence or disposal of "hazardous waste" as defined by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, but can be based on the existence of any number of 700 "hazardous substances" listed by the Environmental Protection Agency, many of which can be found in household waste. The Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act assigns joint and several liability for cost of clean-up and damages to natural resources to any person who, currently or at the time of disposal of a hazardous substance, by contract, agreement, or otherwise, arranged for disposal or treatment, or arranged with a transporter for transport of hazardous substances owned or possessed by such person for disposal or treatment, and to any person who accepts hazardous substances for transport to disposal or treatment facilities or sites from which there is a release or threatened release of such hazardous substances. Among other things, the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act authorizes the federal government either to clean up these sites itself or to order persons responsible for the situation to do so. The Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act created a fund, financed primarily from taxes on oil and certain chemicals, to be used by the federal government to pay for these clean-up efforts. Where the federal government expends money for remedial activities, it may seek reimbursement from the potentially responsible parties. Many states have adopted their own statutes and regulations to govern investigation and clean up of, and liability for, sites contaminated with hazardous substances. In October 1986, the Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act was enacted. The Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act increased environmental remediation activities significantly. The Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act imposed more stringent clean-up standards and accelerated timetables. The Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act also contains provisions which expanded the Environmental Protection Agency's enforcement powers and which encourage and facilitate settlements with potentially responsible parties. We believe that, even apart from funding authorized by the Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act, industry and governmental entities will continue to try to resolve hazardous waste problems due to their need to comply with other statutory and regulatory requirements and to avoid liabilities to private parties. The liabilities provided by the Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act could, under certain circumstances, apply to a broad range of our possible activities, including the generation or transportation of hazardous substances, release of hazardous substances, designing a clean-up, removal or remedial plan and failure to achieve required clean-up standards, leakage of removed wastes while in transit or at the final storage site, and remedial operations on ground water. Such liabilities can be joint and several where other parties are involved. The Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act also authorizes the Environmental Protection Agency to impose a lien in favor of the United States upon all real property subject to, or affected by, a remedial action for all costs that the party is liable. The Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act provides a responsible party with the right to bring a contribution action against other responsible parties for their allocable share of investigative and remedial costs. The Environmental Protection Agency may also bring suit for treble damages from responsible parties who unreasonably refuse to voluntarily participate in such a clean up or funding thereof. The Oil Pollution Act of 1990, which resulted from the Exxon Valdez oil spill and the subsequent damage to Prince William Sound, established a new liability compensation scheme for oil spills from onshore and offshore facilities and requires all entities engaged in the transport and storage of petroleum to maintain a written contingency plan to react to such types of events. Under the contingency plan, the petroleum products storage or transportation company must retain an oil spill response organization and a natural resources/wildlife rehabilitator. Oil spill response organizations are certified by the United States Coast Guard and receive designations based upon the level of their capabilities. In the event of an incident, the oil response organization on standby must respond by being on site with containment capability within two to six hours of notification. 9 Asbestos abatement firms are subject to federal, state and local regulators, including the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Transportation. The Environmental Protection Agency regulations establish standards for the control of asbestos fiber and airborne lead emissions into the environment during removal and demolition projects. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration regulations establish maximum airborne asbestos fiber, airborne lead and heavy metal exposure levels applicable to asbestos and demolition employees and set standards for employee protection during the demolition, removal or encapsulation of asbestos, as well as storage, transportation and final disposition of asbestos and demolition debris. The Department of Transportation regulations, in addition to the regulations imposed by the Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act, cover the management of the transportation of asbestos and demolition debris and establish certain certification labeling and packaging requirements. Government regulations have heightened public awareness of the danger of asbestos contamination, creating pressure on both private and public building owners to abate this hazard, even in the absence of specific regulations requiring corrective action. In 1992, in an effort to protect families from exposure to the hazards of lead based paint, Congress amended the Toxic Substances Control Act to add Title X, titled "Lead Exposure Reduction." Since May 1993, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration has had standards for lead exposure in the construction industry that requires testing before, during and after construction or renovation. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration estimates that 1,000,000 workers fall under its Lead Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act. Our operations also are subject to other federal laws protecting the environment, including the Clean Water Act and Toxic Substances Control Act. In addition, many states also have enacted statutes regulating the handling of hazardous substances, some of which are broader and more stringent than the federal laws and regulations. COMPLIANCE/HEALTH AND SAFETY We regard compliance with applicable environmental regulations and the health and safety of its workforce as critical components of our overall operations. This includes medical surveillance as required by these regulations. We believe that all requisite health and safety programs are in place and comply with the regulations in all material respects. Among our many services, we provide training programs on environmental and safety hazards in the environmental, industrial and construction industry trades. The training program is designed for use by supervisors, foremen, project safety and health trainers, construction workers and laborers. The training program includes the following topics: sources of exposure; health effects; personal protective equipment and the medical surveillance required by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration; and engineering controls and remediation procedures. INSURANCE AND SURETY BONDS We maintain comprehensive general liability insurance written on an occurrence basis. We also carry comprehensive auto, professional and pollution liability as well as worker's compensation and disability coverage. Basic limits of liability are $7,000,000. In addition, we carry all risk property insurance on all furniture, fixtures, equipment, machinery and watercraft. Certain of our remediation and abatement contracts require performance and payment bonds. The relationships with various sureties and the issuance of bonds is dependent on the sureties' willingness to write bonds for the various types of work that we perform, their assessment of our performance record and their view of our credit worthiness. There have been events in the national economy that have adversely affected the major insurance and surety companies. This has resulted in a tightening of the insurance and bonding markets that has resulted in the costs increasing and the availability of certain types of insurance and surety capacity either decreasing or becoming non-existent. 10 At present, we believe that surety bonds for a number of our service lines are available only from a limited number of sureties. As a result of the foregoing and our inability to obtain sufficient credit enhancements, our ability to obtain surety and performance bonds has been limited, and this may have had an adverse impact on our ability to obtain some projects. We expect that our ability to obtain surety and performance bonds will improve due to Michael O'Reilly's agreement to guarantee our bonding obligations. No assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain the surety or performance bonds required for all potential projects. Our continued failure to obtain these bonds could materially and adversely affect certain components of our operations. EMPLOYEES/TECHNICAL STAFF As of August 31, 2005, we employed a core group of approximately 77 persons, including executive officers, project managers, specialists, supervisors, field staff, marketing and clerical personnel. We attempt to provide year-round employment for our core field staff by cross training. We promote qualified field workers to supervisory positions and supervisors into production management and other staff positions, when applicable. We employ laborers for field operations based upon our current workload. Approximately 43 field staff and supervisors are employed by us on a steady basis, with additional labor hired on an as-needed basis to supplement our work force. We utilize several local unions to supply labor for bonded contract work. We have never had a work stoppage, and we believe that we maintain good relations with our employees. PERMITS AND LICENSES The Federal Government and certain states in the areas in which we operate require that mold, asbestos and lead abatement firms be licensed. Licensing generally requires that workers and supervisors receive training from state certified organizations and pass required tests. While we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all of our licensing and permit requirements, and we, or our personnel, maintain the required licenses and permits in all locations for which we conduct any applicable operations, we may need additional licenses or permits in areas into which we plan to expand our operations. In addition, we may be required to obtain additional permits or licenses if new environmental legislation or regulations are enacted or existing legislation or regulations are amended or enforced differently than in the past. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to comply will all of the permit and licensing requirements applicable to our business. We believe that the types of licenses we possess have reciprocity in most of the states due to their adherence to Federal standards, but no assurances can be given in that regard. PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, LICENSES AND COPYRIGHTS We do not own any patents or registered trademarks or trade names. We rely on common law trademark protection for certain of our trade names and service marks. We have copyrights for certain of our promotional and employee training materials. We do not believe that intellectual property is a competitive factor in our industry. GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION Since all of our operations are located in the United States of America, our geographic revenue information is based on the country in which the sales originate. The following is a table that shows the origin of revenues for our fiscal years ended June 28, 2005, June 29, 2004 and July 1, 2003: Geographic Information ---------------------- United States Non-United States Consolidated Total ------------- ----------------- ------------------ Fiscal 2005 $20,200,410 $ 0 $20,200,410 Fiscal 2004 $19,143,717 $ 23,036 $19,166,753 Fiscal 2003 $17,370,931 $ 460,258 $17,831,189 No geographical data is shown for long-lived assets, since our operations reside entirely in the United States. 11 BACKLOG We do not have any measurable backlog. In fiscal 2005, our audit committee directed management to implement a system by which backlog can be reliably measured. Management is in the process of formulating how best to implement such a system. RISK FACTORS Our operations, as well as an investment in its securities, involve numerous risks and uncertainties. The reader should carefully consider the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before making any investment decision involving our securities. Factors Affecting Future Operating Results - ------------------------------------------ DUE TO THE NATURE OF OUR BUSINESS AND THE INTENSE REGULATORY CLIMATE IN WHICH WE OPERATE, OUR SERVICES ARE SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE FEDERAL, STATE AND LOCAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS THAT ARE CONSTANTLY CHANGING. These regulations impose stringent guidelines on companies that handle hazardous materials as well as other companies involved in various aspects of the environmental remediation services industry. Failure to comply with applicable federal, state and local regulations could result in substantial costs to us, the imposition of penalties or in claims not covered by insurance, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition to the burdens imposed on operations by various environmental regulations, federal law imposes strict liability upon present and former owner and operators of facilities that release hazardous substances into the environment and the generators and transporters of such substances, as well as persons arranging for the disposal of such substances. All such persons may be liable for the costs of waste site investigation, waste site clean up, natural resource damages and related penalties and fines. Such costs can be substantial. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON THE INCURRENCE OF LARGE PROJECTS FROM A SMALL NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS. Due to the nature of the services we offer, we must generate most of our revenues from new customers. We cannot anticipate whether we will be able to replace our revenues with revenues from new projects in future periods. Our inability to replace the revenues generated as a result of large projects performed in the fiscal year ended July 2, 2002, particularly the catastrophe response projects in the vicinity of the World Trade Center following the terrorist attack on September 11, 2001, which accounted for approximately 52% of our revenues during such fiscal year, had a materially adverse impact on our sales in the fiscal years ended June 29, 2004 and June 28, 2005. We expect that the damage caused by Hurricane Katrina will have a favorable impact on our business, but until we execute profitable contracts in connection therewith, no assurance can be given in this regard. ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION OPERATIONS MAY EXPOSE OUR EMPLOYEES AND OTHERS TO DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY TOXIC QUANTITIES OF HAZARDOUS PRODUCTS. Toxic quantities of hazardous products can cause cancer and other debilitating diseases. Although we take extensive precautions to minimize worker exposure and we have not experienced any such claims from workers or other persons, there can be no assurance that, in the future, we will avoid liability to persons who contract diseases that may be related to such exposure. Such persons potentially include employees, persons occupying or visiting facilities in which contaminants are being, or have been, removed or stored, persons in surrounding areas, and persons engaged in the transportation and disposal of waste material. In addition, we are subject to general risks inherent in the construction industry. We may also be exposed to liability from the acts of our subcontractors or other contractors on a work site. 12 OUR ABILITY TO SERVICE OUR DEBT AND OTHER FINANCING TRANSACTIONS DEPENDS ON MANY FACTORS BEYOND OUR CONTROL. Our ability to service our debt and meet our other financial obligations as they come due is dependent on our future financial and operating performance. This performance is subject to various factors, including factors beyond our control such as changes in the general economy, our industry or the environmental and other laws pertaining to the services that we provide, changes in interest rates, energy and other costs. Although we believe that we have sufficient financing to service our note to Laurus in the principal amount of $6,000,000, we cannot ensure that we will have the ability to service the note in the future. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to enable us to service the note we issued to Laurus, and we are unable to obtain alternative financing, we could be forced to (a) reduce or delay capital expenditures; (b) sell some or all of our assets; or (c) limit or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, our operations or business plans. A DELAY BY US IN FILING OUR REGISTRATION STATEMENT ON OR BY OCTOBER 3, 2005, OR HAVING OUR REGISTRATION STATEMENT DECLARED EFFECTIVE BY THE SEC ON OR BY NOVEMBER 22, 2005, THE CONTRACTUAL DEADLINE, AS REQUIRED BY THE LAURUS REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT, WILL CAUSE US TO BE SUBJECT TO A SIGNIFICANT LIQUIDATED DAMAGES CLAIM, DEPENDING ON THE DURATION OF THE DELAY PERIOD. In conjunction with the Laurus transactions, we entered into a registration rights agreement, by which we were obligated to file a registration statement on Form S-1 with the SEC on or before September 23, 2005 until receiving an appropximate one-week extension from Laurus. In addition, we are required to have the registration statement declared effective by the SEC by November 22, 2005. If we fail to meet the extended deadline, we will be subject to a liquidated damage claim equal to 2.0% of the principal outstanding on the note we issued to Laurus, for each thirty day period, prorated for partial periods, until we either file an initial registration statement or until November 22, 2005, whichever comes first. In addition, if the initial registration statement is not declared effective by November 22, 2005, then we will be subject to a liquidated damage claim of 1.5% of the principal outstanding on the note we issued to Laurus, for the first thirty days, prorated for partial periods, and then 2.0% of the principal outstanding on the note we issued to Laurus, for each thirty day period, prorated for partial periods, per day after that time. If the registration statement is selected for review by the SEC, we may not be able to have the registration statement declared effective by November 22, 2005. THE FAILURE TO OBTAIN AND MAINTAIN REQUIRED GOVERNMENTAL LICENSES, PERMITS AND APPROVALS COULD HAVE A SUBSTANTIAL ADVERSE AFFECT ON OUR OPERATIONS. The remediation industry is highly regulated. We are required to have federal, state and local governmental licenses, permits and approvals for our facilities and services. There can be no assurance as to the successful outcome of any pending application or demonstration testing for any such license, permit or approval. In addition, our existing licenses, permits and approvals are subject to revocation or modification under a variety of circumstances. Failure to obtain timely, or to comply with the conditions of, applicable licenses, permits or approvals could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we expand our business and as new procedures and technologies are introduced, we may be required to obtain additional licenses, permits or approvals. We may be required to obtain additional licenses, permits or approvals if new environmental legislation or regulations are enacted or promulgated or existing legislation or regulations are amended, reinterpreted or enforced differently than in the past. Any new requirements that raise compliance standards may require us to modify our procedures and technologies to conform to more stringent regulatory requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to comply with all of the environmental and other regulatory requirements applicable to our business. 13 WE ARE DEPENDENT ON THE SUCCESSFUL DEVELOPMENTAL AND COMMERCIAL ACCEPTANCE OF OUR PROCEDURES AND TECHNOLOGIES. We are constantly developing, refining and implementing our procedures and technologies for environmental remediation. Our operations and future growth are dependent, in part, upon the acceptance and implementation of these procedures and technologies. There can be no assurance that successful development of future procedures and technologies will occur or, even if successfully developed or that we will be able to successfully commercialize such procedures and technologies. The successful commercialization of our procedures and technologies may depend in part on ongoing comparisons with other competing procedures and technologies and more traditional treatment, storage and disposal alternatives, as well as the continuing high cost and limited availability of commercial disposal options. There can be no assurance that our procedures and technologies will prove to be commercially viable or cost-effective or, if commercially viable and cost-effective, that we will be successful in timely securing the requisite regulatory licenses, permits and approvals for any such technologies or that such technologies will be selected for use in future projects. Our inability to develop, commercialize or secure the requisite licenses, permits and approvals for our procedures and technologies on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF OUR REVENUES IS GENERATED AS A RESULT OF REQUIREMENTS ARISING UNDER FEDERAL AND STATE LAWS, REGULATIONS AND PROGRAMS RELATED TO PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT. Environmental laws and regulations are, and will continue to be, a principal factor affecting demand for our services. The level of enforcement activities by federal, state and local environmental protection agencies and changes in such laws and regulations also affect the demand for such services. If the requirements of compliance with environmental laws and regulations were to be modified in the future, the demand for our services, and our business, financial condition and results of operations, could be materially adversely affected. WE ARE SUBJECT TO QUARTERLY FLUCTUATIONS IN OPERATING RESULTS. Our revenue is dependent on our projects and the timing and performance requirements of each project. Our revenue is also affected by the timing of our clients' planned remediation activities and need for our services. Due to this variation in demand, our quarterly results fluctuate. Accordingly, specific quarterly or interim results should not be considered indicative of results to be expected for any future quarter or for the full year. It is possible that in future quarters, our operating results will not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In such event, the price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. We are increasingly pursuing large, multi-year contracts as a method of achieving more predictable revenues, more consistent utilization of equipment and personnel, and greater leverage of sales and marketing costs. These larger projects pose significant risks if actual costs are higher than those estimated at the time of the placement of our bids. A loss on one or more of such larger contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the failure to obtain, or a delay in obtaining, targeted large, multi-year contracts could result in significantly less revenue for us than anticipated. OUR OPERATIONS ARE AFFECTED BY WEATHER CONDITIONS. While we provide our services on a year-round basis, the services we perform outdoors or outside of a sealed environment may be adversely affected by inclement weather conditions. Extended periods of rain, cold weather or other inclement weather conditions may result in delays in commencing or completing projects, in whole or in part. Any such delays may adversely affect our operations and financial results and may adversely affect the performance of other projects due to scheduling and staffing conflicts. 14 WE MUST CORRECTLY MANAGE GROWTH. Our future growth, including growth required in connection with Hurricane Katrina, may place significant demands on our operational, managerial and financial resources. There can be no assurance that our current management and systems will be adequate to address any future expansion of our business, particularly in light of staff reductions over the past several years. In such event, any inability to manage our growth or operations effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR ABILITY TO PERFORM UNDER OUR CONTRACTS AND TO SUCCESSFULLY BID FOR FUTURE CONTRACTS IS DEPENDENT UPON THE CONSISTENT PERFORMANCE OF EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES IN CONFORMITY WITH SAFETY AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS OF THE LICENSES AND PERMITS UNDER WHICH WE OPERATE. Our equipment and facilities are subject to frequent routine inspections by the regulatory authorities issuing such licenses and permits. In the event any of our key equipment and facilities were to be shut down for any appreciable period of time, either due to equipment breakdown or as the result of regulatory action in response to an alleged safety or other violation of the terms of the licenses under which we operate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. THE ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION INDUSTRY IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE AND WE FACE SUBSTANTIAL COMPETITION FROM OTHER COMPANIES. Many of our competitors have greater financial, managerial, technical and marketing resources than we do. To the extent that competitors possess or develop superior or more cost effective environmental remediation solutions or field service capabilities, or otherwise possess or acquire competitive advantages compared to us, our ability to compete effectively could be materially adversely affected. OUR FUTURE SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR CONTINUING ABILITY TO ATTRACT, RETAIN AND MOTIVATE HIGHLY QUALIFIED MANAGERIAL, TECHNICAL AND MARKETING PERSONNEL. We are highly dependent upon the continuing contributions of key managerial, technical and marketing personnel. Employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time, and competition for qualified technical personnel, in particular, is intense. The loss of the services of any of our key managerial, technical or marketing personnel, especially Michael O'Reilly, our chief executive officer, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. OCCASIONALLY, WE DEVELOP A CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK. We often contract with a limited number of customers. A small number of customers may therefore be responsible for a substantial portion of revenues at any time. While management assesses the credit risk associated with each proposed customer prior to the execution of a definitive contract, no assurances can be given that such assessments will be correct and that we will not incur substantial, noncollectible accounts receivable. IN ORDER TO SUCCESSFULLY BID ON AND SECURE CONTRACTS TO PERFORM ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION SERVICES OF THE NATURE OFFERED BY US TO OUR CUSTOMERS, WE OFTEN MUST PROVIDE SURETY BONDS WITH RESPECT TO EACH PROSPECTIVE AND, UPON SUCCESSFUL BID, ACTUAL PROJECTS. The number and size of contracts that we can perform is directly dependent upon our ability to obtain bonding. This ability to obtain bonding, in turn, is dependent, in material part, upon our net worth and working capital. While our ability to obtain bonding has been limited in recent years, we expect that our bonding capacity will be improved by the commitment by Michael O'Reilly, our chief executive officer, to personally guaranty such bonding; however, no assurance can be given in this regard. There can be no assurance that we will have adequate bonding capacity to bid on all of the projects which we would otherwise bid upon were we to have such bonding capacity or that we will in fact be successful in obtaining additional contracts on which we may bid. 15 COST OVERRUNS OR DISPUTED CHANGE ORDERS ON PROJECTS CALLING FOR FIXED PRICE PAYMENTS COULD HAVE MATERIALLY ADVERSE EFFECTS ON US. Cost overruns on projects covered by such contracts, due to such things as unanticipated price increases, unanticipated problems, inaccurate estimation of labor or material costs, procedural difficulties or disputes over the terms and specifications of contract performance or change orders, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. For example, a disputed change order on a large contract had a material adverse effect on our results of operations for our fiscal year ended June 29, 2004. There can be no assurance that cost overruns or disputed change orders will not occur in the future and have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, in order to remain competitive in the future, we may have to agree to enter into more fixed price and per unit contracts than in the past. IF OUR INSURANCE COSTS INCREASE SIGNIFICANTLY, THESE INCREMENTAL COSTS COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT ITS FINANCIAL RESULTS. The costs related to obtaining and maintaining workers compensation, professional and general liability insurance and health insurance has been increasing. If the cost of carrying this insurance continues to increase significantly, we will recognize an associated increase in costs that may negatively impact our margins. This could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and the price of our common stock. Accordingly, we are striving to contain or reduce our insurance costs. WE CANNOT GIVE ANY ASSURANCE THAT WE WILL BE ABLE TO SECURE ADDITIONAL FINANCING TO MEET OUR FUTURE CAPITAL NEEDS. Our long-term capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, cash flow from operations, the level of capital expenditures, working capital requirements and the growth of our business. Historically, we have relied upon commercial borrowings, debt and equity securities offerings and borrowings from shareholders and affiliates of shareholders to fund our operations and capital needs. We may need to incur additional indebtedness or raise additional capital to fund the capital needs of our operations or related to growth. As part of the financing transactions with Laurus described above, Laurus has a right of first refusal to provide us with additional financing and has until March 27, 2006 to provide us up to $300,000 of additional convertible debt financing on the same terms and conditions as the replacement note. There are no assurances that Laurus will provide financing in the future. In addition, our ability to borrow additional funds from lenders other than Laurus may be limited in light of (a) the senior security interest that Laurus holds securing its $6,000,000 in debt from us and (b) the subordinated security interest that Spotless holds securing its $500,000 note. To the extent additional debt financing cannot be raised on acceptable terms, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity financings. No assurance can be given that additional debt or equity financing will be available or that, if either or such financing is available, the terms of such financing will be favorable to us or our stockholders without substantial dilution of their ownership and rights. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to curtail our future operations significantly or to forego expansion opportunities. IF AN EVENT OF DEFAULT OCCURS UNDER THE CONVERTIBLE TERM NOTE ISSUED TO LAURUS, IT COULD RESULT IN A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, OPERATING RESULTS, OR FINANCIAL CONDITION. We issued Laurus an amended and restated convertible term note in the principal amount of $6,000,000 to Laurus. Events of default under the note include: o failure to pay interest and principal payments when due; o a breach by us of any material covenant or term or condition of the note or in any agreement made in connection therewith; o a breach by us of any material representation or warranty made in the note or in any agreement made in connection therewith; o any form of bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding instituted by or against us, which is not vacated within 30 days; 16 o any attachment or lien in excess of $75,000 in the aggregate made upon our assets or a judgment rendered against our property involving a liability of more than $75,000 which shall remain unvacated, unbonded or unstayed for a period of 30 days; o our failure to timely deliver shares of common stock when due upon conversions of the note or our failure to timely deliver a replacement note; o an SEC stop trade order or principal market trading suspension of our common stock in effect for 5 consecutive trading days or 5 days during a period of 10 consecutive trading days, provided we are not able to cure such trading suspension within 30 days of receiving notice or are able to list our common stock on another principal market within 60 days of such notice; o a failure to have authorized and reserved shares of our common stock for issuance on or before December 31, 2005 sufficient to provide for the full conversion of the note, option and warrant issued by us to Laurus; and o an indictment or threatened indictment of us or any of our executive officers under any criminal statute or commencement or threatened commencement of criminal or civil proceedings against us or any of our executive officers pursuant to which statutory or proceeding penalties or remedies available include forfeiture of any of our property. If we default on the note and the holder demands all payments due and payable, we will be required to pay 120% of the outstanding principal amount of the note and any interest accrued thereon. The cash required to pay such amounts will most likely come out of working capital. Since we rely on our working capital for our day-to-day operations, such a default on the note could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. To such extent that we are forced to restructure, file for bankruptcy, sell assets or cease operations your investment dollars would be at significant risk. Factors Affecting Our Securities - -------------------------------- ONE MAJOR STOCKHOLDER MAINTAINS THE ABILITY TO CONTROL OUR OPERATIONS. Currently, Michael O'Reilly, our chief executive officer and president, owns an aggregate of approximately 15,647,297 shares of our common stock and holds approximately 46.6% of our voting power. In addition, Mr. O'Reilly currently owns options, which are exercisable for 24,306,273 shares of our common stock. Should Mr. O'Reilly exercise his options to the fullest extent possible, he would own 39,953,570 shares of our common stock and hold approximately 69.0% of our voting power. Mr. O'Reilly entered into a lock-up agreement with Laurus that prohibits his disposition of his shares of our common stock and any and all related derivative securities until the earlier of (a) the repayment in full of the note we provided to Laurus or (b) June 30, 2010. Accordingly, Mr. O'Reilly may, in the future, be able to control the Board of Directors and thereby determine the corporate policy and the direction of our operations. CONVERSION OR EXERCISE OF OUR OUTSTANDING CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES COULD SUBSTANTIALLY DILUTE YOUR INVESTMENT AND THE EXISTENCE OF OUR CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. We have issued a convertible term note that is convertible at prices that are subject to adjustment due to a variety of factors, including the issuance of securities at, or at an exercise or conversion price, less than the current fixed conversion price of $0.09. As of September 20, 2005 the principal portion of the convertible term note was convertible into approximately 66,666,667 shares of our common stock (plus applicable interest, penalties and any anti-dilution adjustments). You could, therefore, experience substantial dilution of your investment as a result of the conversion of our outstanding convertible term note. We also have outstanding options to purchase up to 55,701,452 shares of our common stock, 28,895,179 shares of which may be purchased by Laurus at an exercise price of $.0001 per share, a warrant to purchase up to 13,750,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $.10 per share and series A preferred stock convertible into 1,300,000 shares of our common stock that could have a dilutive effect on your shares. The existence of these securities could also mean that an increase in the trading price of a share of our common stock will result in a limited benefit to existing security holders. This possibility could negatively affect the price of our common stock. 17 IF WE FAIL TO REMAIN CURRENT ON OUR REPORTING REQUIREMENTS, WE COULD BE REMOVED FROM THE OVER-THE-COUNTER BULLETIN BOARD WHICH WOULD LIMIT THE ABILITY OF BROKER-DEALERS TO SELL OUR SECURITIES AND THE ABILITY OF OUR STOCKHOLDERS TO SELL THEIR SECURITIES IN THE SECONDARY MARKET. Companies trading on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, such as us, must be reporting issuers under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and must be current in their reports under Section 13 in order to maintain price quotation privileges on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. If we fail to remain current on our reporting requirements, our common stock could be delisted from the OTC Bulletin Board. If this were to happen, it could severely limit the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities, and the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the secondary market and be severely affected. OUR SECURITIES HAVE BEEN THINLY TRADED ON THE OVER-THE-COUNTER BULLETIN BOARD, WHICH MAY NOT PROVIDE LIQUIDITY FOR OUR INVESTORS. Our securities are quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. The Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board is an inter-dealer, over-the-counter market that provides significantly less liquidity than the NASDAQ Stock Market or national or regional exchanges. Securities traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board are usually thinly traded, highly volatile, have fewer market makers and are not followed by analysts. The Securities and Exchange Commission's order handling rules, which apply to NASDAQ-listed securities, do not apply to securities quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. Quotes for stocks included on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board are not listed in newspapers. Therefore, prices for securities traded solely on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board may be difficult to obtain and holders of our securities may be unable to resell their securities at or near their original acquisition price, or at any price. INVESTORS MUST CONTACT A BROKER-DEALER TO TRADE OVER-THE-COUNTER BULLETIN BOARD SECURITIES. AS A RESULT, YOU MAY NOT BE ABLE TO BUY OR SELL OUR SECURITIES AT THE TIME YOU MAY WISH. Even though our securities are quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board may not permit our investors to sell securities when and in the manner that they wish. Because there are no automated systems for negotiating trades on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, they are conducted via telephone. In times of heavy market volume, the limitations of this process may result in a significant increase in the time it takes to execute investor orders. Therefore, when investors place market orders - an order to buy or sell a specific number of shares at the current market price - it is possible for the price of a stock to go up or down significantly during the lapse of time between placing a market order and its execution. IF OUR SECURITY HOLDERS ENGAGE IN SHORT SALES OF OUR COMMON STOCK, INCLUDING SALES OF SHARES TO BE ISSUED UPON CONVERSION OR EXERCISE OF DERIVATIVE SECURITIES, THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY DECLINE. Selling short is a technique used by a shareholder to take advantage of an anticipated decline in the price of a security. A significant number of short sales or a large volume of other sales within a relatively short period of time can create downward pressure on the market price of a security. Further sales of common stock issued upon conversion or exercise of our derivative securities could cause even greater declines in the price of our common stock due to the number of additional shares available in the market, which could encourage short sales that could further undermine the value of our common stock. You could, therefore, experience a decline in the value of your investment as a result of short sales of our common stock. WE DO NOT ANTICIPATE PAYING ANY CASH DIVIDENDS TO OUR COMMON SHAREHOLDERS FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. We expect that future earnings, if any, will be used to finance the growth and development of our business and do not expect to declare or pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of any future cash dividends by us will be dependent upon our earnings, our financial requirements and other relevant factors. Further, prior to paying any dividends on our common stock, we are required to pay quarterly dividends on our series A convertible preferred stock. 18 FUTURE SALES OF SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNTS OF OUR COMMON STOCK IN THE PUBLIC MARKET COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. As of September 27, 2005, we had 33,571,215 shares of our common stock outstanding. The existence of a large number of shares eligible for sale could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise additional equity capital on terms beneficial to us. WE HAVE EXPERIENCED SIGNIFICANT OPERATING LOSSES IN PRIOR YEARS AND MAY INCUR LOSSES IN THE FUTURE. Future losses could adversely affect the market value of our common stock. We generated a net income of $229,155 from our fiscal year ended June 28, 2005, and we incurred a net loss of approximately $3,535,000 in our fiscal year ended June 29, 2004. As of June 28, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $636,800. Even though we have taken steps in an effort to reduce costs and expenses and to increase revenues, we may not incur profits at any time in the future. IF OUR COMMON STOCK DOES NOT TRADE IN SUFFICIENT VOLUME AT HIGH ENOUGH PRICES, WE WOULD BE REQUIRED TO REPAY ALL OR PART OF OUR SENIOR SECURED CONVERTIBLE DEBT TO LAURUS IN CASH, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR CASH FLOW AND LIQUIDITY. Under the terms of our $6,000,000 senior secured convertible note to Laurus, we will be required to make amortization payments to Laurus in stock if the average closing price of our common stock is $.10 or more to the extent the amount of the amortization payment does not exceed 30% of the aggregate dollar trading volume of our common stock for the 22 trading day period immediately preceding the amortization date. To the extent that these conditions are not satisfied, we will be required to make such amortization payments in an amount equal to 103% of the principal amount, plus accrued interest. In the event that we are required to pay cash, this may have an adverse effect on our cash flow and liquidity. THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK HAS FLUCTUATED CONSIDERABLY AND WILL PROBABLY CONTINUE TO DO SO. The stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations, and the market price our common stock has been historically volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in the future as well in response to a variety of events or factors, some of which may be beyond our control. These could include, without limitation: o future announcements of new competing technologies and procedures; o changing policies and regulations of the federal state, and local governments; o fluctuations in our financial results; o liquidity of the market for our securities; o public perception of our entry into new markets; and o general conditions in our industry and the economy. OUR CHARTER CONTAINS AUTHORIZED, UNISSUED PREFERRED STOCK THAT MAY INHIBIT A CHANGE OF CONTROL OF US UNDER CIRCUMSTANCES THAT COULD OTHERWISE GIVE OUR STOCKHOLDERS THE OPPORTUNITY TO REALIZE A PREMIUM OVER PREVAILING MARKET PRICES OF OUR SECURITIES. Our restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, and by-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us under circumstances that could give stockholders an opportunity to realize a premium over then-prevailing market prices of our securities. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and upon terms as our board may determine. The rights of holders of our common stock are subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of future holders of preferred stock. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law makes it more difficult for an "interested stockholder" (generally, a 15% stockholder) to effect various business combinations with a corporation for a three-year period after the stockholder becomes an "interested stockholder." In general, these provisions may discourage a third party from attempting to acquire us and, therefore, may inhibit a change of control. 19 