Item 1A Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information provided in this Annual Report before purchasing our common stock. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and should be considered only by persons who can afford the loss of their entire investment. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not known to us or that we do not consider to be material at this time. If the events described in these risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely suffer. Additionally, this Annual Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. This section discusses the risk factors that might cause those differences. Risk Factors Risks of Our Business We Lack an Operating History And Have Losses Which We Expect To Continue Into the Future. To date we have no source of revenue. We have no operating history as a mineral exploration or mining company upon which an evaluation of our future success or failure can be made. 7 World Economic Conditions Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition The effects of the recent global financial crisis are difficult to accurately predict. As a result of this crisis, conditions in the credit markets have become uncertain and risk adverse. These adverse conditions may make it harder for the Company to raise additional funds to finance the continued development of its business. Continued adverse economic conditions could adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. We Have No Known Gold Reserves And We Cannot Assure You That We Will Find Such Reserves. If We Develop A Gold Reserve, There Is No Guarantee That Production Will Be Profitable. We have not identified any gold reserves and we cannot guarantee we will ever find any. Even if we find a gold reserve, there is no assurance that we will be able to mine them. Even if we develop a mine, there is no assurance that we will make a profit. If we do not find gold reserves, you could lose part or all of your investment. We Will Need Additional Financing To Determine If There Is Gold Or Other Commercial Minerals. Our success will depend on our ability to raise additional capital. We have not found a commercially viable gold deposit and further exploration is required. There is no assurance whatsoever that funds will be available from any source or, if available, that they can be obtained on terms acceptable to us to make these investments. This could cause the loss of all or part of your investment. The Report Of Our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Contains An Emphasis of Matter Paragraph Questioning Our Ability To Continue As A Going Concern. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our consolidated financial statements as of June 30, 2013 and 2012 and for the years ended June 30, 2013 and 2012 and for the period July 1, 2002 (inception of exploration stage) through June 30, 2013 includes an emphasis of matter paragraph questioning our ability to continue as a going concern. This paragraph indicates that we have not yet commenced revenue producing operations and have a retained deficit of CDN$51,043,000 (US$48,516,000) which could raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In addition, during fiscal 2013, the Company sold its controlling interest in Acadian. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. If Our Officers And Directors Stopped Working For Us, We Would Be Adversely Impacted. None of our executive officers or directors works for us on a full-time basis. There are no proposals or definitive arrangements to compensate our officers and directors or to engage them on a full-time basis. They each rely on other business activities to support themselves. They each have a conflict of interest in that they are officers and directors of other companies. You must rely on their skills and experience in order for us to reach our objective. We have no employment agreements or key man life insurance policy on any of them. The loss of some or all of these officers and directors could adversely affect our ability to carry on business and could cause you to lose part or all of your investment. We Are Substantially Dependent Upon AXIS To Carry Out Our Activities The Company holds a 9.09% interest in AXIS at a cost of A$1 and which is accounted for under the cost method and any profits generated by AXIS are returned to its stockholders in the form of dividends. The majority stockholder (72.73%) of AXIS is a third party independent of the Company Directors and management (J I Gutnick and his family or any of their private companies do not hold any shares in AXIS). 8 We are substantially dependent upon AXIS for our senior management, financial and accounting, corporate legal and other corporate headquarters functions. For example, each of our officers is employed by AXIS and, as such, is required by AXIS to devote substantial amounts of time to the business and affairs of the other stockholders of AXIS. We are one of nine affiliated companies. Each of the companies has some common Directors, officers and shareholders. In addition, each of the companies is substantially dependent upon AXIS for its senior management and certain mining and exploration staff. A number of arrangements and transactions have been entered into from time to time between such companies. Currently, there are no material arrangements or planned transactions between the Company and any of the other affiliated companies other than AXIS, except that one of these companies, Northern Capital Resources Corp, is our principal stockholder. However, it is possible we may enter into such transactions in the future which could present conflicts of interest. In addition, there may be conflicts among the Company and the other companies that AXIS provides services to with respect to access to executive and administrative personnel and other resources. Historically, AXIS has allocated corporate opportunities to each of the companies engaged in the exploration and mining industry after considering the location of each of the companies’ operations and the type of commodity for which each company explores within its geographic region. At present, there are no conflicts among the Company and the other nine companies with respect to the principal geographic areas in which they operate and/or the principal commodities that they are searching for. Pursuant to a services agreement, AXIS provides us with office facilities, administrative personnel and services, management and geological staff and services. No fixed fee is set in the agreement and we are required to reimburse AXIS for any direct costs incurred by AXIS for us. In addition, we pay a proportion of AXIS indirect costs based on a measure of our utilization of the facilities and activities of AXIS plus a service fee of not more than 15% of the direct and indirect costs. Further, from time to time we have provided funds to AXIS in advance to ensure that AXIS is able to provide the services under the service arrangements and this may continue into the future. This service agreement may be terminated by us or AXIS on 60 days’ notice. See “Item 13 - Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions.” Future Sales of Common Stock Could Depress The Price Of Our Common Stock Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933 or otherwise by certain stockholders could have a material adverse impact on the market price for the common stock at the time. There are presently 55,929,096 outstanding shares of our common stock held by stockholders which are deemed “restricted securities” as defined by Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Under certain circumstances, these shares may be sold without registration pursuant to the provisions of Rule 144. In general, under rule 144, a person (or persons whose shares are aggregated) who has satisfied a six-month holding period and who is not an affiliate of the Company may sell restricted securities without limitation as long as the Company is current in its SEC reports. A person who is an affiliate of the Company may sell within any three-month period a number of restricted securities which does not exceed the greater of one (1%) percent of the shares outstanding or the average weekly trading volume during the four calendar weeks preceding the notice of sale required by Rule 144. In addition, Rule 144 permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of restricted securities by a non-affiliate without any limitations after a one-year holding period. Any sales of shares by stockholders pursuant to Rule 144 may have a depressive effect on the price of our Common stock. Our Common Stock Is Traded Over the Counter, Which May Deprive Stockholders Of The Full Value Of Their Shares Our common stock is quoted via the Over The Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB). As such, our common stock may have fewer market makers, lower trading volumes and larger spreads between bid and asked prices than securities listed on an exchange such as the New York Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ Stock Market. These factors may result in higher price volatility and less market liquidity for the common stock. 9 A Low Market Price May Severely Limit The Potential Market For Our Common Stock Our common stock is currently trading at a price substantially below $5.00 per share, subjecting trading in the stock to certain SEC rules requiring additional disclosures by broker-dealers. These rules generally apply to any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions (a “penny stock”). Such rules require the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and institutional or wealthy investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to the broker-dealer, current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. Such information must be provided to the customer orally or in writing before or with the written confirmation of trade sent to the customer. Monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stock. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock. The Market Price Of Your Shares Will Be Volatile. The stock market price of gold mining exploration companies like us has been volatile. Securities markets may experience price and volume volatility. The market price of our stock may experience wide fluctuations that could be unrelated to our financial and operating results. Such volatility or fluctuations could adversely affect your ability to sell your shares and the value you might receive for those shares. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 