Risk Factors Our operations, as well as an investment in our securities, involve numerous risks and uncertainties. The reader should carefully consider the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before making any investment decision involving our securities. Factors Affecting Future Operating Results We have experienced significant operating losses and may incur losses in the future. Future losses could adversely effect the market value of our common stock. Although we generated net income of $53,066 in our fiscal year ended June 28, 2005, we incurred net losses of ($20,517,190), ($3,535,344) and ($469,004) in our fiscal years ended June 30, 2006, June 29, 2004 and July 1, 2003, respectively. As of June 30, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of ($55,181,891). In fiscal 2006, although we had operating income of $5,301,419, we incurred a mark-to-market loss on embedded derivative liabilities of $19,373,659 and non-cash interest charges of $4,733,847. As a result of the agreements we reached with Laurus on September 29, 2006, we believe that we will no longer have to apply derivative accounting and that on our September 30, 2006, applicable derivative liability balances will be credited to equity. Nonetheless, our results from operations will still be adversely effected in future periods by significant interest expense changes resulting from the accounting for the Laurus financing, including from direct interest expense on the Note, amortization of the discount on the Note and amortization of deferred financing costs. Further, due to the lack of hurricane related work in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and to date in fiscal 2007 as compared to the significant revenues in the first half of fiscal 2006 derived from work related to Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma, we generated net revenues of $2,522,188 for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and expect unfavorable comparisons with respect to operating income in the early part of fiscal 2007 as compared to the comparable period for fiscal 2006. There can be no assurance that we will generate profits in the future. If our common stock does not trade in sufficient volume at high enough prices, or if Laurus is not willing or able to sufficiently reduce its ownership of our common stock, we would be required to repay all or part of our senior secured convertible debt to Laurus in cash, which could adversely effect our cash flow and liquidity. Under the terms of the Note, in the principal amount of $5,942,175 at October 19, 2006, we are required to make monthly payments on the first day of each month. Commencing July 1, 2006 and through December 31, 2006, we are obligated to make interest only payments, and commencing January 1, 2007, we are obligated to make payments to Laurus in the amount of $100,000, applied first to interest and then to principal. In the event that at any time we have a cash and cash equivalents balance in excess of $1,000,000, 50% of any cash received in excess of such amount is required to be used to pay down principal on the Note. The remaining unpaid principal balance is due on June 30, 2009. We are required to pay such amounts in shares of our common stock up to a maximum aggregate dollar principal amount of $1,942,175 should all of the following conditions be satisfied: o the average closing price of its common stock for the five (5) trading days immediately prior to the first of each month is equal to or greater than $.10; 13 o the amount of the payment then due is not an amount greater than thirty percent (30%) of the aggregate dollar trading volume of the common stock for the period of twenty-two (22) trading days immediately prior to the first day of the month for which payment is due; o the common stock so issuable has been registered under an effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 or is otherwise covered by an exemption from registration for resale pursuant to Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933; o Laurus' aggregate beneficial ownership of our shares of common stock does not exceed 9.99%; and o we are not in default of the Note. If we are required to pay Laurus in shares of our common stock, the issuance of such shares could have a substantial dilutive effect on our common stock. If any of these conditions are not satisfied, we will be required to make payments in cash. Should we be required to pay cash, this may have an adverse effect on our cash flow and liquidity. We are dependent on the incurrence of large projects. Due to the nature of the services we offer, we generate most of our revenues from new customers. We cannot anticipate whether we will be able to replace our revenues with revenues from new projects in future periods. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, our projects in the areas damaged by Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma accounted for 56% of our revenues during such year. We had substantially completed our work in these areas by the third quarter of fiscal 2006. Reflecting our emphasis on hurricane-related work, our revenues during fiscal 2006 decreased from $17,714,342 in the second quarter to $7,213,546 in the third quarter to $2,552,188 in the fourth quarter. We currently expect unfavorable revenue comparisons for the early part of fiscal 2007 as compared to the comparable periods during fiscal 2006. We are not sure when and if we will be able to find other similar favorable business. We could develop concentrations of credit risk. We often contract with a limited number of customers. A small number of customers may therefore be responsible for a substantial portion of our revenues and accounts receivable at any time. While our management assesses the credit risk associated with each prospective customer prior to the execution of a definitive contract, no assurances can be given that such assessments will be correct or that we will not incur substantial, uncollectible accounts receivable. We could be harmed by our slow collections of accounts receivable. It typically takes us up to a year to collect on our accounts receivables. Although we have implemented new measures in an effort to improve our collections, as described under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Liquidity and Capital Resources," no assurances can be given that they will be successful in improving our collections and cash flows. If our collections prove to be insufficient for our cash flow needs, this may have an adverse effect on our business and operations. We must correctly manage growth. Our potential growth in the future, including growth relating to future disasters such as Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma, may place significant demands on our operational, managerial and financial resources. There can be no assurance that our current management, personnel and systems will be adequate to address this or any other future expansion of our business. In such event, any inability to manage our growth or operations effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to service our debt and other financing transactions depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to service our debt and meet our other financial obligations as they come due is dependent on our future financial and operating performance. This performance is subject to various factors, including factors beyond our control such as changes in the general economy, our industry or the environmental and other laws pertaining to the services that we provide, and changes in interest rates, energy and other costs. Although we believe that we have sufficient resources to service our Note to Laurus in the current principal amount of $5,942,175 and our other obligations, we cannot ensure that we will have the ability to service the Note in the future. 14 If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to enable us to service the Note we issued to Laurus, and we are unable to obtain alternative financing, we could be forced to: o reduce or delay capital expenditures; o sell some or all of our assets; or o limit or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, our operations or business. An event of default under the Laurus Note could result in a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Laurus holds a Note of ours with a current principal amount of $5,942,175. Events of default under the Note include: o a failure to pay monthly interest and principal payments when due or prior to the expiration of any applicable grace period; o a breach by us of any material covenant or term or condition of the Note or in any agreement made in connection therewith and, to the extent subject to cure, the continuation of such breach without remedy for a period of fifteen or thirty days, as the case may be; o a breach by us of any material representation or warranty made in the Note or in any agreement made in connection therewith; o any form of bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding instituted by or against us, which is not vacated within 30 days; o any attachment or lien in excess of $75,000 in the aggregate made upon our assets or a judgment rendered against our property involving a liability of more than $75,000 which shall remain unvacated, unbonded or unstayed for a period of 30 days; o a failure to timely deliver shares of common stock when due upon conversion of the Note or a failure to timely deliver a replacement note; o an SEC stop trade order or principal market trading suspension of our common stock is in effect for 5 consecutive trading days or 5 days during a period of 10 consecutive trading days, provided we are not able to cure such trading suspension within 30 days of receiving notice or are not able to list our common stock on another principal market within 60 days of such notice; o an indictment or threatened indictment of us or any of our executive officers under any criminal statute or commencement or threatened commencement of criminal or civil proceedings against us or any of our executive officers pursuant to which statutory or proceeding penalties or remedies available include forfeiture of any of our property; and o the departure of Michael O'Reilly from our senior management. If we default, the interest rate charged with respect to the Note will be increased by 2% per month until the default is cured. In addition, if the holder of the Note demands payment of all amounts due and payable in connection with a default, we will be required to pay 110% of the outstanding principal amount of the Note and any accrued and unpaid interest. The cash required to pay such amounts will most likely come out of working capital, unless we are able to arrange alternative financing. Since we rely on our working capital for our day-to-day operations, such a default on the Note could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. To such extent that we are forced to restructure, file for bankruptcy, sell assets or cease operations, your investment dollars would be at significant risk. We cannot give any assurance that we will be able to secure additional financing to meet our future capital needs. Our long-term capital requirements will depend upon many factors, including, but not limited to, cash flow from operations, our level of capital expenditures, our working capital requirements and the growth of our business. Historically, we have financed our operations primarily through issuances of debt and equity securities, through short-term borrowings from our former majority stockholder, and through cash generated from operations. 15 We may need to incur additional indebtedness or raise additional capital to fund the capital needs of our operations or related to growth. There are no assurances that Laurus will provide financing in the future. In addition, our ability to borrow additional funds from lenders other than Laurus may be limited in light of: o the senior security interest that Laurus holds securing its Note from us; and o the subordinated security interest that Spotless holds securing its $500,000 note. To the extent additional debt financing cannot be raised on acceptable terms, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity financings. No assurance can be given that additional debt or equity financing will be available or that, if either or such financing is available, the terms of such financing will be favorable to us or our stockholders without substantial dilution of their ownership and rights. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to curtail our future operations significantly or to forego expansion opportunities. Due to the nature of our business and the intense regulatory climate in which we operate, our services are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations that are constantly changing. These regulations impose stringent guidelines on companies that handle hazardous materials as well as other companies involved in various aspects of the environmental remediation services industry. Failure to comply with applicable federal, state and local regulations could result in substantial costs to us, the imposition of penalties or in claims not covered by insurance, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition to the burdens imposed on operations by various environmental regulations, federal law imposes strict liability upon present and former owner and operators of facilities that release hazardous substances into the environment and the generators and transporters of such substances, as well as persons arranging for the disposal of such substances. All such persons may be liable for the costs of waste site investigation, waste site clean up, natural resource damages and related penalties and fines. Such costs can be substantial. Environmental remediation operations may expose our employees and others to dangerous and potentially toxic quantities of hazardous products. Toxic quantities of hazardous products can cause cancer and other debilitating diseases. Although we take extensive precautions to minimize worker exposure and we have not experienced any such claims from workers or other persons, there can be no assurance that, in the future, we will avoid liability to persons who contract diseases that may be related to such exposure. Such persons potentially include employees, persons occupying or visiting facilities in which contaminants are being, or have been, removed or stored, persons in surrounding areas, and persons engaged in the transportation and disposal of waste material. In addition, we are subject to general risks inherent in the construction industry. We may also be exposed to liability from the acts of our subcontractors or other contractors on a work site. The failure to obtain and maintain required governmental licenses, permits and approvals could have a substantial adverse effect on our operations. The remediation industry is highly regulated. We are required to have federal, state and local governmental licenses, permits and approvals for our facilities and services. There can be no assurance as to the successful outcome of any pending application or demonstration testing for any such license, permit or approval. In addition, our existing licenses, permits and approvals are subject to revocation or modification under a variety of circumstances. Failure to obtain timely, or to comply with the conditions of, applicable licenses, permits or approvals could adversely effect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we expand our business and as new procedures and technologies are introduced, we may be required to obtain additional licenses, permits or approvals. We may be required to obtain additional licenses, permits or approvals if new environmental legislation or regulations are enacted or promulgated or existing legislation or regulations are amended, reinterpreted or enforced differently than in the past. Any new requirements that raise compliance standards may require us to modify our procedures and technologies to conform to more stringent regulatory requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to comply with all of the environmental and other regulatory requirements applicable to our business. 16 A substantial portion of our revenues are generated as a result of requirements arising under federal and state laws, regulations and programs related to protection of the environment. Environmental laws and regulations are, and will continue to be, a principal factor effecting demand for our services. The level of enforcement activities by federal, state and local environmental protection agencies and changes in such laws and regulations also effect the demand for such services. If the requirements of compliance with environmental laws and regulations were to be modified in the future, the demand for our services, and our business, financial condition and results of operations, could be materially adversely effected. We are dependent on the successful developmental and commercial acceptance of our procedures and technologies. We are constantly developing, refining and implementing our procedures and technologies for environmental remediation. Our operations and future growth are dependent, in part, upon the acceptance and implementation of these procedures and technologies. There can be no assurance that successful development of future procedures and technologies will occur or, even if successfully developed, that we will be able to successfully commercialize such procedures and technologies. The successful commercialization of our procedures and technologies may depend in part on ongoing comparisons with other competing procedures and technologies and more traditional treatment, storage and disposal alternatives, as well as the continuing high cost and limited availability of commercial disposal options. There can be no assurance that our procedures and technologies will prove to be commercially viable or cost-effective or, if commercially viable and cost-effective, that we will be successful in timely securing the requisite regulatory licenses, permits and approvals for any such procedures or technologies or that such procedures or technologies will be selected for use in future projects. Our inability to develop, commercialize or secure the requisite licenses, permits and approvals for our procedures and technologies on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to quarterly fluctuations in operating results. Our revenue is dependent on our projects and the timing and performance requirements of each project. Our revenue is also effected by the timing of our customers' remediation activities and need for our services. Due to this variation in demand, our quarterly results may fluctuate. Accordingly, specific quarterly or interim results should not be considered indicative of results to be expected for any future quarter or for the full year. It is possible that in future quarters, our operating results will not meet the expectations of investors. In such event, the price of our common stock could be materially adversely effected. We increasingly seek large, multi-year contracts. We are increasingly pursuing large, multi-year contracts as a method of achieving more predictable revenues, more consistent utilization of equipment and personnel, and greater leverage of sales and marketing costs. These larger projects pose significant risks if actual costs are higher than those estimated at the time of the placement of any fixed-price bids. A loss on one or more of such larger contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the failure to obtain, or a delay in obtaining, targeted large, multi-year contracts could result in significantly less revenue for us than anticipated. Our operations are effected by weather conditions. While we provide our services on a year-round basis, the services we perform outdoors or outside of a sealed environment may be adversely effected by inclement weather conditions. Extended periods of rain, cold weather or other inclement weather conditions may result in delays in commencing or completing projects, in whole or in part. Any such delays may adversely effect our operations and financial results and may adversely effect the performance of other projects due to scheduling and staffing conflicts. 17 Our ability to perform under our contracts and to successfully bid for future contracts is dependent upon the consistent performance of equipment and facilities in conformity with safety and other requirements of the licenses and permits under which we operate. Our equipment and facilities are subject to frequent routine inspections by the regulatory authorities issuing such licenses and permits. In the event any of our key equipment and facilities were to be shut down for any appreciable period of time, either due to equipment breakdown or as the result of regulatory action in response to an alleged safety or other violation of the terms of the licenses under which we operate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely effected. The environmental remediation industry is highly competitive and we face substantial competition from other companies. Many of our competitors have greater financial, managerial, technical and marketing resources than we do. To the extent that competitors possess or develop superior or more cost effective environmental remediation solutions or field service capabilities, or otherwise possess or acquire competitive advantages compared to us, our ability to compete effectively could be materially adversely effected. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified managerial, technical and marketing personnel. We are highly dependent upon the continuing contributions of key managerial, technical and marketing personnel. Our business necessitates that we employ highly specialized technical, managerial and marketing employees who have industry specific knowledge. Our employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time, and competition for qualified technical personnel experienced in the environmental remediation industry is intense, particularly in light of the demand generated by recent hurricanes. The loss of the services of any of our key managerial, technical or marketing personnel, especially Michael O'Reilly, our chief executive officer, could materially adversely effect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to successfully bid on and secure contracts to perform environmental remediation services of the nature offered by us to our customers, we sometimes must provide surety bonds with respect to each prospective and, upon successful bid, actual projects. The number and size of contracts that we can perform from time to time is to a certain extent dependent upon our ability to obtain bonding. This ability to obtain bonding is dependent, in material part, upon our net worth and working capital. Our ability to obtain bonding has been limited in recent years. There can be no assurance that we will have adequate bonding capacity to bid on all of the projects which we would otherwise bid upon were we to have such bonding capacity or that we will in fact be successful in obtaining additional contracts on which we may bid, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. None of our current projects require surety bonding. We have identified issues relating to our internal controls over financial reporting that may prevent us from being able to accurately report our financial results, which could harm our business and operating results. In connection with our first quarter fiscal 2006 review, we identified issues arising in connection with a change in our accounting staff during such period regarding the timing and related processing of cash receipts and allocation of costs associated with our contract and billing procedures and have or are in the process of implementing the following measures: o We have modified our calendar quarterly period end dates in our computer system to correspond with our actual quarterly period end dates in order to enhance the accurate and timely processing of our cash receipts for each quarterly period. We have also emphasized to our accounting staff that they need to record transactions on the dates that they occur instead of batching such transactions for processing at the end of one of our monthly, quarterly or annual periods. 18 o We are in the process of modifying the way in which we allocate our costs to specific projects in an effort to more precisely record our project costs. Any delay or failure to implement these measures, or difficulties encountered in their implementation or operation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, or prevent us from providing reliable and accurate financial reports. Disclosure of failure to remediate these problems in a timely fashion could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock and our access to capital. Factors Affecting Our Securities One major stockholder maintains the ability to control our operations. Currently, Michael O'Reilly, our chief executive officer and president, owns an aggregate of 15,647,297 shares of our common stock and holds approximately 46.2% of our voting power. In addition, Mr. O'Reilly currently owns options which are exercisable for 24,306,273 shares of our common stock. Should Mr. O'Reilly exercise his options to the fullest extent possible, he would own 39,953,570 shares of our common stock and hold approximately 68.6% of our voting power. Accordingly, Mr. O'Reilly may be able to control the Board of Directors and thereby determine the corporate policy and the direction of our operations. Mr. O'Reilly entered into a lock-up agreement with Laurus that prohibits his disposition of his shares of our common stock and any and all related derivative securities until the earlier of (a) the repayment in full of the Laurus Note or (b) June 30, 2010. Conversion or exercise of our outstanding convertible or other derivative securities could substantially dilute your investment and the existence of our convertible and derivative securities could negatively effect the price of our common stock. As required by Laurus in connection with consummating our amended financing transaction, we have issued to Laurus, subject to a beneficial ownership limitation of 9.99% : o the Note, which is convertible at $.09 per share into, approximately 21,579,722 shares of our common stock; o options exercisable at $.0001 per share currently for 28,895,179 and 11,145,000 shares. Laurus previously acquired 1,500,000 shares in connection with its partial exercise of one of the options; and o a warrant exercisable at $.10 per share for 13,750,000 shares. We also have other outstanding options to purchase up to 26,806,273 shares of our common stock, which include 24,306,273 shares issuable upon exercise of options granted to our president and chief executive officer exercisable at $.01 per share with respect to 2,000,000 shares, at $.07904 per share with respect to 5,486,309 shares and at $.09 per share with respect to 15,469,964 shares. The issuance of any of these shares will dilute the percentage ownership of our current shareholders. The existence of these convertible and derivative securities could negatively effect the price of our common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. As of June 30, 2006, we had 33,571,215 shares of common stock outstanding. The registration statement that we expect to file will register for resale 5,395,061 shares, or approximately 13.7% of our issued and outstanding common stock inclusive of such registered shares. In addition, Laurus may demand that we file additional registration statements upon 45 days notice to register shares held by them in excess of the 5,395,061 shares to be registered in our next registration statement. We are unable to predict the potential effect that sales into the market of these shares may have on the then prevailing market price of our common stock. It is likely that market sales of these shares (or the potential for these sales even if they do not actually occur) may have the effect of depressing the market price of our common stock. As a result, the potential resale and possible fluctuations in trading volume of such a substantial amount of our stock may effect our share price negatively. 19 We are precluded from paying and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends to our common stockholders for the foreseeable future. We are prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends to our common stockholders without Laurus' prior written consent for so long as at least twenty-five percent of the original principal amount of the Note is outstanding. Further, we expect that future earnings, if any, will be used to finance the working capital, debt service growth and the development of our business and do not expect to declare or pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of any future cash dividends by us will be dependent upon our earnings, the stability thereof, our financial requirements and other relevant factors. In addition, prior to paying any dividends on our common stock, we are required to pay any accrued and unpaid quarterly dividends on our series A convertible preferred stock. Our securities have been thinly traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, which may not provide liquidity for our investors. Our securities are quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. The Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board is an inter-dealer, over-the-counter market that provides significantly less liquidity than the NASDAQ Stock Market or national or regional securities exchanges. Securities traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board are usually thinly traded, highly volatile, have fewer market makers and are not followed by analysts. The Securities and Exchange Commission's order handling rules, which apply to NASDAQ-listed securities, do not apply to securities quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. Quotes for stocks included on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board are not listed in newspapers. Therefore, prices for securities traded solely on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board may be difficult to obtain and holders of our securities may be unable to resell their securities at or near their original acquisition price, or at any price. If we fail to remain current on our reporting requirements or if we do not timely make all necessary filings, we could be removed from the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, which would limit the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of our stockholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. Companies trading on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, such as us, must be reporting issuers under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and must be current in their reports under Section 13 in order to maintain price quotation privileges on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. If we fail to remain current on our reporting requirements or we do not timely make all necessary filings, our common stock could be delisted from the OTC Bulletin Board. If this were to happen, it could severely limit the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities, and the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the secondary market may be severely affected. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated considerably and will probably continue to do so. The stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations, and the market price of our common stock has historically been volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in the future as well in response to a variety of events or factors, some of which may be beyond our control. These could include, without limitation: o the occurrence of catastrophes requiring remediation; o our ability to obtain large projects; o changing policies and regulations of the federal state, and local governments; o fluctuations in our financial results; o liquidity of the market for our securities; o future announcements of new competing technologies and procedures; 20 o public perception of our entry into new markets; and o general conditions in our industry and the economy. Our charter contains authorized, unissued preferred stock that may inhibit a change of control under circumstances that could otherwise give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over prevailing market prices of our securities. Our restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, and by-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us under circumstances that could give stockholders an opportunity to realize a premium over then-prevailing market prices of our securities. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and upon terms as our board may determine. The rights of holders of our common stock are subject to, and may be adversely effected by, the rights of future holders of preferred stock. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law makes it more difficult for an "interested stockholder" (generally, a 15% stockholder) to effect various business combinations with a corporation for a three-year period after the stockholder becomes an "interested stockholder." In general, these provisions may discourage a third party from attempting to acquire us and, therefore, may inhibit a change of control. 