Item 1A Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information provided in this Annual Report before purchasing our common stock. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and should be considered only by persons who can afford the loss of their entire investment. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not known to us or that we do not consider to be material at this time. If the events described in these risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely suffer. Additionally, this Annual Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. This section discusses the risk factors that might cause those differences. Risk Factors Risks of Our Business We Lack an Operating History And Have Losses Which We Expect To Continue Into the Future. To date we have no source of revenue. We have no operating history as a mineral exploration or mining company upon which an evaluation of our future success or failure can be made. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability and positive cash flow is dependent upon: - exploration and development of the property covered by our mineral claims; 47 - our ability to locate economically viable mineral reserves in the property covered by our mineral claims; - our ability to raise the capital necessary to conduct exploration and preserve our interest in the mineral claims, increase our interest in the mineral claims and continue as an exploration and mining company; and - our ability to generate revenues and profitably operate a mine on the property covered by our mineral claims. World Economic Conditions Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition The effects of the recent global financial crisis are difficult to accurately predict. As a result of this crisis, conditions in the credit markets have become uncertain and risk adverse. These adverse conditions may make it harder for the Company to raise additional funds to finance the continued development of its business. Continued adverse economic conditions could adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. We Have No Known Gold Reserves And We Cannot Assure You That We Will Find Such Reserves. If We Develop A Gold Reserve, There Is No Guarantee That Production Will Be Profitable. We have not identified any gold reserves on the properties covered by our mineral claims and we cannot guarantee we will ever find any. Also, to the extent that commercial mineral reserves have been identified by other companies on properties that are adjacent to or within the same geographic region as our exploration properties, this does not mean that we will be successful in identifying commercial mineral reserves on our properties. Even if we find a gold reserve, there is no assurance that we will be able to mine them. Even if we develop a mine, there is no assurance that we will make a profit. If we do not find gold reserves, you could lose part or all of your investment. We Will Need Additional Financing To Determine If There Is Gold Or Other Commercial Minerals And To Maintain The Mineral Claims. Our success will depend on our ability to raise additional capital. Commencing in fiscal 2012, we will be required to undertake field exploration programs on both the Slave and Committee Bay properties in order to maintain the leases. The Company will be required to make payments of approximately CDN$577,000 prior to the end of 2011 and incur expenditure or make payments in lieu of expenditure of CDN$611,252 prior to the end of 2012. Further, Acadian has an obligation to spend amounts on its mineral properties in order to maintain the leases and is required to spend CDN$640,985 and issue 29,118 Acadian shares on gold exploration properties during fiscal 2012. However, at this time, we have not found a commercially viable gold deposit and further exploration is required. There is no assurance whatsoever that funds will be available from any source or, if available, that they can be obtained on terms acceptable to us to make these investments. If funds are not available in the amounts required to maintain an interest, we will be unable to proceed further on the Committee Bay Properties, Slave Properties and Acadian Properties and our operations would be severely limited, and we would be unable to reach our objective. This could cause the loss of all or part of your investment. The Report Of Our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Contains An Explanatory Paragraph Questioning Our Ability To Continue As A Going Concern. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our consolidated financial statements as of June 30, 2011 and for the years ended June 30, 2011 and 2010 and for the period July 1, 2002 (inception of exploration stage) through June 30, 2011 includes an explanatory paragraph questioning our ability to continue as a going concern. This paragraph indicates that we have not yet commenced revenue producing operations and have a retained deficit of CDN$31,301,000 which could raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. 48 We Are A Small Operation And Do Not Have Significant Capital. Because we will have limited working capital, we must limit our exploration. If we are unable to raise the capital required to undertake adequate exploration, we may not find gold or other commercial minerals even though our property may contain gold or other commercial minerals. If we do not find gold or other commercial minerals we may be forced to cease operations and you may lose your entire investment. We May Not Find Any Ore Reserves That Are Economical If we are unable to raise the required capital or we do not find gold or other commercial minerals on the properties or we cannot remove the gold or other commercial minerals discovered economically, we may have to look for other mineral rights on other properties in Canada or other parts of the world. Alternatively, we may cease operations altogether and you may lose your entire investment. Weather Interruptions In Nunavut May Affect And Delay Our Proposed Exploration Operations. We can only work above ground at our mineral claims in Nunavut, Canada from late May until early October and from mid-December to March of each year. Once we are able to work underground, we plan to conduct our exploration year round, however, it is possible that snow or rain could cause roads leading to our claims to be impassible. This could impair our ability to meet our objectives and may increase our costs beyond our ability, if any, to secure financing, which would adversely affect the value of your investment and our ability to carry on business. If Our Officers And Directors Stopped Working For Us, We Would Be Adversely Impacted. None of our executive officers or directors works for us on a full-time basis other than Mr. Grant Ewing who is employed on a full time basis as the president of Acadian. There are no proposals or definitive arrangements to compensate our officers and directors or to engage them on a full-time basis. They each rely on other business activities to support themselves. They each have a conflict of interest in that they are officers and directors of other companies. You must rely on their skills and experience in order for us to reach our objective. We have no employment agreements or key man life insurance policy on any of them. The loss of some or all of these officers and directors could adversely affect our ability to carry on business and could cause you to lose part or all of your investment. We Could Encounter Delays Due To Regulatory And Permitting Delays. We could face delays in obtaining mining permits and environmental permits. Such delays could jeopardize financing, if any, in which case we would have to delay or abandon work on the properties. Gold Price Fluctuations. If we are successful in developing a gold ore reserve, our ability to raise the money to put it into production and operate it at a profit will be dependant on the then existing market price of gold. Declines in the market prices of gold may render reserves containing relatively low grades of ore uneconomic to exploit, and we may be required to discontinue exploration, development or mining on the properties, or write down our assets. If the price of gold is too low we will not be able to raise the money or produce any revenue. We cannot predict the future market price of gold. A sustained decline in the market price of gold could cause a reduction in the value of your investment and you may lose all or part of your investment. 49 There Are Uncertainties Inherent In The Estimation Of Gold Or Other Mineral Reserves. Based upon our preliminary study of the properties we believe that the potential for discovering gold reserves exists, but we have not identified such gold reserves and we are not able to estimate the probability of finding recoverable gold ore. Such estimates cannot be calculated from the current available information. Reserve estimates, including the economic recovery of gold ore, will require us to make assumptions about recovery costs and gold market prices. Reserve estimation is, by its nature, an imprecise and subjective process and the accuracy of such estimates is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation, judgment and experience. The economic feasibility of the properties will be based upon our estimates of the size and grade of ore reserves, metallurgical recoveries, production rates, capital and operating costs, and the future price of gold. If such estimates are incorrect or vary substantially it could affect our ability to develop an economical mine and would reduce the value of your investment. If We Define An Economic Ore Reserve And Achieve Production, It Will Decline In The Future. An Ore Reserve Is A Wasting Asset. Our future ore reserve and production, if any, will decline as a result of the exhaustion of reserves and possible closure of any mine that might be developed. Eventually, at some unknown time in the future, all of the economically extractable ore will be removed from the properties, and there will be no ore remaining. This is called depletion of reserves. Ultimately, we must acquire or operate other properties in order to continue as an ongoing business. Our success in continuing to develop reserves, if any, will affect the value of your investment. There Are Significant Risks Associated With Mining Activities. The mining business is generally subject to risks and hazards, including quantity of production, quality of the ore, environmental hazards, industrial accidents, the encountering of unusual or unexpected geological formations, cave-ins, flooding, earthquakes and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. These occurrences could result in damage to, or destruction of, our mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage, reduced production and delays in mining, asset write-downs, monetary losses and possible legal liability. We could incur significant costs that could adversely affect our results of operation. Insurance fully covering many environmental risks (including potential liability for pollution or other hazards as a result of disposal of waste products occurring from exploration and production) is not generally available to us or to other companies in the industry. What liability insurance we carry may not be adequate to cover any claim. We Are Subject To Significant Environmental And Other Governmental Regulations That Can Require Substantial Capital Expenditure, And Can Be Time-Consuming. We are required to comply with various Canadian laws and regulations pertaining to exploration, development and the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, all of which can increase the costs and time required to attain operations. We will have to obtain exploration, development and environmental permits, licenses or approvals that may be required for our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining, if required, a permit to commence exploration, development and operation, or that such permit can be obtained in a timely basis. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining the required permits it may adversely affect our ability to carry on business and cause you to lose part or all of your investment. Mining Accidents Or Other Adverse Events At Our Property Could Reduce Our Production Levels. If and when we reach production it may fall below estimated levels as a result of mining accidents, cave-ins or flooding on the properties. In addition, production may be unexpectedly reduced if, during the course of mining, unfavorable ground conditions or seismic activity are encountered, ore grades are lower than expected, or the physical or metallurgical characteristics of the ore are less amenable to mining or processing than expected. The happening of these types of events would reduce our profitably or could cause us to cease operations which would cause you to lose part or all of your investment. 50 The acquisition of gold mineral properties is subject to substantial competition. If we must pursue alternative properties, companies with greater financial resources, larger staffs, more experience, and more equipment for exploration and development may be in a better position than us to compete for properties. We may have to undertake greater risks than more established companies in order to compete which could affect the value of your investment. We Are Substantially Dependent Upon AXIS To Carry Out Our Activities We are substantially dependent upon AXIS for our senior management, financial and accounting, corporate legal and other corporate headquarters functions. For example, each of our officers is employed by AXIS and, as such, is required by AXIS to devote substantial amounts of time to the business and affairs of the other stockholders of AXIS. We are one of ten affiliated companies. Each of the companies has some common Directors, officers and shareholders. In addition, each of the companies is substantially dependent upon AXIS for its senior management and certain mining and exploration staff. A number of arrangements and transactions have been entered into from time to time between such companies. Currently, there are no material arrangements or planned transactions between the Company and any of the other affiliated companies other than AXIS, except that one of these companies, Northern Capital Resources Corp, is our principal stockholder. However, it is possible we may enter into such transactions in the future which could present conflicts of interest. In addition, there may be conflicts among the Company and the other companies that AXIS provides services to with respect to access to executive and administrative personnel and other resources. Historically, AXIS has allocated corporate opportunities to each of the companies engaged in the exploration and mining industry after considering the location of each of the companies’ operations and the type of commodity for which each company explores within its geographic region. At present, there are no conflicts among the Company and the other nine companies with respect to the principal geographic areas in which they operate and/or the principal commodities that they are searching for. Pursuant to a services agreement, AXIS provides us with office facilities, administrative personnel and services, management and geological staff and services. No fixed fee is set in the agreement and we are required to reimburse AXIS for any direct costs incurred by AXIS for us. In addition, we pay a proportion of AXIS indirect costs based on a measure of our utilization of the facilities and activities of AXIS plus a service fee of not more than 15% of the direct and indirect costs. AXIS has charged us a service fee of 15% for this fiscal year. This service agreement may be terminated by us or AXIS on 60 days’ notice. See “Item 13 - Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions.” Future Sales of Common Stock Could Depress The Price Of Our Common Stock Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933 or otherwise by certain stockholders could have a material adverse impact on the market price for the common stock at the time. There are presently 56,179,096 outstanding shares of our common stock held by stockholders which are deemed “restricted securities” as defined by Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Under certain circumstances, these shares may be sold without registration pursuant to the provisions of Rule 144. In general, under rule 144, a person (or persons whose shares are aggregated) who has satisfied a six-month holding period and who is not an affiliate of the Company may sell restricted securities without limitation as long as the Company is current in its SEC reports. A person who is an affiliate of the Company may sell within any three-month period a number of restricted securities which does not exceed the greater of one (1%) percent of the shares outstanding or the average weekly trading volume during the four calendar weeks preceding the notice of sale required by Rule 144. In addition, Rule 144 permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of restricted securities by a non-affiliate without any limitations after a one-year holding period. Any sales of shares by stockholders pursuant to Rule 144 may have a depressive effect on the price of our Common stock. 51 Our Common Stock Is Traded Over the Counter, Which May Deprive Stockholders Of The Full Value Of Their Shares Our common stock is quoted via the Over The Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB). As such, our common stock may have fewer market makers, lower trading volumes and larger spreads between bid and asked prices than securities listed on an exchange such as the New York Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ Stock Market. These factors may result in higher price volatility and less market liquidity for the common stock. A Low Market Price May Severely Limit The Potential Market For Our Common Stock Our common stock is currently trading at a price substantially below $5.00 per share, subjecting trading in the stock to certain SEC rules requiring additional disclosures by broker-dealers. These rules generally apply to any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions (a “penny stock”). Such rules require the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and institutional or wealthy investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to the broker-dealer, current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. Such information must be provided to the customer orally or in writing before or with the written confirmation of trade sent to the customer. Monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stock. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock. The Market Price Of Your Shares Will Be Volatile. The stock market price of gold mining exploration companies like us has been volatile. Securities markets may experience price and volume volatility. The market price of our stock may experience wide fluctuations that could be unrelated to our financial and operating results. Such volatility or fluctuations could adversely affect your ability to sell your shares and the value you might receive for those shares. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 