ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a great deal of risk. Careful consideration should be made of the following factors as well as other information included in this annual report on Form 10-k before deciding to purchase our common stock. You should pay particular attention to the fact that we conduct a majority of our operations in China and are governed by a legal and regulatory environment that in some respects differs significantly from the environment that may prevail in other countries. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected materially and adversely by any or all of these risks. THE FOLLOWING MATTERS MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR PROSPECTS, FINANCIAL OR OTHERWISE. REFERENCE TO THIS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT IN THE CONTEXT OF A FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT OR STATEMENTS SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A STATEMENT THAT ANY ONE OR MORE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS MAY CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE IN SUCH FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT OR STATEMENTS. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS The adoption of new laws or changes to or the application of existing laws relating to Internet commerce may affect the growth of our business. In addition to regulations pertaining specifically to online gaming, we may become subject to any number of laws and regulations that may be adopted with respect to the Internet and electronic commerce. New laws and regulations that address issues such as user privacy, pricing, online content regulation, taxation, advertising, intellectual property, information security, and the characteristics and quality of online products and services may be enacted. As well, current laws, which predate or are incompatible with the Internet and electronic commerce, may be applied and enforced in a manner that restricts the electronic commerce market. The application of such pre-existing laws regulating communications or commerce in the context of the Internet and electronic commerce is uncertain. Moreover, it may take years to determine the extent to which existing laws relating to issues such as intellectual property ownership and infringement, libel and personal privacy are applicable to the Internet. The adoption of new laws or regulations relating to the Internet, or particular applications or interpretations of existing laws, could decrease the growth in the use of the Internet, decrease the demand for our products and services, increase our cost of doing business or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. 18 Our business has been and may continue to be materially affected by changes to, or interpretation of, government regulation around the world that may apply to online gaming. The Company and our licensees are subject to applicable laws in the jurisdictions in which they operate. Our licensees hold government licenses to operate Internet gaming sites in the Philippines. Some jurisdictions have introduced regulations attempting to restrict or prohibit Internet gaming, while other jurisdictions have taken the position that Internet gaming is legal and have adopted or are in the process of considering legislation to regulate Internet gaming. As companies and consumers involved in Internet gaming are located around the globe, including our licensees and their players, there is uncertainty regarding which government has authority to regulate or legislate the industry. On October 13, 2006, the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act (“UIGEA”) legislation designed to prohibit Internet gaming was enacted in the United States (“U.S.”), and similar legislation may be adopted in other jurisdictions. Future government actions may have a material impact on our operations and financial results. There is a risk that governmental authorities may view us or our licensees as having violated the local law of their end users, despite the Company’s requirement that each licensee is licensed to operate an Internet gaming business by the governmental authority of the country in which the gaming servers associated with the licensees’ gaming operations are located. Therefore, there is a risk that civil and criminal proceedings, including class actions brought by or on behalf of public entities or private individuals, could be initiated against us, our licensees, Internet service providers, credit card processors, advertisers and others involved in the Internet gaming industry and could involve substantial litigation expense, penalties, fines, injunctions or other remedies or restrictions being imposed upon us or our licensees or others while diverting the attention of our key executives. Such proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that legislation prohibiting Internet gaming or regulating various aspects of Internet gaming or the Internet gaming industry will not be proposed and passed in potentially relevant jurisdictions. The burden of compliance with any such legislation may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act (“UIGEA”), enacted in the USA in October 2006, made it illegal to accept any funds connected with unlawful Internet gaming. Although the Company historically derived a majority of its product and licensing revenues from sources outside of the U.S., the UIGEA may still impact the business of the company. We are subject to risks associated with a significant portion of our business conducted in non-North American jurisdictions. As companies and consumers involved in Internet gaming, including the players of our licensees, are located around the globe, there is uncertainty regarding exactly which government has jurisdiction or authority to regulate or legislate with respect to various aspects of the industry. The uncertainty surrounding the regulation of Internet gaming in the various jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. There are certain difficulties and risks inherent in doing business internationally, including the burden of complying with multiple and conflicting regulatory requirements, foreign exchange controls, potential restrictions or tariffs on gaming activities that may be imposed, potentially adverse tax consequences and tax risks, and changes in the political and economic stability, regulatory and taxation structures, and the interpretation thereof, of jurisdictions in which we, our subsidiaries and our licensees operate, and in which our licensees’ customers are located, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to sustain or increase revenue derived from international operations or that we will be able to penetrate linguistic, cultural or other barriers to new foreign markets. 19 Our financial results are reported in U.S. currency, which is subject to fluctuations in respect of the currencies of the countries in which we operate, including Hong Kong Dollars (HKD), Macau Pataca (MOP), China Yuan or Renminbi (CNY or RMB), Philippine Peso (PHP), Malaysian Ringgit (MYR), New Taiwan Dollar (NT$ or TWD), Thai Baht (THB), Vietnamese Dong (VND), Cambodia Riel (KHR), Lao Kip (LAK), Euros, and US Dollars. Accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange rate of world currencies could have a positive or negative effect on our reported results. We may utilize a hedging program from time to time and/or take advantage of the natural hedge in having operations in multiple currencies to mitigate a portion of our currency risks, but there can be no assurance that we will not experience currency losses in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. Our business depends on the reliability of the infrastructure that supports the Internet and the viability of the Internet. The growth of Internet usage has caused frequent interruptions and delays in processing and transmitting data over the Internet. There can be no assurance that the Internet infrastructure or the Company’s own network systems will continue to be able to support the demands placed on it by the continued growth of the Internet, the overall online gaming industry or that of our customers. The Internet’s viability could be affected if the necessary infrastructure is not sufficient, or if other technologies and technological devices eclipse the Internet as a viable channel. End-users of our software depend on Internet Service Providers (“ISPs”), online service providers and our system infrastructure for access to the Internet gaming sites operated by our licensees. Many of these services have experienced service outages in the past and could experience service outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures, stability or interruption. Our licensees may lose customers as a result of delays or interruption in service, including delays or interruptions relating to high volumes of traffic or technological problems. As a result, we may not be able to meet a level of service that we have contracted for, and we may be in breach of our contractual commitments, which could materially adversely affect our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. Internet gaming is a developing industry and therefore, we do not know if the market will continue to develop and our products and services will continue to be in demand. The Internet gaming industry continues to evolve rapidly and is characterized by an increasing number of market entrants. The demand and acceptance for new products and services are subject to a level of uncertainty and growing competition, and if our production services do not continue to receive market acceptance, our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Internet gaming software and electronic commerce services are subject to security risks, which may inhibit the growth of the industry and the acceptance of our products and services. Our Internet gaming software and electronic commerce services are reliant on technologies and network systems to securely handle transactions and user information over the Internet, which may be vulnerable to system intrusions, unauthorized access or manipulation. As users become increasingly sophisticated and devise new ways to commit fraud, our security and network systems may be tested and subject to attack. We have experienced such system attacks in the past and implemented measures to protect against these intrusions. However, there is no assurance that all such intrusions or attacks will or can be prevented in the future, and any system intrusion/attack may cause a delay, interruption or financial loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue, operating results and financial condition. We may be vulnerable to delays or interruptions due to our reliance on other parties. Our electronic commerce product relies on ISPs to allow our licensees’ customers and servers to communicate with each other. If ISPs experience service interruptions, it may prevent communication over the Internet and impair our ability to carry on business. In addition, our ability to process e-commerce transactions depends on bank processing and credit card systems. In order to prepare for system problems, we are strengthening and enhancing our current facilities and the capability of our system infrastructure and support. Nevertheless, any system failure as a result of reliance on third parties, including network, software or hardware failure, which causes a delay or interruption in our e-commerce services could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. We face growing competition from known competitors and new entrants in the Internet gaming, e-commerce and broader entertainment industries. Customers and licensees of our software compete with existing and established recreational services and products, in addition to other forms of entertainment. Our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to enhance our products and services to keep pace with technological developments, respond to evolving customer requirements and achieve continued market acceptance. 20 We compete with a number of public and private companies, which provide electronic commerce and/or Internet gaming software. In addition to known current competitors, traditional land-based casino operators and other entities, many of which have significant financial resources, an entrenched position in the market and name-brand recognition, may provide Internet gaming services in the future, and thus become our competitors. As well, such companies may be able to require that their own software, rather than the software of others, including our gaming software or our e-cash systems and support, be used in connection with their payment mechanisms. The barriers to entry into most Internet markets are relatively low, making them accessible to a large number of entities and individuals. We believe the principal competitive factors in our industry that create certain barriers to entry include reputation, technology, financial stability and resources, proven track record of successful operations, critical mass (particularly relating to online poker), regulatory compliance, independent oversight and transparency of business practices. While these barriers will limit those able to enter or compete effectively in the market, it is likely that new competitors will be established in the future, in addition to our known current competitors. Increased competition from current and future competitors has and may in the future result in price reductions and reduced margins, or may result in the loss of our market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. If a third-party asserts that we are infringing its intellectual property, whether successful or not, it could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses, which could harm our business. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability not to infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities and individuals, own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our industry. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may continue to claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. Third-parties have in the past sent us correspondence regarding their intellectual property and in the future we may receive claims that our products infringe or violate their intellectual property rights. Furthermore, we may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some or all of our technology or products. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or royalty payments, prevent us from selling our products, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. In addition, we may decide to pay substantial settlement costs and/or licensing fees in connection with any claim or litigation, whether or not successfully asserted against us. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. As such, the outcome of such matters cannot be predicted with certainty, and could have a material adverse affect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. We may fail to protect our intellectual property and thereby reduce our competitive position. We rely on a combination of laws and contractual provisions to establish and protect our rights in our software and proprietary technology. We believe that our competitive position is dependent in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We generally enter into non-disclosure and invention agreements with employees, licensees, consultants and customers, and historically have restricted access to our software products' source codes. We regard our source codes as proprietary information, and attempt to protect the source code versions of our products as trade secrets and unpublished copyrighted works. Despite our precautions and measures implemented to protect against such attempts, unauthorized parties may have or could in the future copy or otherwise reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Our Company has patent and trademarks in certain jurisdictions and is in the process of applying for further trademark registrations and patents, which may provide such protection in relevant jurisdictions. However, there can be no assurance that this will be sufficient to fully protect our proprietary technology. In addition, certain provisions of our license agreements, including provisions protecting against unauthorized use, transfer and disclosure, may be found to be unenforceable in certain jurisdictions. 21 We believe that patent, trademark, copyright and other legal protections are less significant to our success than other factors such as the knowledge, ability and experience of our personnel, new product and service developments, frequent product enhancements, customer service and ongoing product support. We also have a proprietary interest in our name. The names The names “PacificNet”, “iMobile”, “PACT” and “PacificNet Games” have become known in the Internet and gaming industry. Accordingly, our competitive position could be affected if our name was misappropriated and our reputation in any way compromised. There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our technology or independent development by others of technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Any misappropriation of our name, technology or development of competitive technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. Due to the complex, sophisticated and global nature of the business, there can be no assurance that there has been no breach of third parties’ intellectual property rights by the Company, and any adverse judgment in this regard could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. We may fail to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404 have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of resources. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires (i) management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and (ii) a statement by management that its independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting, in connection with the filing of the annual report on Form 10-K for each fiscal year. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our securities shares. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our Common Shares has experienced significant fluctuation and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price of our Common Shares may be adversely affected by various factors, such as proposed Internet gaming legislation or enforcement of existing laws, the loss of a customer, the announcement of new products or enhancements, innovation and technological changes, quarterly variations in revenue and results of operations, changes in earnings estimates by financial analysts, speculation in the press or analyst community and general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries, including the Internet and gaming. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These company-specific or broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price for our Common Shares. Anti-gaming or anti-online gaming legislation could also impact our ability to remain listed. There is no assurance that there will always be a liquid market for our shares. Although our Common Shares are listed and traded on the NASDAQ Market, there may not be a liquid market in our Common Shares. Company-specific or broader market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of the Common Shares, and there can be no assurance that there will continue to be an active market for these securities. 22 Growth in revenues may be slow as a result of the disposition of our legacy business and the transition to gaming business operations Although our revenues have grown rapidly in past years, primarily as a result of our acquisition activity, we cannot assure investors that we will maintain our profitability or that we will not incur net losses in the future as a result of recent dispositions. Furthermore, we expect that our operating expenses will increase as we continue to move the focus of our business to the gaming industry. Any significant failure to realize anticipated revenue growth could result in significant operating losses. We will continue to encounter risks and difficulties in implementing our business model, including our potential failure to: ● Increase awareness of our brands, protect our reputation and develop customer loyalty ● Manage our expanding operations and service offerings, including the integration of any future acquisitions ● Maintain adequate control of our expenses ● Anticipate and adapt to changing conditions in the markets in which we operate as well as the impact of any changes in government regulation, mergers and acquisitions involving our competitors, technological developments and other significant competitive and market dynamics If we are not successful in addressing any or all of these risks, our business may be materially and adversely affected. The acquisition of new businesses is costly and such acquisitions may not enhance our financial condition. Our growth strategy is to acquire companies and identify and acquire assets and technologies from businesses in greater China that have services, products, technologies, industry specializations or geographic coverage that extend or complement our existing business. The process to undertake a potential acquisition is time-consuming and costly. We expend significant resources to undertake business, financial and legal due diligence on our potential acquisition target and there is no guarantee that we will acquire the company after completing due diligence. Any future acquisitions will be subject to a number of challenges, including: • Diversion of management time and resources and the potential disruption of our ongoing business • Difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies • Potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses • Difficulty of retaining key alliances on attractive terms with partners and suppliers • Difficulty of retaining and recruiting key personnel and maintaining employee morale Our acquisitions could result in the use of substantial amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, significant amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets and exposure to undisclosed or potential liabilities of acquired companies. To the extent that the goodwill arising from the acquisitions carried on the financial statements do not pass the annual goodwill impairment test, excess goodwill will be charged to future earnings. We intend to operate each of our acquired businesses on a standalone basis. We do not intend to integrate the information or communications systems, management, or other aspects of the businesses we acquire. If we integrated the businesses, we might be able to reduce expenses by eliminating duplicative personnel, facilities, or technology and other costs. In addition, facilities and technology integration might make inter-company communications and transactions more efficient. By declining to integrate the acquired businesses, we might forego opportunities to operate more profitably. Furthermore, our decision not to integrate these businesses might result in difficulties in evaluating the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, which could complicate compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 23 Because we do not have employment agreements with management of the acquired companies, our business operations might be interrupted if they were to resign. As part of our acquisition strategy, we do not use our own employees or members of our management team to operate the acquired companies. Key management at these companies has been in place for several years and has established solid relationships with their customers. Competition in our industry for executive-level personnel is strong and we can make no assurance that we will be able to retain the highly effective executive employees. Although we provide incentives to management to stay with the acquired business, we have not entered into employment agreements with them. If such key persons were to resign we might face impairment of relationships with remaining employees or customers, which might result in further resignation by employees, and might cause long-term clients to terminate their relationship with us. Furthermore, we have not entered into any non-competition and confidentiality agreements with these employees and management. Due to the limited enforceability of these types of agreements in China, we face the risk that employees of the acquired subsidiaries might divulge our software and other protected intellectual property secrets to competitors. We may not be able to attract or retain the management or employees necessary to remain competitive in our industries. Tony Tong, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Victor Tong, our President, are essential to our ability to continue to grow through acquisitions. Tong and Tong have established relationships within our industry. Their business contacts have been critical in identifying, and negotiating with acquisition candidates and in developing and expanding our gaming operations. Our future success depends on the retention and continued contributions of our key management, finance, marketing, and staff personnel, many of whom would be difficult or impossible to replace. Our success is also tied to our ability to recruit additional key personnel in the future. We may not be able to retain our current personnel or recruit additional key personnel required. The loss of services of any of our personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If either of them were to leave our employ, our growth strategy might be hindered, which could limit our ability to increase revenue. The establishment and expansion of international operations require significant management attention. All of our current, as well as any anticipated future revenue, are or are expected to be mainly derived from Asia. Our international operations are subject to risks, including the following, which, if not planned and managed properly, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results: ● Legal uncertainties or unanticipated changes regarding regulatory requirements, liability, export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers ● Longer customer payment cycles and greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable ● Uncertainties of laws and enforcement relating to the protection of intellectual property and potentially uncertain or adverse tax consequences Our operations could be curtailed if we are unable to obtain required additional financing. Since inception our investments and operations primarily have been financed through sales of our common stock. In the future we may need to raise additional funds through public or private financing, which may include the sale of equity securities, including securities convertible into our common stock. The issuance of these equity securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. If we are unable to raise capital when needed, our business growth strategy may be slowed down, which could severely limit our ability to increase revenue. Fluctuations in the value of the Hong Kong Dollar or RMB relative to foreign currencies could affect our operating results. We have historically conducted transactions with customers outside the United States in United States dollars. Payroll and other costs of foreign operations are payable in foreign currencies, primarily Hong Kong dollars and Chinese Renminbi.. To the extent future revenue is denominated in foreign currencies, we would be subject to increased risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations that could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The value of Hong Kong dollars and Chinese Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by changes in the PRC's political and economic conditions. As our operations are primarily in Asia, any significant revaluation of Hong Kong dollars or the Chinese Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenue and financial condition. For example, we may need to convert U.S. dollars into Hong Kong dollars or Chinese Renminbi as appreciation of either currency against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on results of our business, financial condition and operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Hong Kong dollars or Chinese Renminbi into U.S. dollars for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against either currency, the U.S. dollar equivalent of the respective currency we convert would be reduced. To date, we have not engaged in any hedging transactions in connection with our international operations. 24 We have never paid cash dividends and are not likely to do so in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future but will review this policy as circumstances dictate. RISKS RELATED TO OUR GAMING BUSINESS If we fail to keep pace with rapid innovations in product design and related marketing strategies, or if we are unable to quickly adapt our development and manufacturing processes to release innovative products or systems, our business could be negatively impacted. Our future success depends to a large extent upon our ability to continue to rapidly design and market technologically sophisticated and entertaining products that achieve high levels of player acceptance. Our revenues depend on the earning power and life span of our games. Newer game themes tend to have a shorter life span than more legacy game themes, and as a result, we face pressure to design and deploy successful game themes to maintain our revenue stream and to remain competitive. Our ability to develop new and innovative products could be adversely affected by an inability to roll out new games, services or systems on schedule as a result of delays in connection with regulatory product approval in the applicable jurisdictions, or otherwise. Our future success also depends upon our ability to adapt our manufacturing capabilities and processes to meet the demands of producing new and innovative products. Because our newer products are generally more technologically sophisticated than those we have produced in the past, we must continually refine our production capabilities to meet the needs of continuing product innovation. In addition, the shorter lifespan of newer products means that we must update our production capabilities more frequently and rapidly than in the past. If we cannot adapt our manufacturing infrastructure to meet the needs of our product innovations, or if we are unable to make upgrades to our production capacity in a timely manner, our business could be negatively impacted. If the current popularity and acceptance of gaming declines, our business plans and operation would be negatively impacted. The gaming industry can be affected by public opinion of gaming. Our success depends on continually developing and successfully marketing new games and gaming machines with strong and sustained player appeal. A new game or gaming machine will be accepted by casino operators only if we can show that it is likely to produce more revenues to the operator than competitors’ products. Gaming machines can be installed in casinos on a trial basis, and only after a successful trial period are the machines purchased by the casinos. Participation gaming machines are replaced by casino operators if the gaming machines do not meet and sustain revenue and profitability expectations. Therefore, these gaming machines are particularly susceptible to pressure from competitors, declining popularity, changes in economic conditions and increased taxation and are at risk of replacement by the casinos, which would end our recurring revenues from these machines. We cannot assure you that the new products that we introduce will achieve any significant degree of market acceptance or that the acceptance will be sustained for any meaningful period. In the event that there is a decline in public acceptance of gaming, either through unfavorable legislation affecting the introduction of gaming into emerging markets, or through legislative and regulatory changes, including tax increases, in existing gaming markets, our ability to continue to sell and lease our gaming machines in those markets and jurisdictions would be adversely affected. 25 The gaming industry is intensely competitive. We face competition from a number of companies, some of which have greater resources, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business could be negatively impacted. Competition among gaming technology developers is based on, among other things, competitive pricing and financing terms made available to customers, appeal of game themes and features to the end player and product quality, features and functionality of hardware and software. The gaming technology provider market includes leading technology providers such as IGT, Aristocrat, WMS, Bally Gaming and Systems, Novomatic, Aruze, Konami, Progressive Gaming Corporation, DEQ, CryptoLogic and Gigamedia comprising the primary competition. The competition is intense due to the number of providers, as well as the limited number of casino operators and jurisdictions in which they operate. Pricing, product feature and function, accuracy and reliability are amongst the factors in determining a provider’s success in selling its system. Certain of these competitors have access to greater financial, marketing and product development resources than we do, and as a result, may be better positioned to compete in the marketplace. In addition, new competitors may enter our key markets. Obtaining space and favorable placement on casino gaming floors is a competitive factor in our industry. Competitors with a larger installed base of gaming machines than ours have an advantage in retaining the most space and best positions in casinos. These competitors may also have the advantage of being able to convert their installed machines to newer models in order to maintain their share of casino floor space. In addition, some of our competitors have developed and sell or otherwise provide to customers centralized player tracking and accounting systems which allow operators to accumulate accounting and performance data about the operation of gaming machines. We do not offer a centralized player tracking and accounting system and that has put us at a competitive disadvantage. The unpredictable growth of non−legacy gaming markets may affect our business and prospects. The continued growth of non−legacy gaming markets for gaming machines and systems depends heavily on the public’s acceptance of gaming in these markets, as well as the ongoing development of the regulatory approval process by national and local governmental authorities. A portion of our growth is directly tied to our ability to access these new markets. We cannot predict which new jurisdictions or markets, if any, will approve the operation of electronic gaming machines, the timing of any such approval, the public’s acceptance of our gaming machines in these markets or our market share or profitability in these markets. Any decline in the popularity of our gaming products with players, or if we are unsuccessful in developing new products, services or systems, will have a negative impact on our revenues. The gaming industry is heavily regulated and changes in regulation by gaming authorities may adversely impact our ability to operate the business. The manufacture and distribution of gaming machines, development of systems and the conduct of gaming operations are subject to extensive national, provincial local and foreign regulation by various gaming authorities. Our ability to continue to operate in certain jurisdictions could be adversely affected by: ● Unfavorable public referendums ● Unfavorable legislation affecting or directed at manufacturers or gaming operators, such as referendums to increase taxes on gaming revenues ● Adverse changes in, or finding of non-compliance with, applicable governmental gaming regulations ● Delays in approvals from regulatory agencies ● Limitations, conditioning, suspension or revocation of any of our gaming licenses ● Unfavorable determinations or challenges of suitability by gaming regulatory authorities with respect to our officers, directors, major stockholders or key personnel Although the laws, rules and regulations of the various jurisdictions in which we operate vary in their technical requirements, virtually all jurisdictions require licenses, permits, qualification documentation, including evidence of integrity and financial stability, and other forms of approval to engage in gaming operations or the manufacture and distribution of gaming machines. Delays in, amendments to, or repeals of legislation approving gaming in jurisdictions in which we operate or plan to commence operations, or delays in approvals of our customers’ operations, may adversely affect our operations 26 Our officers, directors, major stockholders and key personnel are also subject to significant regulatory scrutiny. In the event that gaming or governmental authorities determine that any person is unsuitable to act in such capacity with respect to the Company, we could be required to terminate our relationship with such person. To our knowledge, the Company and our key personnel have obtained, or applied for, all government licenses, registrations, findings of suitability, permits and approvals necessary to conduct their respective activities in the various jurisdictions that we operate. However, there can be no assurance those licenses, registrations, findings of suitability, permits or approvals will be renewed in the future, or that new forms of approval necessary to operate in emerging or existing markets will be granted. Furthermore, some jurisdictions require gaming manufacturers to obtain government approval before engaging in some transactions, such as business combinations, reorganizations, borrowings, stock offerings and repurchases. Obtaining licenses and approvals can be time consuming and costly. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary registrations, licenses, permits, approvals or findings of suitability or that the approval process will not result in delays or changes to our business plans. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our intellectual property protections may be insufficient to properly safeguard our technology. We rely on a combination of patent and other technical security measures to protect our products and we intend to file patents for protection of such technologies. Our success may depend in part on our ability to obtain trademark protection for the names or symbols under which we market our products and to obtain copyright protection and patent protection for our proprietary software and other game innovations. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees regarding our trade secrets and proprietary information. We cannot assure that we will be able to build and maintain goodwill in our trademarks or obtain trademark or patent protection, that any trademark, copyright or issued patent will provide competitive advantages for us or that our intellectual properties will not be successfully challenged or circumvented by competitors. Furthermore, despite various confidentiality agreements and other trade secret protections, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how could become known to, or independently developed by, competitors. Notwithstanding these safeguards, our competitors may still be able to obtain our technology or to imitate our products. Furthermore, others may independently develop products similar or superior to ours. Expenses incurred with respect to monitoring, protecting and defending our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. Competitors and other third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights, or may allege that we have infringed on their intellectual property rights. Monitoring infringement on and/or misappropriation of intellectual property can be difficult and expensive and we may not be able to detect any infringement on or misappropriation of our proprietary rights. We may also incur significant litigation expenses protecting our intellectual property or defending our use of intellectual property, reducing our ability to fund product initiatives. These expenses could have an adverse effect on our future cash flow and results of operations. Litigation can also divert management focus from running the day-to-day operations of the business. There can be no assurances that certain of our products, including those with currently pending patent applications, will not be determined to have infringed upon an existing third party patent. The intellectual property rights of others may prevent us from developing new products or entering new markets. The gaming industry is characterized by the rapid development of new technologies, our success depends in part on our ability to continually adapt our products and systems to incorporate new technologies and to expand into new markets that may be created by new technologies. However, to the extent technologies are protected by the intellectual property rights of others, including our competitors, we may be prevented from introducing products based on these technologies or expanding into new markets created by these technologies. If our products use processes or other subject matter that is claimed under existing patents, or if other companies obtain patents claiming subject matter that we use, those companies may bring infringement actions against us. We might then be forced to discontinue such products or be required to obtain licenses from the company holding the patent, if it is willing to give us a license, to develop, manufacture or market our products. We also might then be limited in our ability to market new products. We might also be found liable for treble damage claims relating to past use of the patented subject matter if the infringement is found to be willful. 27 If the intellectual property rights of others prevent us from taking advantage of innovative technologies, our financial condition, operating results or prospects may be harmed. The discontinuation or limitation of any existing licenses from third parties could adversely affect our business. Some of our most popular games and gaming machine features, including certain branded games and ticket-in, ticket-out cashless gaming functionality, are based on trademarks and other intellectual properties licensed from third parties. Our future success may depend upon our ability to obtain, retain and/or expand licenses for additional popular intellectual properties in a competitive market. In the event that we cannot renew and/or expand this or other existing licenses, we may be required to discontinue the games using the licensed technology or bearing the licensed marks, or limit our use of such items. Our gaming technology, particularly our wide area progressive networks and centrally determined systems, may experience losses due to technical difficulties or fraudulent activities. Our success depends on our ability to avoid, detect, replicate and correct software and hardware errors and fraudulent manipulation of our gaming machines and associated software. To the extent any of our gaming machines or software experience errors or fraudulent manipulation, our customers may replace our products and services with those of our competitors. In addition, the occurrence of errors in, or fraudulent manipulation of, our gaming machines or software may give rise to claims for lost revenues and related litigation by our customers and may subject us to investigation or other action by gaming regulatory authorities, including suspension or revocation of our gaming licenses or disciplinary action. Additionally, in the event of such issues with our gaming machines or software, substantial engineering and marketing resources may be diverted from other areas to rectify the problem. Our business is subject to other economic, market, and regulatory risks: We face risks associated with doing business in international markets related to political and economic instability and related foreign currency fluctuations. Unstable governments and changes in current legislation may affect the gaming market with respect to gaming regulation, taxation, and the legality of gaming in some markets, as we experienced with the Russian market in fiscal 2007. Customer financing is becoming an increasing prevalent component of the sales process and therefore increases business risk of non-payment, especially in emerging markets. In some instances, our gaming machines are installed in casinos on a trial basis, and only after a successful trial period are the machines purchased by the customers. These customer financing arrangements delay our receipt of cash and can negatively impact our ability to enforce our rights upon default if the customer is from a foreign country. Our competitors have begun to provide free game theme conversions to customers in connection with product sales. While we intend to continue to charge our customers for game theme conversions including CPU-NXT upgrade kits, we cannot be sure that competitive pressure will not cause us to increase the number of free game theme conversions we offer to our customers, which would decrease the revenue we expect to receive for game theme conversions. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CRM AND TELECOM VAS PRODUCTS AND SERVICES A substantial portion of our business depends on mobile telecommunications operators in China and any loss or deterioration of such relationships may result in severe disruptions to our business operations. We rely entirely on the networks and gateways of China Mobile and China Unicom to provide our wireless value-added services. Thus, we face certain risks in conducting our wireless value-added services business. Currently, China Mobile and China Unicom are the only mobile telecommunications operators in China that have platforms for wireless value-added services. Our agreements with them are generally for a period of less than one year and generally do not have automatic renewal provisions. If neither of them is willing to continue to cooperate with us, we will not be able to conduct our existing wireless value-added services business. Furthermore, our agreements with China Mobile and China Unicom are subject to negotiation upon expiration. If any of the mobile telecommunications operators decides to change its content or transmission fees or its share of revenue, or does not comply with the terms of the agreement, our revenue and profitability could be materially adversely affected. 28 Our financial condition and results of operations may be materially affected by the changes in policies or guidelines of the mobile telecommunications operators. The mobile telecommunications operators in China may, from time to time, issue certain operating policies or guidelines, requesting or stating its preference for certain actions to be taken by all wireless value-added service providers using their platforms. Due to our reliance on the mobile telecommunications operators, a significant change in their policies or guidelines may have a material adverse effect on us. For example, some mobile telecommunications operators recently revised their billing policies to request all wireless value-added service providers to confirm the subscription status of those users who have not been active for three months. Such change in policies or guidelines may result in lower revenue or additional operating costs for us, and we cannot assure investors that our financial condition and results of operations will not be materially adversely affected by any policy or guideline change by the mobile telecommunications operators in the future. We may be subject to adverse actions for any breach or perceived breach by us of the policies or guidelines imposed by the mobile telecommunications operator with respect to content provided on or linked through our websites. The mobile telecommunications operators in China may impose policies or guidelines to govern or restrict the content provided by all wireless value-added service providers, including content developed by us or content supplied by others to us. The mobile telecommunications operators from time to time have requested wireless value-added services providers, including us, to remove objectionable content or links to or from websites with certain categories of content, including content that they may deem to be sexually explicit. We aggregate and develop content that we consider attractive to our targeted user base and we cannot assure investors that the mobile telecommunications operators will not from time to time find certain portions of our content to be objectionable. In the case of a breach or perceived breach of such policies or guidelines, the mobile telecommunications operators may require us to reduce or curtail the content on our Internet portal, which may reduce our portal traffic, and the mobile telecommunications operators may have the right to impose monetary fines upon us, or terminate our cooperation with them. In addition, we would be liable to the mobile telecommunications operators for their economic losses pursuant to our agreements with these operators if we were found to be in breach of the policies or guidelines promulgated by them. As a result of the occurrence of any of the above, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our dependence on the substance and timing of the billing systems of the mobile telecommunications operators may require us to estimate portions of our reported revenue for wireless value-added services from time to time. As a result, subsequent adjustments may have to be made to our wireless value-added services revenue in our financial statements. As we do not bill our wireless value-added services users directly, we depend on the billing systems and records of the mobile telecommunications operators to record the volume of our wireless value-added services provided, charge our users through mobile telephone bills and collect payments from our users and pay us. In addition, we do not generally have the ability to independently verify or challenge the accuracy of the billing systems of the mobile telecommunications operators. Our communication products are provided cash-on-delivery, which leaves us vulnerable to theft and employee embezzlement. The purchase of calling cards, SIM cards and other mobile phone products are made with cash. Although there is a low risk that clients will not pay for these services when delivered, our retail stores maintain large sums of money which might make them robbery targets. We also face the risk that employees who collect the cash and others who may be aware that cash is available at these sites might embezzle the money. Theft or embezzlement could have a material adverse effect on the revenue generated and the financial condition of our business operations. Our customers are concentrated in a limited number of industries. Our clients are concentrated primarily in the telecommunications, telemarketing and technology industries, and to a lesser extent, the insurance and financial services industries, where the current trend is to outsource certain CRM and VAS. Our ability to generate revenue depends on the demand for our services in these industries. An economic downturn, or a slowdown or reversal of the tendency in any of these industries to rely on outsourcing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 29 RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH DOING BUSINESS IN GREATER CHINA There are substantial risks associated with doing business in greater China, as set forth in the following risk factors. Our operations and assets in Greater China are subject to significant political and economic uncertainties. Changes in laws and regulations, or their interpretation, or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supply, devaluations of currency or the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under its current leadership, the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance, however, that the Chinese government will continue to pursue these policies, or that it will not significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice. Currency fluctuations and restrictions on currency exchange may adversely affect our business, including limiting our ability to convert Chinese Renminbi into foreign currencies and, if Chinese Renminbi were to decline in value, reducing our revenue in U.S. dollar terms. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and our operations in China and Hong Kong use their respective local currencies as their functional currencies. The majority of our revenue derived and expenses incurred are in Chinese Renminbi with a relatively small amount in Hong Kong dollars and U.S. dollars. We are subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations with respect to any of these currencies. For example, the value of the Renminbi depends to a large extent on Chinese government policies and China's domestic and international economic and political developments, as well as supply and demand in the local market. Since 1994, the official exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi to U.S. dollars has generally been stable and the Renminbi had appreciated slightly against the U.S. dollar. However, on July 21, 2005, the Chinese government changed its policy of pegging the value of Chinese Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, Chinese Renminbi may fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. It is possible that the Chinese government could adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in more significant fluctuation of Chinese Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. We can offer no assurance that Chinese Renminbi will be stable against the U.S. dollar or any other foreign currency. The income statements of our international operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates in each applicable period. To the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currencies denominated transactions results in reduced revenue, operating expenses and net income for our international operations. Similarly, to the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions results in increased revenue, operating expenses and net income for our international operations. We are also exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as we convert the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S dollars in consolidation. If there is a change in foreign currency exchange rates, the conversion of the foreign subsidiaries' financial statements into U.S dollars will lead to a translation gain or loss which is recorded as a component of other comprehensive income. In addition, we have certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the relevant entity's functional currency. Changes in the functional currency value of these assets and liabilities create fluctuations that will lead to a transaction gain or loss. We have not entered into agreements or purchased instruments to hedge our exchange rate risks, although we may do so in the future. The availability and effectiveness of any hedging transaction may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exchange rate risks. Although Chinese governmental policies were introduced in 1996 to allow the convertibility of Chinese Renminbi into foreign currency for current account items, conversion of Chinese Renminbi into foreign exchange for capital items, such as foreign direct investment, loans or securities, requires the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, which is under the authority of the People's Bank of China. These approvals, however, do not guarantee the availability of foreign currency. We cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain all required conversion approvals for our operations or Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose greater restrictions on the convertibility of Chinese Renminbi in the future. Because a significant amount of our future revenue may be in the form of Chinese Renminbi, our inability to obtain the requisite approvals or any future restrictions on currency exchanges could limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in Chinese Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China, or to repay foreign currency obligations, including our debt obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. 30 We are required to obtain licenses to expand our business into mainland China. Our activities must be reviewed and approved by various national and local agencies of the Chinese government before they will issue business licenses to us. There can be no assurance that the current Chinese government, or successors, will continue to approve and renew our licenses. If we are unable to obtain licenses or renewals we will not be able to continue our business operations in mainland China, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have limited legal recourse under PRC law if disputes arise under our contracts with third parties. The Chinese government has enacted some laws and regulations dealing with matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, their experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited, and our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes is unpredictable. If our new business ventures are unsuccessful, or other adverse circumstances arise from these transactions, we face the risk that the parties to these ventures may seek ways to terminate the transactions, or, may hinder or prevent us from accessing important information regarding the financial and business operations of these acquired companies. The resolution of these matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the Chinese government, and forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. Any rights we may have to specific performance, or to seek an injunction under PRC law, in either of these cases, are severely limited, and without a means of recourse by virtue of the Chinese legal system, we may be unable to prevent these situations from occurring. The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in mainland China. If our competitors engage in these practices they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a disadvantage. Although we inform our personnel that such practices are illegal, we cannot assure that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties. PRC laws and regulations restrict foreign investment in China’s telecommunications services industry and substantial uncertainties exist with respect to our contractual agreements with Wanrong-DE and iMobile-DE to uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or futures PRC laws and regulations. Since we are deemed to be foreign persons or foreign funded enterprises under PRC laws and cannot directly invest in telecommunications companies, we operate our IVR, call center and telecom value-added services business in China through operating companies or Variable Interest Entities (VIEs) owned by PRC citizens. We control these companies and operate these businesses through contractual arrangements with the respective operating companies and their individual shareholders, but we have no equity control over these companies. Although we believe we are in compliance with current PRC regulations, we cannot be sure that the PRC government would view these operating arrangements to be in compliance with PRC licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. In the opinion of our in-house PRC legal counsel, our current ownership structure, the contractual arrangements among our wholly owned subsidiaries and the operating company and their shareholders comply with all existing applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations. Because this structure has not been challenged or examined by PRC authorities, they have not commented on it and uncertainties exist as to whether the PRC government may interpret or apply the laws governing these arrangements in a way that is contrary to the opinion of our in-house PRC counsel. If we, or the operating companies, were found to be in violation of any existing PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion to deal with such violation, including, but not limited to the following: 31 • Levying fines • Confiscating income • Revoking licenses • Shutting down servers or blocking websites • Requiring a restructure of ownership or operations • Requiring the discontinuance of wireless VAS and online advertising businesses We may also encounter difficulties in obtaining performance under or enforcement of related contracts. Any of these or similar actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations or render us unable to conduct a substantial portion of our business operations and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our contractual agreements with Wanrong-DE and iMobile-DE may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of these businesses. We depend on operating companies in which we have little or no equity ownership interest and must rely on contractual agreements to control and operate these businesses. Our contractual agreements with each of the operating companies may not be as effective in providing and maintaining control over the operating companies and their business operations as direct ownership of these businesses. For example, we may not be able to take control of the operating company upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the imposition of statutory liens, judgments, court orders, death or capacity. Furthermore, if the operating companies fail to perform as required under those contractual agreements, we will have to rely on the PRC legal system to enforce those agreements and there is no guarantee that we will be successful in an enforcement action. In addition, the PRC government may propose new laws or amend current laws that may be detrimental to our current contractual agreements with our operating companies, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business operations. The PRC government may prevent us from advertising or distributing content that it believes is inappropriate. China has enacted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. In the past, the Chinese government has stopped the distribution of information over the Internet or through VAS that it believes to violate PRC law, including content that it believes is obscene, incites violence, endangers national security, is contrary to the national interest or is defamatory. In addition, we may need the permission of the Chinese government prior to publishing certain news items, such as news relating to national security. Furthermore, the Ministry of Public Security has the authority to cause any local Internet service provider to block any website maintained outside China at its sole discretion. If the PRC government were to take any action to limit or prohibit the distribution of information through our network or via our VAS, or to limit or regulate any current or future content or services available to users on our network, our business could be significantly harmed. We are also subject to potential liability for content on our website that is deemed inappropriate and for any unlawful actions of our subscribers and other users of our systems. Furthermore, we are required to delete content that clearly violates the laws of China and report content that we suspect may violate PRC law. It is difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability for us, and if we are wrong, we may be prevented from operating our website. RISKS RELATED TO OUR TECHNOLOGY AND EQUIPMENT We must respond quickly and effectively to new technological developments. Our gaming, telecom and VAS businesses are highly dependent on our computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems. Our failure to maintain the superiority of our technological capabilities or to respond effectively to technological changes could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our future success also depends on our ability to enhance existing software and systems and to respond to changing technological developments. If we are unable to successfully develop and bring to market new software and systems in a timely manner, our competitors’ technologies or services may render our products or services noncompetitive or obsolete. 32 RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Efforts to comply with recently enacted changes in securities laws and regulations will increase our costs and require additional management resources. Our failure to comply could adversely affect our stock price. Our business operations grew rapidly by acquisition during 2006 and 2007. We do not integrate the business operations of our target companies and therefore have separate administration and accounting personnel at each subsidiary location. Due to the number of subsidiaries we have acquired, we have faced significant challenges with the timely reporting of information necessary to complete the financial statements to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These actions have required us to re-evaluate our disclosure controls and procedures and conclude that they are ineffective. We have sought to improve our existing disclosure controls and procedures and to that end, have substantially increased our accounting and administrative resources. Our failure to timely file our annual and quarterly reports may have an adverse affect on our stock price and may put our common stock in jeopardy of being delisted. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, public companies are required to include a report of management on the company's internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. and the public accounting firm auditing a company's financial statements must attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of the company's internal controls over financial reporting. This requirement will first apply to our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. We have only recently begun to evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting. Given the status of our efforts, coupled with the fact that guidance from regulatory authorities in the area of internal controls continues to evolve, substantial uncertainty exists regarding our ability to comply by applicable deadlines. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting for future year ends, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we could experience delays or inaccuracies in our reporting of financial information, or non-compliance with SEC reporting and other regulatory requirements. This could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and result in a loss of public confidence in our management, which could, among other things, adversely affect our stock price. We issued $8,000,000 in convertible debentures, which we may not be able to repay in cash and could result in dilution of our basic earnings per share. In March 2006, we issued $8 million in convertible debentures which were originally due in March 2009. The debentures are convertible at any time into shares of our common stock at an initial fixed conversion price of $10.00 per share, subject to adjustments for certain events. If any event of default occurs under the debentures or other related documents, the holders may elect to accelerate the payment of the outstanding principal amount of the debenture, plus accrued, but unpaid interest, liquidated damages or other amounts, which shall become immediately due and payable. In 2007, we began to redeem up to $363,638 every month, plus accrued, but unpaid interest, liquidated damages and penalties. We may choose to pay such redemption amount in cash, or, subject to meeting certain conditions, we may pay all or a part of the redemption amount in shares of common stock. We may not have enough cash on hand or have the ability to access cash to pay the redemption amount, or upon acceleration of the debenture in the case of an event of default, or at maturity. In addition, the redemption of the debentures with our shares or the conversion of the debentures into shares of common stock could result in dilution of our basic earnings per share. We have to pay liquidated damages and our debentures are in default and we are unable to re-instate use of the prospectus contained in our Registration Statement on Form S-1 On March 27, 2007, we suspended use of the prospectus contained in our Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-134127) that was declared effective on December 8, 2006, due to the lack of fiscal year end 2005 and 2004 audited financial statements. As a result 3,152,228 shares of common stock registered there under, are not freely tradable upon resale. Under the terms of our registration rights agreement with the holders of the debentures, we are subject to paying liquidated damages equal to 2% of the debenture amount on a monthly basis, up to a maximum of 20% per holder, in the event we suspend use of the prospectus for longer than 15 consecutive calendar days or more than an aggregate of 30 calendar days during any 12-month period. Our debentures are currently in default, which resulted in acceleration of the amounts due, we had an agreement and payment plan with the debenture holder which we were unable to adhered to and resulted in involuntary petition under Chapter 11 relief in federal bankruptcy court late Saturday, March 22, 2008 in Wilmington, DE filed by three debenture holders. We may not have cash on hand, or have the ability to access cash to pay the debenture in full if such a demand is made. If the debenture holders refuse to negotiate with us, our failure to pay upon demand could result in the debenture holders bringing claims against us for payment, which may include severe penalty payments. If they are successful in such claims, we may suffer significant losses, which may severely curtail our ability to continue business operations. 33 If we are not successful in defending against a lawsuit by one of our debenture holders our business operations could be severely curtailed. One of our debenture holders has filed a complaint against us in the Supreme Court of the State of New York claiming that we are in default for failure to timely make payments under the debentures. The debenture holder is demanding payment of $3,253,163.80 in the aggregate, together with any accrued but unpaid interest through the date of judgment and reimbursement of attorney fees and other costs and expenses incurred together with costs and disbursements of the action and such other further relief afforded by the Court. Although we intend to vigorously defend ourselves against this action, if the debenture holder is successful in its claims or, if based upon advice from legal counsel we choose to settle this litigation, such payments could put a severe strain on our available cash and we could suffer significant losses, which could curtail our ability to continue our business. If we are unable to regain compliance with the NASDAQ rules for continued listing, are securities may be de-listed from the NASDAQ Global Market. We are currently subject to possible delisting procedures by the NASDAQ Stock Market for failing to have audited financials for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007. On April 16, 2008, PacificNet received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that as a result of the Company's failure to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, the Company is not in compliance with the NASDAQ requirements for continued listing set forth in NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14). NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) requires the Company to make on a timely basis all filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. PacificNet has appealed the NASDAQ Staff's determination and a hearing has been set before the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel, which automatically stays the delisting of PacificNet's common stock pending the Panel's review and determination. There can be no assurance that the Panel will grant the Company's request for continued listing, once the 10-K is filed. The price of our stock has fluctuated in the past and may continue to do so. Our stock price has fluctuated dramatically. There is a significant risk that the market price of our common stock will decrease in the future in response to any of the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: ● Variations in our quarterly operating results ● Announcements that our revenue or income are below analysts' expectations ● General economic slowdowns ● Changes in market valuations of similar companies ● Sales of large blocks of our common stock ● Announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments ● Fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes, which are particularly common among highly volatile securities of companies with primarily international-based operations Future sales of shares could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock As of December 31, 2007, we had 11,984,072 shares of common stock outstanding, which shares will be available to be sold in the public market in the near future, subject to the volume restrictions and/or manner of sale requirements of Rule 144 under the Securities Act., with respect to shares of common stock held by affiliates and shares issued between 12 and 24 months ago. Sales by our current shareholders of a substantial number of shares could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2007, we had warrants outstanding to purchase 1,007,138 shares of our common stock. To the extent that the warrants are exercised, they may be exercised at prices below the price of our shares of common stock on the public market, resulting in a significant number of shares entering the public market and the dilution of our common stock. In the event that any future financing should also be in the form of securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, equity securities, investors may experience additional dilution upon the conversion or exchange of such securities. 34 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS NONE ITEM 