ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This item describes certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. You should consider these risk factors when evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because our actual results and financial condition might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements, should these risks occur. We face other risks besides those highlighted below. These other risks include additional uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial. Should any of the risks described below actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be negatively affected. Our businesses are highly competitive, and if we fail to compete successfully, our revenues and results of operations may be hurt. We operate in a highly competitive global environment. Our businesses compete with other broad line manufacturers, as well as many smaller businesses specializing in particular products or services, primarily on the basis of brand, product quality, price, warranty, delivery, service and technical support. We face increased competition from new infection prevention, sterile processing, contamination control, and surgical support products and services entering the market. Competitors and potential competitors also are attempting to develop alternate technologies and sterilizing agents, as well as disposable medical instruments and other devices designed to address the risk of decontamination. If our products, services, support, distribution and/or cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully, our revenues, results of operations, or financial condition may be impaired. Our success depends in part on our ability to design, manufacture, distribute and achieve market acceptance of new products with higher functionality and lower costs. Many of our customers operate businesses characterized by technological change, product innovation and evolving industry standards. Price is a key consideration in their purchasing decisions. To successfully compete, we must continue to design, develop, and improve innovative products. We also must achieve market acceptance of and effectively distribute those products, and reduce production costs. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations might be adversely affected if our competitors’ product development capabilities become more effective, if they introduce new or improved products that gain market acceptance before ours, or if they begin to produce and sell products at lower prices. Consolidations among our health care and pharmaceutical customers may result in a loss of customers or more significant pricing pressures. A number of our customers have consolidated. These consolidations are due in part to health care cost reduction measures initiated by legislators, regulators and third-party payors. In an effort to attract customers, some of our competitors have reduced 10 Table of Contents production costs and lowered prices. This has resulted in greater pricing pressures on us. Additional consolidations could result in a loss of customers or more significant pricing pressures. If our cost reduction and restructuring efforts are ineffective, our revenues and profitability may be hurt. We have undertaken various cost reduction and restructuring activities, including the restructuring activities announced in January 2006 and, in particular, the transfer of our Erie, Pennsylvania manufacturing operations to Mexico. These efforts may not produce the full efficiencies and cost reduction benefits we expect or efficiencies and benefits might be delayed. Implementation costs also might exceed expectations and further cost reduction measures might become necessary, resulting in additional future charges. If these cost reduction and restructuring efforts are not properly implemented or are unsuccessful, we might experience business disruptions or our business otherwise might be adversely affected. Decreased availability or increased costs of raw materials or energy might increase our production costs or limit our production capabilities. We purchase raw materials, fabricated and other components and energy supplies from a variety of suppliers. Key materials include stainless steel, organic chemicals, and plastic components. The availability and prices of raw materials and energy supplies are subject to volatility and are influenced by worldwide economic conditions, speculative action, world supply and demand balances, inventory levels, availability of substitute materials, currency exchange rates, anticipated or perceived shortages, and other factors. In some situations, we may be able to limit price increases or assure availability through supply agreements. Otherwise, raw material prices and availability are subject to the foregoing factors. Increases in prices or decreases in availability of raw materials and oil and gas might impair our procurement of necessary materials or our product production, or might increase production costs. In addition, energy costs impact our freight and distribution and other supply costs. Shortages in supply or increases in the price of raw materials, components and energy supplies may adversely impact our performance and results of operations to the extent our increased costs can not be passed on to our customers. Our operations, and those of our suppliers, are subject to a variety of business continuity hazards and risks, any of which could interrupt production or operations or otherwise adversely affect our performance, results, or value. We are subject to business continuity hazards and other risks including: • explosions, fires, inclement weather, and other disasters; • mechanical failures; • unscheduled downtime; • labor difficulties; • inability to obtain or maintain any required licenses or permits; • disruption of communications; • inability to hire or retain key management or employees; and • disruption of supply or distribution. The occurrence of any of these events might disrupt or shut down operations, or otherwise adversely impact the production or profitability of a particular facility, or our operations as a whole. Certain of the described casualties also might cause personal injury and loss of life, or severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, and for casualties occurring at our facilities result in liability claims against us. Although we maintain property and casualty insurance and liability and similar insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are customary for our industries, our insurance coverages have limits and we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. Should any of the hazards or risks occur, our performance and results of operations might be adversely affected, both during and after the event. 11 Table of Contents We conduct manufacturing, sales and distribution operations on a worldwide basis and are subject to a variety of risks associated with doing business outside the United States. We maintain significant international operations, including operations in Europe, Asia and Latin America. As a result, we are subject to a number of risks and complications inherent in international manufacturing, sales, services, and other operations. These include: • risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; • foreign customers with longer payment cycles than customers in the United States; • tax rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the United States, and foreign earnings subject to withholding requirements; • tax laws that restrict our ability to use tax credits, offset gains, or repatriate funds; • tariffs, exchange controls or other trade restrictions including transfer pricing restrictions when products produced in one country are sold to an affiliated entity in another country; • general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate or where end users of our products are situated; • difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries; • difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights or weaker intellectual property right protections in some countries; and • difficulties associated with compliance with a variety of laws and regulations governing international trade. Implementation and achievement of international growth objectives also may be impeded by political, social, and economic uncertainties or unrest in countries in which we conduct operations or market or distribute our products. In addition, compliance with multiple, and potentially conflicting, international laws and regulations, import and export limitations, and exchange controls may be burdensome or expensive or otherwise limit our growth opportunities. These complications and occurrences of these risks may adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Changes in government and other third-party payor reimbursement levels to health care providers might negatively impact our revenues and profitability. We sell many of our products to hospitals and other health care providers. Many of these providers receive reimbursement for services from third-party payors, such as government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private insurance plans, and managed care programs. In the United States, many of these programs set maximum reimbursement levels for these health care services. Outside the United States, reimbursement systems vary significantly by country. However, government-managed health care systems control reimbursement for health care services in many foreign countries. In these countries, like the United States, public budgetary constraints may significantly impact the ability of hospitals and other providers supported by such systems to purchase our products. If the third-party payors deny coverage or reduce their current levels of reimbursement for health care services or if our costs increase more rapidly than reimbursement level increases, our revenues or profitability may suffer and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We are subject to extensive regulatory requirements and must receive and maintain regulatory clearance or approval for many products and operations. Failure to receive, or delays in receiving, clearance or approvals may hurt our revenues or profitability. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation in both the United States and in other countries where we do business. Government regulation applies to nearly all aspects of testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storing, recordkeeping, reporting, promoting, 12 Table of Contents distributing, and importing or exporting of medical devices. In general, unless an exemption applies, a sterilization, decontamination or medical device must receive regulatory approval or clearance before it can be marketed or sold. Modifications to existing products or the marketing of new uses for existing products also may require regulatory approvals, approval supplements or clearances. If we are unable to obtain any required approvals, approval supplements or clearances for any modification to a previously cleared or approved device, we may be required to cease manufacturing or recall such modified device until such time as appropriate clearance or approval is obtained. Regulatory agencies may refuse to grant approval or clearance, or review and disagree with our decision that regulatory approval is not required. Regulatory submissions may require the provision of additional clinical or pre-clinical data and may be time consuming and costly. Regulatory agencies may also change policies, adopt additional regulations, or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay approval or clearance of devices, or could impact our ability to market a previously cleared or approved device. Our failure to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA or other applicable regulatory requirements in the United States or elsewhere might subject us to administratively or judicially imposed sanctions. These sanctions include warning letters, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties, injunctions, debarment, product seizure or detention, product recalls and total or partial suspension of production. In many foreign countries, sales of our products are subject to extensive regulations that are comparable to those of the FDA. In Europe, our products are regulated primarily by country and community regulations of those countries within the European Economic Area and must conform to the requirements of those authorities. The failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant United States or international qualifications could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products are subject to recalls, even after receiving United States or foreign regulatory clearance or approval. Ongoing medical device reporting regulations require that we report to appropriate governmental authorities in the United States and/or other countries when our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. Governmental authorities can require product recalls for material deficiencies or defects in product design or manufacturing, including labeling, or component failure. For the same reasons, we may voluntarily elect to recall a product. Any recall would divert managerial and financial resources and might harm our reputation among our customers and other health care professionals who use or recommend the products. Product recalls might have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by difficulties in acquiring or maintaining a proprietary intellectual ownership position. To maintain our competitive position, we need to obtain patent or other proprietary rights for new and improved products and to maintain and enforce our patents and other proprietary rights. We typically apply for patents in the United States and in strategic foreign countries. We may also acquire patents through acquisitions. A recent United States Supreme Court decision increases the difficulty of obtaining patent protection in the United States. The actual scope and impact of the decision on our existing patent rights or patent applications and those of others will not be known until the lower courts begin interpreting and applying the decision. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, know-how and confidentiality agreements to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology. These measures afford only limited protection, and competitors may gain access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Litigation may be costly and may divert management’s attention from other matters. Additionally, in some foreign countries with weaker intellectual property rights, it may be difficult to maintain and enforce patents and other proprietary rights. If we are unable to obtain necessary patents, our patents and other proprietary rights are successfully challenged or competitors independently develop substantially equivalent information and technology or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology, our revenues, results of operations or financial condition may be impaired. 13 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by product liability claims or other legal actions or regulatory or compliance matters. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims. A significant increase in the number, amount or scope of our product liability claims may result in substantial costs and harm our reputation or otherwise adversely affect product sales. Product liability claims may also distract management from other business responsibilities. We are also subject to a variety of other types of claims, proceedings, investigations and litigation initiated by government agencies or third parties and other potential risks and liabilities. These include compliance matters, such as product regulation and safety, taxes, employee benefit plans, employment discrimination, health and safety, environmental, antitrust, customs, import/export, government contract compliance, financial controls or reporting, intellectual property or other similar or different matters. Any such claims, proceedings, investigations or litigation, regardless of the merits, might result in substantial costs or otherwise injure our business. Administratively or judicially imposed sanctions might include warning letters, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties, loss of tax benefits, injunctions, product seizure or detention or debarment. We also might be required to take actions such as payment of substantial amounts or revision of financial statements or with respect to our products: • cease manufacturing and selling products; • redesign or recall products; or • otherwise restrict or suspend product sales or other activities or business practices. Some product replacements may not be possible. Other replacements may be prohibitively costly or time consuming. We maintain product liability and other insurance with coverages believed to be adequate. However, product liability or other claims may exceed insurance coverage limits or insurance may not continue to be available or available on commercially reasonable terms. Additionally, our insurers might deny claim coverage for valid or improper reasons or may become insolvent. The results of legal, regulatory, or compliance claims, proceedings, investigations or litigation are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of any legal, regulatory or compliance matter could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity, or financial condition. Our growth may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully identify, acquire and integrate strategic acquisition candidates. Our growth depends in part on successful acquisitions. In turn, the success of an acquisition depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable businesses for an appropriate price and to obtain any necessary financing. Competition for acquisition candidates may result in increases in acquisition costs. Acquisitions are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: • delays in realizing the benefits of the acquired company or products; • diversion of management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • difficulties in retaining key employees, customers or suppliers of the acquired businesses; • difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers or customers; • other events contributing to difficulties in generating future cash flows; • risks associated with the assumption of contingent or undisclosed liabilities of acquisition targets; and • difficulties in obtaining or satisfying financing. If we are unable to realize the anticipated operating efficiencies and synergies or other expected acquisition benefits, our results of operations might be adversely impacted by the amortization of acquisition expenses and acquired assets or by other corrective actions that may be necessary to limit resulting problems. 14 Table of Contents Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to recruit and retain qualified management. Our continued success depends, in large part, on our ability to hire and retain highly qualified people and if we are unable to do so, our business and operations may be impaired or disrupted. Specifically, the Company’s Board of Directors is actively conducting a search for a president and CEO to replace Mr. Vinney who has previously announced his intention to step down from this role. Competition for highly qualified people is intense and there is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining replacements to fill vacant positions, successors to fill retirements or employees moving to new positions, or other highly qualified personnel. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 