Item 1A. Risk Factors. History of Losses. Prior to 2006, the Company incurred recurring losses including a net loss of $919,000 for the year ended October 31, 2005 and has an accumulated deficit of $3.4 million at October 31, 2007. While the Company believes that its existing cash of $6.9 million at October 31, 2007 is adequate to support operations for the next fiscal year or more, the Company must ultimately remain profitable or obtain additional financing to be able to meet its future cash flow requirements, and there can be no assurance that it will be able to do so. Product Liability and Potential Insufficiency of Product Liability Insurance. The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical devices involve risk of liability claims and product recalls. ICD products that the Company sold prior to 2001 are highly complex and were used in medical procedures and in situations where there is a potential risk of serious injury, adverse side effects or death. As a result, the Company currently carries product liability insurance covering its products with policy limits per occurrence and in the aggregate that the Company has deemed to be sufficient. The Company cannot predict, however, whether this insurance is sufficient, or if not, whether the Company will be able to obtain sufficient insurance, to cover the risks associated with the Company’s business or whether this insurance will be available at premiums that are commercially reasonable. Although the Company has discontinued its ICD business, a successful claim against or settlement by the Company in excess of its insurance coverage or the Company’s inability to maintain insurance in the future could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. In 2005, the Company settled a claim for indemnification from ELA Medical for expenses incurred by ELA Medical in connection with the recall of ICDs formerly manufactured by the Company. The Company expects that the only expense for discontinued operations in the future will be the purchase of product liability insurance for as long as the Company believes it necessary to cover ICDs that remain implanted in patients. The current policy for product liability insurance covering ICDs expires in July 2008. Although ELA Medical has agreed that it will be responsible for any warranty coverage, technical service and regulatory compliance service with respect to any “recalled” ICDs in the future, there can be no assurance that the Company will not be subject to patient claims in the future. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Discontinued Operations and Related Litigation.” Success of Business Plan. Successful implementation of the Company’s business plan through its Medical Graphics subsidiary operating entity is dependent on the interaction of many variables, including the effects of changing industry conditions, competition and the Company’s ability to successfully market and sell its new products. While the Company believes that its business plan reflects reasonable judgments in assessing those risks, there can be no assurance that influences not foreseen by the Company would not adversely affect its ability to execute the business plan strategies. While the Company believes that its business plan projections are in line with achievable performance levels, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain, and sustain, projected sales revenue increases. Dependence upon New Products. The Company is focusing a portion of its resources on the weight loss, general fitness, clinical research and disease prevention markets that are a logical extension of its core cardiorespiratory systems technology. The Company’s principal products are its New Leaf Active Metabolic Training system and new cardiorespiratory diagnostic products planned for introduction both domestically and internationally. The Company’s future success will be dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of these products and services into the weight loss, general fitness, clinical research and disease prevention markets. In developing these new products, it will incur additional research and development and marketing expenses. 14 The Company’s success will also depend upon cost-effective development of new products for its cardiorespiratory markets. There can be no assurance that revenues, if any, from new products will be sufficient to recoup the Company’s expenses in developing and marketing any new product. Moreover, there is no assurance that the Company can manufacture these new products at a cost, or sell these products at a price, that will result in an acceptable rate of return for the Company. Market acceptance of these new products may be slow or customers may not accept the new products at all. If the Company cannot successfully develop and market new products, its financial performance and results of operations will be adversely affected. Need for Market Acceptance. Market acceptance of the Company’s products will depend, in part, on the capabilities and operating features of its products compared to competing products and the Company’s ability to market the benefits, features and clinical efficacy of its products. The timeliness of its product introductions and its ability to manufacture quality products profitably and in sufficient quantities are also important to continued success. Failure of the Company’s products to gain market acceptance would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, even if there is growth in the markets for the Company’s products, there can be no assurance that the Company will participate in such growth. Importance of Intellectual Property Protection. Patents and trademarks are critical in the medical device industry, and the Company believes strongly in protecting its intellectual property and has a long history of obtaining patents, when available, in connection with its research and product development programs. The Company owns a number of United States and foreign patents. The Company also owns certain registered trademarks, and has applied for other trademarks in the United States and certain foreign countries. There can be no assurance that patents and trademarks will be granted in the future, or that any patents and trademarks that the Company now holds or may be granted, or under which it has held license rights, will be valid or otherwise be of value to the Company. Even if the Company’s patents and trademarks are valid, others may be able to introduce non-infringing products that are competitive with those of the Company. Competitors of the Company may also hold or be granted patents that are not licensed to the Company. Although patent and intellectual property disputes in the medical device area have often been settled through licensing agreements or similar arrangements, costs associated with such arrangements may be substantial, and there can be no assurance that necessary licenses would be available to the Company on satisfactory terms or at all. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent the Company from manufacturing and selling its products, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company seeks to protect its trade secrets and proprietary know-how, in part, through confidentiality agreements, non-compete agreements and assignment of invention provisions in agreements with employees, consultants and other parties, as well as through contractual exclusivity with certain suppliers. There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will not be breached, that the Company would have adequate remedies for any breach, or that the Company’s trade secrets will not otherwise become known to or independently developed by competitors. Dependence on Senior Management and Other Key Personnel. The Company’s success depends largely on effective leadership from its senior management and other key personnel. Moreover, competition for qualified personnel with sufficient and relevant experience in the medical device industry is intense. Accordingly, the loss of the services of such individuals, or the inability to hire additional key 15 individuals as required, could have a material adverse effect on the Company, including its current and future product development efforts. Dependence on Third Party Vendors. The Company relies on third party vendors for certain components used in the Company’s products. A number of significant components, such as capacitors, batteries and integrated circuits, are purchased from sole source suppliers. Medical Graphics acquires its cycle ergometers and treadmills from third parties. Although the Company attempts to maintain sufficient quantities of inventory of these components to minimize production delays or interruptions, there can be no assurance that the Company will find suitable alternatives at reasonable prices, if at all, or that any alternatives will remain available to the Company. The Company’s inability to obtain acceptable components in a timely manner or find and maintain suitable replacement suppliers for components would have a material adverse effect on the Company, including its ability to manufacture its products. Effect of Certain Anti-Takeover Provisions. The Company is governed by the provisions of Sections 302A.671 and 302A.673 of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act. These anti-takeover provisions could potentially operate to deny shareholders the receipt of a premium on their common stock and may also have a depressive effect on the market price of the Company’s common stock. Section 302A.671 generally provides that the shares of a corporation acquired in a “control share acquisition” have no voting rights unless voting rights are approved by the shareholders in a prescribed manner. A “control share acquisition” is generally defined as an acquisition of beneficial ownership of shares that would, when added to all other shares beneficially owned by the acquiring person, entitle the acquiring person to have voting power of 20% or more in the election of directors. Section 302A.673 prohibits a public corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested shareholder” for a period of four years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. A “business combination” includes mergers, asset sales and other transactions. An “interested shareholder” is a person who is the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the corporation’s voting stock. Reference is made to the detailed terms of Sections 302A.671 and 302A.673 of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act. The Company has also entered into agreements with certain executive officers that provide for certain benefits upon a change of control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 