ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This item describes certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. You should consider these risk factors when evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, because our actual results and financial condition might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements should these risks occur. We face other risks besides those highlighted below. These other risks include additional uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial, but may ultimately have a significant impact. Should any of the risks described below actually occur, our business, financial condition, performance, value, or results of operations could be negatively affected. The current economic crisis may adversely affect us. Adverse economic cycles or conditions and Customer, regulatory or government response thereto, could affect our results of operations. There can be no assurances when these cycles or conditions will occur or when they will improve after they occur. Circumstances such as the current ongoing adverse financial market conditions and the worldwide business downturn have had a significant adverse effect on United States and global economies, which has negatively impacted access to capital markets and investment activity within key geographic and market segments served. Credit and liquidity problems caused by the foregoing conditions may make it difficult for some businesses to access credit markets and obtain financing and may cause some businesses to curtail spending to conserve cash in anticipation of further business slowdowns and liquidity needs. If our Customers have difficulty financing their purchases due to credit market disruptions or related factors or because of other operational problems they may be experiencing or otherwise decide to curtail their purchases, our business could be adversely affected. Our exposure to bad debt losses could also increase if Customers are unable to pay for products previously ordered and delivered. Also, the continuing financial market turmoil may limit the ability of our lenders to satisfy their obligations to us to provide funding and letters of credit or the ability of our insurers to respond to a claim under an insurance policy. In addition, as a result of the current economic situation, the investment portfolio for our defined benefit pension plans has experienced volatility and a significant decline in fair value since March 31, 2008. Because the values of these pension plan investments have and will fluctuate in response to changing market conditions, the amount of gains or losses that will be recognized in subsequent periods and the impact on the funded status of the plans and future minimum required contributions, if any, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial conditions and result of operations. We contribute amounts to our defined benefit pension plans at least equal to the minimum amounts required by applicable employee benefit laws and local tax laws. We anticipate making contributions of approximately $9.4 million to the defined benefit pension plans in fiscal 2010. 10 Table of Contents Our businesses are highly competitive, and if we fail to compete successfully, our revenues and results of operations may be hurt. We operate in a highly competitive global environment. Our businesses compete with other broad line manufacturers, as well as many smaller businesses specializing in particular products or services, primarily on the basis of brand, design, quality, safety, ease of use, serviceability, price, product features, warranty, delivery, service, and technical support. We face increased competition from new infection prevention, sterile processing, contamination control, and surgical support, cleaning consumables, contract sterilization, and other products and services entering the market. Competitors and potential competitors also are attempting to develop alternate technologies and sterilizing agents, as well as disposable medical instruments and other devices designed to address the risk of contamination. If our products, services, support, distribution and/or cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully, our business performance, value, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to design, manufacture, distribute, and achieve market acceptance of new products with higher functionality and lower costs. Many of our Customers operate businesses characterized by technological change, product innovation and evolving industry standards. Price is a key consideration in their purchasing decisions. To successfully compete, we must continue to design, develop, and improve innovative products. We also must achieve market acceptance of and effectively distribute those products, and reduce production costs. Our business, performance, value, financial condition, and results of operations might be adversely affected if our competitors’ product development capabilities become more effective, if they introduce new or improved products that displace our products or gain market acceptance before ours, or if they begin to produce and sell products at lower prices. We are subject to extensive regulatory requirements and must receive and maintain regulatory clearance or approval for many products and operations. Failure to receive or maintain, or delays in receiving, clearance or approvals may hurt our revenues, profitability, financial condition, or value. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation in both the United States and in other countries where we do business. Government regulation applies to nearly all aspects of testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storing, recordkeeping, reporting, promoting, distributing, and importing or exporting of medical devices, products, and services. In general, unless an exemption applies, a sterilization, decontamination or medical device or other product must receive regulatory approval or clearance before it can be marketed or sold. Modifications to existing products or the marketing of new uses for existing products also may require regulatory approvals, approval supplements or clearances. If we are unable to obtain any required approvals, approval supplements or clearances for any modification to a previously cleared or approved device, we may be required to cease manufacturing or recall such modified device until such time as appropriate clearance or approval is obtained. Regulatory agencies may refuse to grant approval or clearance, or review and disagree with our decision that regulatory approval is not required. Regulatory submissions may require the provision of additional data and may be time consuming and costly. Regulatory agencies may also change policies, adopt additional regulations, or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay approval or clearance of devices, or could impact our ability to market a previously cleared or approved device. Refer also to the “Risk Factor” below titled, “We may be adversely affected by product liability claims or other legal actions or regulatory or compliance matters” and the “Risk Factor” below titled “Most of our products, including the liquid chemical sterilization system, must receive regulatory approvals before they can be marketed and sold in the United States and other countries.” and to Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for further information. Our failure to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA or other applicable regulatory requirements in the United States or elsewhere might subject us to administratively or judicially imposed sanctions. These sanctions include warning letters, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties, injunctions, debarment, product seizure or detention, product recalls and total or partial suspension of production. In many foreign countries, sales of our products are subject to extensive regulations that are comparable to those of the FDA. In Europe, our products are regulated primarily by country and community regulations of those countries within the European Economic Area and must conform to the requirements of those authorities. The failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant United States or international qualifications could have a material adverse affect on our business, performance, value, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Consolidations among our healthcare and pharmaceutical Customers may result in a loss of Customers or more significant pricing pressures. A number of our Customers have consolidated. These consolidations are due in part to healthcare cost reduction measures initiated by competitive pressures as well as legislators, regulators and third-party payors. In an effort to attract Customers, some of our competitors have also reduced production costs and lowered prices. This has resulted in greater pricing pressures on us and in some cases loss of Customers. Additional consolidations could result in a loss of Customers or more significant pricing pressures. If our cost reduction and restructuring efforts are ineffective, our profitability may be hurt or our business otherwise might be adversely affected. We have undertaken various cost reduction and restructuring activities, including the restructuring activities announced in January 2006 and, in particular, the transfer of our Erie, Pennsylvania manufacturing operations to Mexico. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we announced cost reduction activities intended to generate annualized operating expense savings of approximately $30 million through direct and indirect overhead expense reductions and other savings. More recently, in the third quarter of fiscal 2009, we announced cost reduction activities primarily related to our international operations, which were intended to generate annualized cost savings of approximately $20 million to be realized over the next several years. These efforts may not produce the full efficiencies and cost reduction benefits we expect or efficiencies and benefits might be delayed. Implementation costs also might exceed expectations and further cost reduction measures might become necessary, resulting in additional future charges. If these cost reduction and restructuring efforts are not properly implemented or are unsuccessful, we might experience business disruptions or our business otherwise might be adversely affected. Decreased availability or increased costs of raw materials or energy supplies or other supplies might increase our production costs or limit our production capabilities. We purchase raw materials, fabricated and other components, and energy supplies from a variety of suppliers. Key materials include stainless steel, organic chemicals, fuel, cobalt, and plastic components. The availability and prices of raw materials and energy supplies are subject to volatility and are influenced by worldwide economic conditions, speculative action, world supply and demand balances, inventory levels, availability of substitute materials, currency exchange rates, anticipated or perceived shortages, and other factors. In some situations, we may be able to limit price increases or assure availability through supply agreements. Otherwise, raw material prices and availability are subject to numerous factors outside of our control, including those described above. Increases in prices or decreases in availability of raw materials and oil and gas might impair our procurement of necessary materials or our product production, or might increase production costs. In addition, energy costs impact our transportation and distribution and other supply and sales costs. Also, a number of our key materials and components are single-sourced or have a limited number of suppliers. Shortages in supply or increases in the price of raw materials, components and energy supplies may adversely impact our business, performance, value, financial condition, and results of operations to the extent our increased costs can not be passed on to our Customers. Our operations, and those of our suppliers, are subject to a variety of business continuity hazards and risks, any of which could interrupt production or operations or otherwise adversely affect our performance, results, or value. Business continuity hazards and other risks include: • explosions, fires, inclement weather, and other disasters; • utility or other mechanical failures; • unscheduled downtime; • labor difficulties; • inability to obtain or maintain any required licenses or permits; • disruption of communications; • data security, preservation and redundancy disruptions; • inability to hire or retain key management or employees; and • disruption of supply or distribution. 12 Table of Contents The occurrence of any of these events might disrupt or shut down operations, or otherwise adversely impact the production or profitability of a particular facility, or our operations as a whole. Certain of the described casualties also might cause personal injury and loss of life, or severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, and for casualties occurring at our facilities result in liability claims against us. Although we maintain property and casualty insurance and liability and similar insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are customary for our industries, our insurance coverages have limits and we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. Should any of the hazards or risks occur, our business, performance, value, financial condition, and results of operations might be adversely affected, both during and after the event. We conduct manufacturing, sales and distribution operations on a worldwide basis and are subject to a variety of risks associated with doing business outside the United States. We maintain significant international operations, including operations in Canada, Europe, Asia and Latin America. As a result, we are subject to a number of risks and complications inherent in international manufacturing, sales, services, and other operations. These include: • risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; • foreign Customers with longer payment cycles than Customers in the United States; • tax rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the United States, and foreign earnings subject to withholding requirements; • tax laws that restrict our ability to use tax credits, offset gains, or repatriate funds; • tariffs, exchange controls or other trade restrictions including transfer pricing restrictions when products produced in one country are sold to an affiliated entity in another country; • general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate or where end users of our products are situated; • difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries; • difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights or weaker intellectual property right protections in some countries; and • difficulties associated with compliance with a variety of laws and regulations governing international trade. Implementation and achievement of international growth objectives also may be impeded by political, social, and economic uncertainties or unrest in countries in which we conduct operations or market or distribute our products. In addition, compliance with multiple, and potentially conflicting, international laws and regulations, import and export limitations, and exchange controls may be burdensome or expensive or otherwise limit our growth opportunities. These complications and occurrences of these risks may adversely affect our business, performance, value, financial condition, and results of operations. Changes in healthcare laws or government and other third-party payor reimbursement levels to healthcare providers, or failure to meet healthcare reimbursement or other requirements might negatively impact our business. We sell many of our products to hospitals and other healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers,. Many of these Customers are subject to or supported by government programs or receive reimbursement for services from third-party payors, such as government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private insurance plans, and managed care programs. In the United States, many of these programs set maximum reimbursement levels for these healthcare services and can have complex reimbursement requirements. Outside the United States, reimbursement systems vary significantly by country. However, government-managed healthcare systems control reimbursement for healthcare services in many foreign countries. In these countries, like the United States, public budgetary constraints may significantly impact the ability of hospitals, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and other Customers supported by such systems to purchase our products. If government or other third-party payors deny or change coverage, reduce their current levels of reimbursement for healthcare services, or if our costs increase more rapidly than reimbursement level increases or we do not satisfy the standards or requirements for reimbursement, our revenues or profitability may suffer and our business, performance, value, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents Our products are subject to recalls, even after receiving United States or foreign regulatory clearance or approval. Ongoing medical device reporting regulations require that we report to appropriate governmental authorities in the United States and/or other countries when our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. Governmental authorities can require product recalls for material deficiencies or defects in product design or manufacturing, including labeling, or component failure. For the same reasons, we may voluntarily elect to recall a product. Any recall would divert managerial and financial resources and might harm our reputation among our Customers and other healthcare professionals who use or recommend the products. Product recalls, suspensions, re-labeling, or other change might have a material adverse affect on our business, performance, value, financial condition, or results of operations. Our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by difficulties in acquiring or maintaining a proprietary intellectual ownership position. To maintain our competitive position, we need to obtain patent or other proprietary rights for new and improved products and to maintain and enforce our existing patents and other proprietary rights. We typically apply for patents in the United States and in strategic foreign countries. We may also acquire patents through acquisitions. A 2007 United States Supreme Court decision increases the difficulty of obtaining patent protection in the United States. The actual scope and impact of the decision on our existing patent rights or patent applications and those of others will not be known until other court rulings interpret and apply the decision. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, know-how, and confidentiality agreements to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology. These measures afford only limited protection, and competitors may gain access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Litigation may also be brought against us claiming that we have violated the intellectual property rights of others. Litigation may be costly and may divert management’s attention from other matters. Additionally, in some foreign countries with weaker intellectual property rights, it may be difficult to maintain and enforce patents and other proprietary rights or defend against claims of infringement. If we are unable to obtain necessary patents, our patents and other proprietary rights are successfully challenged, or competitors independently develop substantially equivalent information and technology or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology, our business, performance, value, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by product liability claims or other legal actions or regulatory or compliance matters. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims and other legal and regulatory actions. A significant increase in the number, severity, amount, or scope of these claims and actions may result in substantial costs and harm our reputation or otherwise adversely affect product sales and our business. Product liability claims and other legal and regulatory actions may also distract management from other business responsibilities. We are also subject to a variety of other types of claims, proceedings, investigations, and litigation initiated by government agencies or third parties and other potential risks and liabilities. These include compliance matters, product regulation and safety, taxes, employee benefit plans, employment discrimination, health and safety, environmental, antitrust, customs, import/export, government contract compliance, financial controls or reporting, intellectual property, allegations of misrepresentation, false claims or false statements, or other similar or different matters. Any such claims, proceedings, investigations or litigation, regardless of the merits, might result in substantial costs restrictions on product use or sales, or otherwise injure our business. Administratively or judicially imposed sanctions might include warning letters, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties, loss of tax benefits, injunctions, product seizure, recalls, re-labeling, detention, and/or debarment. We also might be required to take actions such as payment of substantial amounts, or revision of financial statements, or to take the following types of actions with respect to our products, services, or business: • redesign, re-label, or recall products; • cease manufacturing and selling products; • seizure of product inventory; • court injunction against further marketing and sale of products; 14 Table of Contents • consent decree, which could result in further regulatory constraints; • dedication of significant internal and external resources to respond to and comply with legal and regulatory issues and constraints; • claims, litigation, and other proceedings brought by Customers, users, governmental agencies, and others; • disruption of product improvements and product launches; • discontinuation of certain product lines; or • other restrictions or limitations on product sales, use or operation, or other activities or business practices. Some product replacements or substitutions may not be possible or may be prohibitively costly or time consuming. An example of a type of matter described above is the warning letter we received from the FDA on May 16, 2008 regarding our STERIS SYSTEM 1® sterile processing system. In summary, that letter outlines the FDA’s assertion that significant changes or modifications have been made in the design, components, method of manufacture or intended use of the system, beyond the FDA’s 1988 clearance of the device, such that the FDA asserts a new premarket notification submission is required. We responded to the warning letter. In November 2008, we received correspondence from the FDA indicating that the FDA disagreed, on a preliminary basis, with our response and that the FDA wanted to meet with us prior to finalizing its position and to outline next steps to resolve any differences between the Company and the FDA. On January 20, 2009, we announced that we submitted to the FDA a new liquid chemical sterilization system for 510(k) clearance. The new submission follows discussions with the FDA regarding the prior 510(k) submission issues raised in the warning letter related to our existing device. The new liquid chemical sterilization system submitted to the FDA addresses the changes referenced by the FDA in the warning letter and includes additional technology updates. We also communicated to Customers that STERIS will continue supporting the existing STERIS SYSTEM 1® installed base by providing accessories, sterilant, service and parts, and replacement processor units for at least a two year period. In the United States, STERIS will continue sales of STERIS SYSTEM 1® processors only as replacements for existing units. Once the new liquid chemical sterilization system is cleared for market use by the FDA, we will work with Customers to transition to the new product. These or other proceedings, negotiations, or investigations involving our STERIS SYSTEM 1® sterile processing system and the STERIS’s S20TM sterilant, could, in addition to the actions listed above, possibly require us to take other actions, to pay fines or civil damages, or to be subject to other governmental or third party claims or remedies, which could materially affect our business, performance, value, financial condition, and results of operations. (For more information regarding this warning letter, see Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” below.) The results of legal, regulatory, or compliance claims, proceedings, investigations, or litigation are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution or outcome of the recent FDA warning letter regarding our STERIS SYSTEM 1® sterile processing system or any other legal, regulatory or compliance claim, or matter regarding any other significant product, service, or obligation of ours, could materially and adversely affect our business, performance, value, financial condition, and results of operations. We maintain product liability and other insurance with coverages believed to be adequate. However, product liability or other claims may exceed insurance coverage limits, fines, penalties and regulatory sanctions may not be covered by insurance, or insurance may not continue to be available or available on commercially reasonable terms. Additionally, our insurers might deny claim coverage for valid or other reasons or may become insolvent. Most of our products, including the liquid chemical sterilization system, submitted to the FDA in January 2009, must receive regulatory approvals before they can be marketed and sold in the United States and other countries. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation in both the United States and in other countries where we do business. In Europe, our products are regulated primarily by country and community regulations of those countries within the European Economic Area and must conform to the requirements of those authorities. Government regulation applies to nearly all aspects of testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storing, recordkeeping, reporting, promoting, distributing, and importing or exporting of medical devices, products, and services. In general, unless an exemption applies, a sterilization, decontamination or medical device or other product, including the liquid chemical sterilization system submitted to the FDA in January, 2009 for clearance, must receive regulatory approval or clearance before it can be marketed or sold. Prior to clearance by the FDA, we may not sell the new sterilization system in the United States. 15 Table of Contents Regulatory agencies may refuse to grant approval or clearance. Regulatory submissions may require the provision of additional data and may be time consuming and costly. Regulatory agencies may also change policies, adopt additional regulations, or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay approval or clearance of our products, including the new liquid chemical sterilization system. If we are unable to obtain this or any other required approvals or clearances, approval supplements or clearances for our products, including the new liquid chemical sterilization system or the approvals are delayed, we may not be able to market and sell these products, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, performance, value, financial condition and results of operations. Existing and new Customers may not purchase or use the new liquid chemical sterilization system consistent with the purchase and use of the existing STERIS SYSTEM 1®. In January 2009, we submitted a 510(k) premarket notification to the FDA for a new liquid chemical sterilization system. If the liquid chemical sterilization system is cleared for use in the United States by the FDA, we may begin to market and sell the system. There can be no assurance as to the extent that such new liquid chemical sterilization system will receive market acceptance or that any such demand will be consistent with the market demand of the existing STERIS SYSTEM 1®. If sales or use of the new liquid chemical sterilization system are less than the existing STERIS SYSTEM 1®, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, performance, value, financial condition and results of operations. We engage in acquisitions and affiliations, divestitures, and other business arrangements. Our growth may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully identify, price, and integrate strategic business candidates or otherwise optimize our business portfolio. Our success depends, in part, on strategic acquisitions and joint ventures, which are intended to complement or expand our businesses, divestiture of non-strategic businesses, and other actions to optimize our portfolio of businesses. This strategy depends upon our ability to identify, appropriately price, and complete these types of business development transactions or arrangements and to obtain any necessary financing. Our success will also depend on our ability to integrate the businesses acquired or to develop satisfactory working arrangements with our strategic partners in joint ventures or other affiliations, or to divest or realign non-strategic businesses. Competition for strategic business candidates may result in increases in costs and price for acquisition candidates, and market valuation issues may reduce the value available for divestiture of non-strategic businesses. These types of transactions are also subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: • delays in realizing the benefits of the transactions; • diversion of management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • difficulties in retaining key employees, Customers, or suppliers of the acquired or divested businesses; • difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, or other integration or divestiture difficulties; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers or Customers; • other events contributing to difficulties in generating future cash flows; • risks associated with the assumption of contingent or undisclosed liabilities of acquisition targets or retention of liabilities for divested businesses; and • difficulties in obtaining or satisfying financing. If we are unable to realize the anticipated operating efficiencies and synergies or other expected transaction benefits, our results of operations might be adversely impacted by the amortization of transaction expenses and acquired assets or by other corrective actions that may be necessary to limit resulting problems. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to recruit and retain qualified management. Our continued success depends, in large part, on our ability to hire and retain highly qualified people and if we are unable to do so, our business and operations may be impaired or disrupted. Competition for highly qualified people is intense and there is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining replacements to fill vacant positions, successors to fill retirements or employees moving to new positions, or other highly qualified personnel. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 