ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This item describes certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. You should consider these risk factors when evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, because our actual results and financial condition might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements should these risks occur. We face other risks besides those highlighted below. These other risks include additional uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial, but may ultimately have a significant impact. Should any of these risks, described below or otherwise, actually occur, our business, financial condition, performance, prospects, value, or results of operations could be negatively affected. The current economic climate may adversely affect us. Adverse economic cycles or conditions and Customer, regulatory or government response thereto, could affect our results of operations. There can be no assurance when these cycles or conditions will occur or when they will begin to improve after they occur. There also can be no assurance as to the strength or length of any recovery from a business downturn or recession. United States and worldwide financial and business conditions are uncertain, and the recent severe recession has had a significant adverse effect on U.S. and global economies, which also has negatively impacted access to capital markets and investment activity within key geographic and market segments served. Credit and liquidity problems may continue to make it difficult for some businesses to access credit markets and obtain financing and may cause some businesses to continue to curtail spending to conserve cash in anticipation of persistent business slowdowns and liquidity needs. If our Customers have difficulty financing their purchases due to tight credit markets or related factors or because of other operational problems they may be experiencing or otherwise decide to curtail their purchases, our business could be adversely affected. Our exposure to bad debt losses could also increase if Customers are unable to pay for products previously ordered and delivered. Also, continuing tightness of credit in financial markets may limit the ability of our lenders to satisfy their obligations to us to provide funding and letters of credit or the ability of our insurers to respond to a claim under an insurance policy. In addition, economic conditions and market volatility have impacted the investment portfolio of our defined benefit pension plans, including a significant decline in fair value since March 31, 2008. Because the values of these pension plan investments have and will fluctuate in response to changing market conditions, the amount of gains or losses that will be recognized in subsequent periods and the impact on the funded status of the plans and future minimum required contributions, if any, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, value, financial conditions or result of operations. Our businesses are highly competitive, and if we fail to compete successfully, our revenues and results of operations may be hurt. We operate in a highly competitive global environment. Our businesses compete with other broad line manufacturers, as well as many smaller businesses specializing in particular products or services, primarily on the basis of brand, design, quality, safety, ease of use, serviceability, price, product features, warranty, delivery, service, and technical support. We face increased competition from new infection prevention, sterile processing, contamination control, and surgical support, cleaning consumables, contract sterilization, and other products and services entering the market. Competitors and potential competitors also are attempting to develop alternate technologies and sterilizing agents, as well as disposable medical instruments and other devices 9 Table of Contents designed to address the risk of contamination. If our products, services, support, distribution and/or cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully, our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to design, manufacture, distribute, and achieve market acceptance of new products with higher functionality and lower costs. Many of our Customers operate businesses characterized by technological change, product innovation and evolving industry standards. Price is a key consideration in their purchasing decisions. To successfully compete, we must continue to design, develop, and improve innovative products. We also must achieve market acceptance of and effectively distribute those products, and reduce production costs. Our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations might be adversely affected if our competitors’ product development capabilities become more effective, if they introduce new or improved products that displace our products or gain market acceptance, or if they begin to produce and sell products at lower prices. If our cost reduction and restructuring efforts are ineffective, our profitability may be hurt or our business otherwise might be adversely affected. We have undertaken various cost reduction and restructuring activities, including the restructuring activities announced in January 2006 and, in particular, the transfer of our Erie, Pennsylvania manufacturing operations to Mexico. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we announced cost reduction activities intended to generate annualized operating expense savings of approximately $30 million through direct and indirect overhead expense reductions and other savings, and, in the third quarter of fiscal 2009, we announced cost reduction activities primarily related to our international operations, which were intended to generate annualized cost savings of approximately $20 million to be realized over the next several years. Most recently we announced a restructuring plan primarily related to the consolidation of our European Healthcare manufacturing operations into two central locations within Europe and the transfer of the remaining operations in our Erie, Pennsylvania facility to our U.S. headquarters in Mentor, Ohio and recorded pre-tax expenses totaling $6.3 million related to these actions in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. These efforts may not produce the full efficiencies and cost reduction benefits we expect or efficiencies and benefits might be delayed or not realized. Implementation costs also might exceed expectations and further cost reduction measures might become necessary, resulting in additional future charges. If these cost reduction and restructuring efforts are not properly implemented or are unsuccessful, we might experience business disruptions or our business otherwise might be adversely affected. Decreased availability or increased costs of raw materials or energy supplies or other supplies might increase our production costs or limit our production capabilities. We purchase raw materials, fabricated and other components, and energy supplies from a variety of suppliers. Key materials include stainless steel, organic chemicals, fuel, cobalt, and plastic components. The availability and prices of raw materials and energy supplies are subject to volatility and are influenced by worldwide economic conditions, speculative action, world supply and demand balances, inventory levels, availability of substitute materials, currency exchange rates, anticipated or perceived shortages, and other factors. In some situations, we may be able to temporarily limit price increases or support availability through supply agreements. Otherwise, raw material prices and availability are subject to numerous factors outside of our control, including those described above. Increases in prices or decreases in availability of raw materials and oil and gas might impair our procurement of necessary materials or our product production, or might increase production costs. In addition, energy costs impact our transportation and distribution and other supply and sales costs. Also, a number of our key materials and components are single-sourced or have a limited number of suppliers, such as cobalt used in our Isomedix operations. Shortages in supply, regulatory requirements, or increases in the price of raw materials, components and energy supplies may adversely impact our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, or results of operations. Our operations, and those of our suppliers, are subject to a variety of business continuity hazards and risks, any of which could interrupt production or operations or otherwise adversely affect our performance, results, or value. Business continuity hazards and other risks include: • explosions, fires, inclement weather, and other disasters; • utility or other mechanical failures; • unscheduled downtime; • labor difficulties; 10 Table of Contents • inability to obtain or maintain any required licenses or permits; • disruption of communications; • data security, preservation and redundancy disruptions; • inability to hire or retain key management or employees; and • disruption of supply or distribution. The occurrence of any of these or other events might disrupt or shut down operations, or otherwise adversely impact the production or profitability of a particular facility, or our operations as a whole. Certain casualties also might cause personal injury and loss of life, or severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, and for casualties occurring at our facilities, result in liability claims against us. Although we maintain property and casualty insurance and liability and similar insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are customary for our industries, our insurance coverages have limits and we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. Should any of the hazards or risks occur, or should our insurance coverage be inadequate or unavailable, our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations might be adversely affected, both during and after the event. We conduct manufacturing, sales and distribution operations on a worldwide basis and are subject to a variety of risks associated with doing business outside the United States. We maintain significant international operations, including operations in Canada, Europe, Asia and Latin America. As a result, we are subject to a number of risks and complications associated with international manufacturing, sales, services, and other operations. These include: • risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; • foreign Customers with longer payment cycles than Customers in the United States; • tax rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the United States, and foreign earnings subject to withholding requirements; • tax laws that restrict our ability to use tax credits, offset gains, or repatriate funds; • tariffs, exchange controls or other trade restrictions including transfer pricing restrictions when products produced in one country are sold to an affiliated entity in another country; • general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate or where end users of our products are situated; • difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries; • difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights or weaker intellectual property right protections in some countries; and • difficulties associated with compliance with a variety of laws and regulations governing international trade, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Implementation and achievement of international growth objectives also may be impeded by political, social, and economic uncertainties or unrest in countries in which we conduct operations or market or distribute our products. In addition, compliance with multiple, and potentially conflicting, international laws and regulations, import and export limitations, anti-corruption laws, and exchange controls may be difficult, burdensome or expensive. For example, we are subject to compliance with various laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. While our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot assure you that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. The occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Consolidations among our healthcare and pharmaceutical Customers may result in a loss of Customers or more significant pricing pressures. A number of our Customers have consolidated. These consolidations are due in part to healthcare cost reduction measures initiated by competitive pressures as well as legislators, regulators and third-party payors. In an effort to attract Customers, some of our competitors have also reduced production costs and lowered prices. This has resulted in greater pricing pressures on us and in some cases loss of Customers. Additional consolidations could result in a loss of Customers or more significant pricing pressures. Additional consolidations and pricing pressures may occur as a result of recent healthcare legislation and economic conditions. A loss of Customers or more significant pricing pressure could have an adverse effect on our business, performance, prospects, value, financial conditions or results of operations. Changes in healthcare laws or government and other third-party payor reimbursement levels to healthcare providers, or failure to meet healthcare reimbursement or other requirements might negatively impact our business. We sell many of our products to hospitals and other healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers. Many of these Customers are subject to or supported by government programs or receive reimbursement for services from third-party payors, such as government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private insurance plans, and managed care programs. In the United States, many of these programs set maximum reimbursement levels for these healthcare services and can have complex reimbursement requirements. In addition, the recent healthcare legislation imposes additional taxes on device manufacturers, and the overall impact of the legislation is uncertain. Outside the United States, reimbursement systems vary significantly by country. However, government-managed healthcare systems control reimbursement for healthcare services in many foreign countries. In these countries, as well as in the United States, public budgetary constraints may significantly impact the ability of hospitals, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and other Customers supported by such systems to purchase our products. If government or other third-party payors deny or change coverage, reduce their current levels of reimbursement for healthcare services, or otherwise implement measures to regulate pricing or contain costs or if our costs increase more rapidly than reimbursement level or permissible pricing increases or we do not satisfy the standards or requirements for reimbursement, our revenues or profitability may suffer and our business, performance, value, prospects, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, recently enacted in the U.S., contains provisions that could have a material impact on our business. Among other provisions, this legislation imposes an excise tax on medical devices manufactured or offered for sale in the United States beginning in 2013. Various health care reform proposals have also emerged at the state level, and we are unable to predict which, if any, of those proposals will be enacted. However, the ultimate effect of health care reform legislation or any future legislation or regulation could have a material adverse affect on our business, performance, value, prospects, financial condition, or results of operation. We are subject to extensive regulatory requirements and must receive and maintain regulatory clearance or approval for many products and operations. Failure to receive or maintain, or delays in receiving, clearance or approvals may hurt our revenues, profitability, financial condition, or value. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation in both the United States and in other countries where we do business. In the U.S, our products and services are regulated by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. In many foreign countries, sales of our products are subject to extensive regulations that may or may not be comparable to those of the FDA. In Europe, our products are regulated primarily by country and community regulations of those countries within the European Economic Area and must conform to the requirements of those authorities. Government regulation applies to nearly all aspects of testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storing, recordkeeping, reporting, promoting, distributing, and importing or exporting of medical devices, products, and services. In general, unless an exemption applies, a sterilization, decontamination or medical device or product or service must receive regulatory approval or clearance before it can be marketed or sold. Modifications to existing products or the marketing of new uses for existing products also may require regulatory approvals, approval supplements or clearances. If we are unable to obtain any required approvals, approval supplements or clearances for any modification to a previously cleared or approved device, we may be required to cease manufacturing and sale, or recall or restrict the use of such modified device, pay fines, or take other action until such time as appropriate clearance or approval is obtained. Regulatory agencies may refuse to grant approval or clearance, or review and disagree with our interpretation of approvals or clearances, or with our decision that regulatory approval is not required or has been maintained. Regulatory submissions may require the provision of additional data and may be 12 Table of Contents time consuming and costly, and their outcome is uncertain. Regulatory agencies may also change policies, adopt additional regulations, or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay approval or clearance of devices, or could impact our ability to market a previously cleared, approved, or unregulated device. Our failure to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA or other applicable regulatory requirements in the United States or elsewhere might subject us to administratively or judicially imposed sanctions. These sanctions include, among others, warning letters, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties, injunctions, debarment, product seizure or detention, product recalls and total or partial suspension of production, sale and/or promotion. The failure to receive or maintain, or delays in the receipt of, relevant United States or international qualifications could have a material adverse affect on our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition or results of operations. Refer also for further information to the “Risk Factor” below titled, “We may be adversely affected by product liability claims or other legal actions or regulatory or compliance matters, including the Warning Letter and Consent Decree” and the “Risk Factor” below titled “Our business may be adversely affected as a result of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration notices to healthcare administrators, and related matters”, and the “Risk Factor” below titled “Compliance with the Consent Decree may be more costly and burdensome than anticipated.” and to Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”. Our products are subject to recalls and restrictions, even after receiving United States or foreign regulatory clearance or approval. Ongoing medical device reporting regulations require that we report to appropriate governmental authorities in the United States and/or other countries when our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. Governmental authorities can require product recalls or impose restrictions for product design, manufacturing, labeling, clearance, or other issues. For the same reasons, we may voluntarily elect to recall or restrict the use of a product. Any recall or restriction could divert managerial and financial resources and might harm our reputation among our Customers and other healthcare professionals who use or recommend the products. Product recalls, restrictions, suspensions, re-labeling, or other change might have a material adverse affect on our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, or results of operations. We may be adversely affected by product liability claims or other legal actions or regulatory or compliance matters, including the Warning Letter and Consent Decree. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims and other legal and regulatory actions. A significant increase in the number, severity, amount, or scope of these claims and actions may result in substantial costs and harm our reputation or otherwise adversely affect product sales and our business. Product liability claims and other legal and regulatory actions may also distract management from other business responsibilities. We are also subject to a variety of other types of claims, proceedings, investigations, and litigation initiated by government agencies or third parties and other potential risks and liabilities. These include compliance matters, product regulation or safety, taxes, employee benefit plans, employment discrimination, health and safety, environmental, antitrust, customs, import/export, government contract compliance, financial controls or reporting, intellectual property, allegations of misrepresentation, false claims or false statements, commercial claims, claims regarding promotion of our products and services, or other similar or different matters. Any such claims, proceedings, investigations or litigation, regardless of the merits, might result in substantial costs, restrictions on product use or sales, or otherwise injure our business. Administratively or judicially imposed or agreed sanctions might include warning letters, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties, loss of tax benefits, injunctions, product seizure, recalls, suspensions or restrictions, re-labeling, detention, and/or debarment. We also might be required to take actions such as payment of substantial amounts, or revision of financial statements, or to take the following types of actions with respect to our products, services, or business: • redesign, re-label, restrict, or recall products; • cease manufacturing and selling products; • seizure of product inventory; • court injunction restricting or prohibiting further marketing and sale of products or services; • consent decree, which could result in further regulatory constraints; • dedication of significant internal and external resources and costs to respond to and comply with legal and regulatory issues and constraints; • claims, litigation, and other proceedings brought by Customers, users, governmental agencies, and others; 13 Table of Contents • disruption of product improvements and product launches; • discontinuation of certain product lines or services; or • other restrictions or limitations on product sales, use or operation, or other activities or business practices. Some product replacements or substitutions may not be possible or may be prohibitively costly or time consuming. Examples of the types of matters described above are the warning letter we received from the FDA on May 16, 2008 regarding our SYSTEM 1® sterile processing system, and the Consent Decree entered on April 20, 2010. In summary, the warning letter outlined the FDA’s assertion that significant changes or modifications had been made in the design, components, method of manufacture or intended use of the device, beyond the FDA’s 1988 clearance of the device, such that the FDA asserted a new premarket notification submission was required. After extensive discussion, negotiation and interaction between FDA and us, a consent decree was agreed upon and approved by the Federal District Court for the Northern District of Ohio on April 20, 2010 (the “Consent Decree”). As a consequence of these interactions and the Consent Decree there are numerous restrictions on us with respect to SYSTEM 1 and other liquid chemical sterilizing and disinfecting devices, components and accessories. For example, we have discontinued all sales of our SYSTEM 1 processor to U.S. Customers and will discontinue the provision of service, parts, accessories and sterilant for SYSTEM 1 units in the U.S. no later than August 2, 2011. As a result of these current and future restrictions and commitments, our revenues, earnings, business, performance, prospects or value may be negatively impacted. The Consent Decree also prohibits the sale of liquid chemical sterilizing or disinfecting products that do not have FDA clearance, describes various process and compliance issues, and defines penalties for non-compliance. (For more information regarding this warning letter and the Consent Decree, see the “Risk Factor” titled “Compliance with the Consent Decree may be more costly and burdensome than anticipated” and “Legal Proceedings” below.) The Consent Decree, claims by Customers and other parties, and other events or impact associated with these matters could materially affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, or results of operations. The ongoing impact of the Consent Decree, or the impact of any legal, regulatory, or compliance claims, proceeding, investigation, or litigation, is difficult to predict. A legal, regulatory or compliance claim or matter regarding any significant product, service, or obligation of ours, could materially and adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, or results of operations. We maintain product liability and other insurance with coverages believed to be adequate. However, product liability or other claims may exceed insurance coverage limits, fines, penalties and regulatory sanctions may not be covered by insurance, or insurance may not continue to be available or available on commercially reasonable terms. Additionally, our insurers might deny claim coverage for valid or other reasons or may become insolvent. Our business may be adversely affected as a result of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration notices to healthcare administrators and device manufacturers, and related matters. FDA’s December 3, 2009 notice advised healthcare administrators that the FDA believed we had significantly modified SYSTEM 1, and therefore, were required to submit a new premarket notification to the FDA. As a result, the agency stated that it had not determined that SYSTEM 1 was safe or effective for sterilizing medical devices. The FDA recommended in the notice that Customers transition to an acceptable alternative as soon as possible if they have one; if not, that they promptly assess their patient care needs and sterilization and disinfection requirements and take steps to obtain legally-marketed SYSTEM 1 substitutes. Subsequently, FDA announced that it was extending the total recommended time period for transitioning from SYSTEM 1 in the U.S., through August 2, 2011. On February 22, 2010, FDA provided a notice to device manufacturers, recommending that manufacturers re-label their devices to identify alternative, legally-marketed, reprocessing methods. As a result of these notices, possible future FDA recommendations, Customer or patient reaction or claims, or other events, Customers may more quickly transition away from or terminate the use of SYSTEM 1, reduce or discontinue the purchase of sterilant and services relating to SYSTEM 1, reduce or discontinue purchases of other STERIS products, including other STERIS products that the FDA considers acceptable alternatives or take other action that could materially adversely affect our business. Customers also may be more disinclined to purchase our new SYSTEM 1E Liquid Chemical Sterilant Processing System. In connection with this transition, we are offering rebates and other considerations to Customers. As a result, revenues lost, transition costs incurred, incentives or other consideration provided, claims and compliance costs, and other expenses incurred and impacts resulting from these circumstances, may have an material adverse effect on our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition or results of operations. For more information regarding this letter and the SYSTEM 1 situation, see the “Risk Factor” titled “We may be adversely affected by product liability claims or other legal actions or regulatory or compliance matters, including the Warning Letter and Consent Decree” appearing earlier in this Item 1A and “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 of Part 1. 14 Table of Contents Existing and new Customers may not purchase or use the new liquid chemical sterilant system or related consumables consistent with the purchase and use of the existing SYSTEM 1®. In January 2009, we submitted a 510(k) premarket notification to the FDA for a new liquid chemical sterilant processing system intended to serve as successor to the SYSTEM 1. We were notified by the FDA on April 6, 2010 that this new system, known as the SYSTEM 1E Liquid Chemical Sterilant Processing System, which is indicated for liquid chemical sterilization of cleaned, immersible, and reusable critical and semi-critical heat sensitive medical devices in healthcare facilities, had been cleared for marketing and sale. However, there can be no assurance as to the extent that such new liquid chemical sterilant processing system will receive market acceptance or that any such acceptance will be consistent with the prior market demand for SYSTEM 1. Moreover, initially margins for SYSTEM 1E units, sterilant and service will be lower than for SYSTEM 1. In connection with this transition, we are offering rebates and other considerations to Customers. If sales or use of the SYSTEM 1E or related parts, accessories, sterilant or service are significantly less than the existing for SYSTEM 1, or it start-up, warranty, guarantee, transition or other costs are greater than anticipated for SYSTEM 1E that could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, performance, value, financial condition or results of operations. We may not be able to produce units of the new liquid chemical sterilant system quickly enough to meet Customer demand. As noted elsewhere, because we are transitioning away from SYSTEM 1 in the U.S., U.S. Customers currently using SYSTEM 1 will need to position themselves to meet their sterilization and high level disinfecting needs using other products and systems. We believe that the SYSTEM 1E recently cleared by the FDA will meet these needs for a large number of current SYSTEM 1 users. However, to the extent we are unable to produce SYSTEM 1E units in sufficient numbers to meet demand of existing SYSTEM 1 Customers, those Customers who need to replace SYSTEM 1 units and who are unable to obtain SYSTEM 1E and are unwilling to purchase other alternative systems and products sold by us may have to purchase alternative systems and products from competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, performance, value, financial condition or results of operations. Compliance with the Consent Decree may be more costly and burdensome than anticipated. The Consent Decree contains numerous requirements that could create significant costs and compliance risks. The Consent Decree, which is expected to remain in force for a minimum period of five years, includes provisions permitting the government to take corrective actions against us if it determines we have violated the Consent Decree, including the right to issue an order requiring cessation of production or take other corrective action, and in some cases we may be required to implement the order before bringing the matter before a court. Failures to comply with the Consent Decree or FDA regulations respecting liquid chemical sterilizing or disinfecting devices also may result in liquidated damages specified in the Consent Decree of up to ten million dollars per calendar year. If costs associated with compliance with the Consent Decree significantly exceed the amounts anticipated, or if we violate the terms of the Consent Decree, our business, performance, value, financial condition, prospects or results of operations may be adversely affected. We engage in acquisitions and affiliations, divestitures, and other business arrangements. Our growth may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully identify, price, and integrate strategic business candidates or otherwise optimize our business portfolio. Our success depends, in part, on strategic acquisitions and joint ventures, which are intended to complement or expand our businesses, divestiture of non-strategic businesses, and other actions to optimize our portfolio of businesses. This strategy depends upon our ability to identify, appropriately price, and complete these types of business development transactions or arrangements and to obtain any necessary financing. Our success will also depend on our ability to integrate the businesses acquired or to develop satisfactory working arrangements with our strategic partners in joint ventures or other affiliations, or to divest or realign businesses. Competition for strategic business candidates may result in increases in costs and price for acquisition and market valuation issues may reduce the value available for divestiture of non-strategic businesses. These types of transactions are also subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: • delays in realizing the benefits of the transactions; • diversion of management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • difficulties in retaining key employees, Customers, or suppliers of the acquired or divested businesses; • difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, or other integration or divestiture difficulties; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers or Customers; 15 Table of Contents • other events contributing to difficulties in generating future cash flows; • risks associated with the assumption of contingent or undisclosed liabilities of acquisition targets or retention of liabilities for divested businesses; and • difficulties in obtaining or satisfying financing. If we are unable to realize the anticipated operating efficiencies and synergies or other expected transaction benefits, our business, prospects, performance, value, financial condition or results of operation may be adversely impacted. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to recruit and retain qualified management and other personnel, or if the Consent Decree or other compliance matters adversely impact our personnel. Our continued success depends, in large part, on our ability to hire and retain highly qualified people and if we are unable to do so, our business and operations may be impaired or disrupted. Competition for highly qualified people is intense and there is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining replacements to fill vacant positions, successors to fill retirements or employees moving to new positions, or other highly qualified personnel. Our CEO and Chief Technology Officer are parties to the Consent Decree, and other officers and directors are also subject to its terms. If the Consent Decree or other legal, regulatory or compliance matters create significant distraction or diversion of significant or unanticipated resources or attention, that could have a material adverse effect on the responsibilities and retention of these persons, and on our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition or results of operation. Our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by difficulties in acquiring or maintaining a proprietary intellectual ownership position. To maintain our competitive position, we need to obtain patent or other proprietary rights for new and improved products and to maintain and enforce our existing patents and other proprietary rights. We typically apply for patents in the United States and in strategic foreign countries. We may also acquire patents through acquisitions. A 2007 United States Supreme Court decision increases the difficulty of obtaining patent protection in the United States. The actual scope and impact of the decision on our existing patent rights or patent applications and those of others will not be known until other court rulings interpret and apply the decision. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, know-how, and confidentiality agreements to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology. These measures afford only limited protection, and competitors may gain access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Litigation may also be brought against us claiming that we have violated the intellectual property rights of others. Litigation may be costly and may divert management’s attention from other matters. Additionally, in some foreign countries with weaker intellectual property rights, it may be difficult to maintain and enforce patents and other proprietary rights or defend against claims of infringement. If we are unable to obtain necessary patents, our patents and other proprietary rights are successfully challenged, or competitors independently develop substantially equivalent information and technology or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology, our business, performance, value, financial condition, or results of operations may be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 16 Table of Contents 