Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our results are affected by changes in worldwide economic and capital markets conditions. We derived 19.5% and 20.5% revenues in 2012 and 2011, respectively, from outside the United States. Our business may be adversely affected by factors in the United States and other countries that are beyond our control, such as downturns in economic activity or labor conditions in a specific country or region. Our success will depend on our ability to sell our MGC Diagnostics cardiorespiratory products into our core hospital, clinic and physician office markets. We sell our MGC Diagnostics cardiorespiratory diagnostic products and services to hospitals, clinics and physician offices. As a result of the disruptive and uncertain economic conditions that emerged in recent years and the related cost-containment measures initiated by many of our customers, we believe that a challenging environment for the sale of our MGC Diagnostics products is likely to continue in fiscal 2013. Our association with Group Purchasing Organizations may result in reduced gross margins. Price competition or negotiated lower prices with GPOs may exert downward pressure on prices we are able to charge for our products. We cannot ensure that we will be able to offset any downward price pressure through corresponding cost reductions. Any failure to offset this pressure could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Healthcare policy changes, including national legislation to reform the U.S. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on our business. There have been and continue to be proposals by the federal government, state governments, regulators and third-party payors to control healthcare costs and, more generally, to reform the U.S. healthcare system. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act includes a 2.3% excise tax on all U.S. medical device sales beginning in calendar 2013. To the extent we are unable to pass this tax on to our customers, our profitability may be affected. In addition, there are many programs and requirements for which the details have not yet been fully established or the consequences not fully understood. These provisions may affect aspects of our business. If we are unable to regain profitability in 2013 and beyond, our liquidity may be adversely affected. Although we were profitable in fiscal 2006 and 2007, we were unprofitable in fiscal 2008 through 2012 and had an accumulated deficit of $6.7 million as of October 31, 2012. While we believe that our existing cash and investments balance of $9.7 million as of October 31, 2012 will be adequate to support operations for the next fiscal year or more, we must ultimately regain sustained profitability or obtain additional financing to be able to meet our future cash flow requirements, and we cannot ensure that we will be able to achieve either of these. The financial soundness of our vendors could affect our business and results of operations. We rely on third party vendors for certain components used in our products. We purchase a number of significant components, such as capacitors, batteries and integrated circuits, from sole source suppliers. Although we attempt to maintain sufficient quantities of inventory of these components to minimize production delays or interruptions, we cannot ensure that we will find suitable alternatives at reasonable prices, if at all, or that any alternatives will remain available to us. Our inability to obtain acceptable components in a timely manner or find and maintain suitable replacement suppliers for components would have a material adverse effect on us, including our ability to manufacture our products. As a result of the disruptions in the financial markets and other macro-economic challenges currently affecting the economy of the United States and other parts of the world, our vendors may experience cash flow concerns. As a result, vendors may increase their prices, reduce their output or change terms of sales. Any demands by vendors for different payment terms may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Technology in the medical device industry changes rapidly. Rapid technological change, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions are all characteristics of the medical device industry. We face intense competition from other device manufacturers that may have access to greater resources. Our products may be rendered obsolete as a result of future innovations. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval and introducing products before we do. Any of these developments could have a significant negative impact on our business and results of operations. Our future operations are dependent upon variables outside our control. Successful implementation of our business plan depends on the interaction of many variables, including the effects of changing industry conditions and new competition. While we believe that our business plan reflects reasonable judgments in assessing those risks, we cannot ensure that influences not foreseen by us will not adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan strategies. While we believe that our business plan projections are in line with achievable performance levels, we cannot ensure that we will be able to obtain, and sustain, projected sales revenue. 14 Table of Contents Protection of intellectual property is critical to our business. Patents and trademarks are critical in the medical device industry. We believe strongly in protecting our intellectual property and have a long history of obtaining patents, when available, in connection with our research and product development programs. We own a number of United States and foreign patents. We also own registered trademarks, and have applied for other trademarks in the United States and foreign countries. We cannot ensure that we will be granted patents and trademarks in the future, or that any patents and trademarks that we now hold or may be granted, or under which we have held license rights, will be valid or otherwise be of value to us. Even if our patents and trademarks are valid, others may be able to introduce non-infringing competitive products. Although patent and intellectual property disputes in the medical device area have often been settled through licensing agreements or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial, and we cannot ensure that necessary licenses would be available to us on satisfactory terms or at all. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary intellectual property, including know-how, in part, through confidentiality agreements, non-compete agreements and assignment of invention provisions in agreements with employees, consultants and other parties, as well as through contractual exclusivity with certain suppliers. We cannot ensure that these agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known to or independently developed by competitors. We are dependent upon our senior management and other key personnel. Our success depends largely on effective leadership from our senior management and other key personnel. Competition for qualified personnel with sufficient and relevant experience in the medical device industry is intense. Accordingly, the loss of the services of these individuals, or the inability to hire additional key individuals as required, could have a material adverse effect on us, including our current and future product development efforts. In fiscal 2011, we hired a new chief executive officer and chief financial officer and, in fiscal 2012, we hired a new executive vice president of associate services, executive vice president of global marketing, engineering and corporate strategy and executive vice president of global sales. To achieve future success, our senior management, including new members of management, must make a successful transition into their new roles and ultimately develop and implement a strategic plan. Anti-Takeover provisions in Minnesota law may make a hostile takeover of our business more difficult. We are governed by the provisions of Sections 302A.671 and 302A.673 of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act. These anti-takeover provisions could potentially operate to deny shareholders the receipt of a premium on their common stock and may also have a depressive effect on the market price of our common stock. Section 302A.671 generally provides that the shares of a corporation acquired in a “control share acquisition” have no voting rights unless voting rights are approved by the shareholders in a prescribed manner. A “control share acquisition” is generally defined as an acquisition of beneficial ownership of shares that would, when added to all other shares beneficially owned by the acquiring person, entitle the acquiring person to have voting power of 20% or more in the election of directors. Section 302A.673 prohibits a public corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested shareholder” for a period of four years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. A “business combination” includes mergers, asset sales and other transactions. An “interested shareholder” is a person who is the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the corporation’s voting stock. Reference is made to the detailed terms of Sections 302A.671 and 302A.673 of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act. We have also entered into agreements with certain executive officers that provide for certain benefits upon a change of control. These agreements would make any sale of the Company more expensive to a third party. 15 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 