Item 1A. Risk Factors Our future operating results could differ materially from the results described in this report due to the risks and uncertainties related to our business, including those discussed below. Furthermore, these factors represent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those implied by forward-looking statements. We refer you to our “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information,” at the beginning of this report, which identifies the forward-looking statements in this report. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. Others that we do not know about now, or that we do not now think are important, may impair our business or the trading price of our securities. Company Risks We have a history of losses and expect future losses. We have had annual losses from operations since our inception in 1984. In the fiscal years ended October 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, we had losses from operations of $47,312,000, $41,832,000 and $29,143,000. We had an accumulated deficit of $499,009,000 as of October 31, 2005. We anticipate that we will continue to generate losses for the next several years. Even if Hemopure were to be approved by the FDA or analogous European regulatory authorities, we might not be able to achieve profitable operations. We require significant funding in order to continue to operate. We expect that our cash on hand at October 31, 2005 together with funds raised in December 2005 and January 2006 will fund operations through August 2006. Sufficient funds may not be available to us thereafter or on terms that we deem acceptable, if they are available at all. Our auditors have modified their report for our fiscal year ended 17 Table of Contents October 31, 2005 with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. This modification may negatively impact our capital raising efforts. We are required under the Nasdaq Stock Market’s Marketplace Rules to obtain stockholder approval for any issuance of additional equity securities that would comprise more than 20 percent of our total shares of common stock outstanding before the issuance of the securities at a discount to the greater of book or market value in an offering that is not deemed to be a “public offering” by Nasdaq. Funding of our operations in the future may require stockholder approval for purposes of complying with the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules. We cannot assure you that we will not require such approval to raise additional funds or that we would be successful in obtaining any such required stockholder approval. Failure to raise sufficient additional funds will significantly impair or possibly cause us to cease the development, manufacture and sale of our products and our ability to operate. The development and regulatory processes for seeking and obtaining approval to market Hemopure in the United States and the European Union have been and will continue to be costly. We will require substantial working capital to develop, manufacture and sell Hemopure and to finance our operations until such time, if ever, as we can generate positive cash flow. If Hemopure is approved by the FDA or the analogous European regulatory authorities, we expect that we will need to increase our manufacturing capacity, for which we will require significant additional funding. If additional financing is not available when needed or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize Hemopure or to continue to operate. A sustained period in which financing is not available could force us to go out of business. Our auditors have modified their report for our fiscal year ended October 31, 2005 with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. This modification may negatively impact our capital raising efforts. Our funds on hand, amounts raised subsequent to year-end and forecasted sales for fiscal 2006 at October 31, 2005 are not sufficient to fund our planned operations through the first quarter of fiscal 2007 and, as a result, the audit report of Ernst & Young LLP, our independent auditor, on our fiscal 2005 consolidated financial statements includes a going concern modification. This type of modification typically would indicate that our recurring losses from operations and current lack of sufficient funds to sustain operations through the end of fiscal 2006 raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. To remain a going concern we require significant funding. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents on hand of approximately $10.5 million as of October 31, 2005, together with our other current assets as of October 31, 2005 and the proceeds from offering of securities in December 2005 and January 2006, are sufficient to fund our operations through August 2006. The inclusion of a going concern modification in Ernst & Young LLP’s audit opinion may materially and adversely affect our stock price and our ability to raise new capital. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. If we became unable to continue as a going concern, we would have to liquidate our assets and we might receive significantly less than the values at which they are carried on our consolidated financial statements. Any shortfall in the proceeds from the liquidation of our assets would directly reduce the amounts, if any, that holders of our common stock could receive in liquidation. If we cannot retain the personnel we need, our costs will rise significantly. If we cannot hire or retain the best people, our operations will suffer. We may experience the loss of personnel, including executives and other employees, as a result of attrition, which we have previously experienced. We expect that in the future we will need to recruit and retain personnel for important positions. We may be unable to do so, in particular if we are unable to raise additional capital. 18 Table of Contents We may fail to obtain FDA approval for Hemopure, in which event we cannot market Hemopure in the United States, which would have negative consequences for the Company. We will not be able to market Hemopure in the United States unless and until we receive FDA approval. In pursuing both the ischemia and trauma indications for Hemopure, as a prerequisite to further clinical trials for Hemopure in the United States, we must address the FDA’s safety and other relevant questions arising out of our previously-submitted BLA for an orthopedic surgery indication. Addressing these questions requires considerable data gathering and analysis. We must rely on contractors to complete some of the work. We have been delayed, and could be further delayed, in responding either by the contractors’ failure or inability to timely complete their tasks, or by other unanticipated delays or difficulties and lack of resources. The FDA may find that responses we may give do not adequately address its questions and that the results of preclinical animal studies the FDA has asked for do not adequately address its concerns. In turn, we would be indefinitely unable to pursue development of Hemopure in the United States, a very large, key market. Moreover, even if we adequately address the FDA’s questions, we will need to obtain FDA acceptance of the protocols for, and to complete, human clinical trials to obtain FDA approval for Hemopure for ischemia and trauma indications. We cannot predict when or whether we will submit an IND for an ischemia indication. Consequently, we do not know whether or when we will be able to commence a U.S. clinical trial of Hemopure for an ischemia indication, or that we will be able to conduct or satisfactorily conclude additional clinical trials required to obtain FDA marketing authorization for this indication. In the case of the trauma indication, the NMRC has primary responsibility for designing and seeking FDA acceptance of a two-stage Phase 2/3 clinical protocol for trauma in the out-of-hospital setting and is expected to be principally responsible for conducting the trial. The NMRC has filed an IND, and the FDA has put the proposed trauma protocol on clinical hold. If the FDA ultimately grants acceptance and the trial is commenced and concluded, the results of the trial may not lead to authorization for marketing Hemopure for the proposed trauma indication. In addition, future or existing governmental action or changes in FDA policies or precedents may result in delays or rejection of an application for marketing approval. The FDA has considerable discretion in determining whether to grant marketing approval for a drug, and may delay or deny approval even in circumstances where the applicant’s clinical trials have proceeded in compliance with FDA procedures and regulations and have met the established end points of the trials. Despite all of our efforts, the FDA could refuse to grant marketing authorization for Hemopure. Challenges to FDA determinations are generally time consuming and costly, and rarely succeed. We can give no assurance that we will obtain FDA marketing authorization for Hemopure for any indication. The failure to obtain any approval would have severe negative consequences for our company. If we fail to obtain regulatory approvals in foreign jurisdictions, we will not be able to market Hemopure abroad. We also intend to seek to market Hemopure in international markets, including the European Union. Whether or not FDA marketing authorization has been obtained, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals in order to market our products in the European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions. The regulatory approval processes differ among these jurisdictions, and the time needed to secure marketing approvals may be even longer than that required for FDA approval. These applications may require the completion of additional preclinical and clinical studies. Approval in any one jurisdiction does not ensure approval in a different jurisdiction. As a result, obtaining foreign approvals will require additional expenditures and significant amounts of time. We can give no assurance that we will obtain marketing authorization for Hemopure in any foreign jurisdiction other than that already obtained in South Africa. Clinical trials are extremely costly and subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. To gain regulatory approval from the FDA and analogous European regulatory authorities for the commercial sale of any product, including Hemopure, we must demonstrate in clinical trials, and satisfy the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities as to, the safety and efficacy of the product. Clinical trials are expensive and time-consuming, as is the regulatory review process. Clinical trials are also subject to numerous risks and uncertainties not within our 19 Table of Contents control. For example, data we obtain from preclinical and clinical studies are susceptible to varying interpretations that could impede regulatory approval. Further, some patients in our clinical trials may have a high risk of death, age-related disease or other adverse medical events that may not be related to our product. These events may affect the statistical analysis of the safety and efficacy of our product. If we obtain marketing authorization for a product, the authorization will be limited to the indication approved. In addition, many factors could delay or result in termination of ongoing or future clinical trials. Results from ongoing or completed preclinical or clinical studies or analyses could raise concerns over the safety or efficacy of a product candidate. For example, in April 2003 the FDA placed a proposed Phase 2 clinical trial of Hemopure for the treatment of trauma in the in-hospital setting on clinical hold citing safety concerns based on a review of data from our Phase 3 clinical trial in patients undergoing surgery. Recently it placed a clinical hold on a trauma trial proposed by the NMRC. We cannot assure investors that the FDA will not place other clinical trials we sponsor or others may sponsor on hold in the future. A clinical trial may also experience slow patient enrollment. The rate of completion of our clinical trials is dependent in large part on the rate of patient enrollment. There may be limited availability of patients who meet the criteria for certain clinical trials. Delays in planned patient enrollment can result in increased development costs and delays in regulatory approvals. Further, we rely on investigating physicians and the hospital trial sites to enroll patients. At our recommendation, the South African hospital that is the sole site for our trauma trial interrupted enrollment in late 2004 to address site procedures, not product related issues. Enrollment at that site continues to be slow. In addition, patients may experience adverse medical events or side effects resulting in delays, whether or not the events or the side effects relate to the study material, and there may be a real or perceived lack of effectiveness of, or safety issues associated with, the product we are testing. We experienced one such delay in our now completed European coronary angioplasty trial. If we do not have the financial resources to fund trials required to develop Hemopure for multiple potential indications, our success as a company will be adversely affected. We cannot sell Hemopure for any indication unless we receive regulatory approval for that indication. Regulatory authorities generally require a separate marketing approval for each proposed indication for the use of Hemopure in the United States. In order to market Hemopure for more than one indication, we will have to design additional clinical trials, submit the trial designs to applicable regulatory authorities for review and complete those trials successfully. If any applicable regulatory authority approves Hemopure for an indication, it may require a label cautioning against Hemopure’s use for indications for which it has not been approved. We may not have funds available to try to exploit Hemopure for all of its potential indications. Our potential revenues will be impaired by limitations on Hemopure’s use. The Securities and Exchange Commission has filed a civil injunctive proceeding against us, two of our former officers and one of our current officers. We and several of our former and current officers and directors are subject to consolidated class action lawsuits, and we and several of our former and current directors and officers are subject to consolidated derivative actions. As discussed in detail above, in September 2005, the SEC filed a civil proceeding against us, two former officers, and one current officer, following an investigation that began in 2003. The SEC is seeking a permanent injunction restraining and enjoining the defendants from violating or aiding and abetting violations of Federal securities laws, a civil monetary penalty from each of the defendants, and an order barring the former and current officer defendants from serving as officers or directors of any publicly-traded company. Following our first announcement of the SEC investigation, a number of lawsuits were filed against us and several of our former and current directors and officers. We can provide no assurance as to the outcome of any of these proceedings. Members of our board of directors and management may spend considerable time and effort defending against any class action lawsuits, the action brought by the SEC and derivative actions. This expenditure of time and effort may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may incur substantial costs in connection with these proceedings, lawsuits and derivative actions, including significant legal expenses, fines, judgments or settlements that exceed the amount of, or are not covered by, our insurance policies. In addition, the uncertainty about the possible effect of 20 Table of Contents these matters on our financial position and results of operations may adversely affect our stock price and our ability to raise capital. The litigation matters described under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”, and any other litigation matters with which we become involved, may harm our business and financial condition if they result in substantial fines, judgments or settlements that exceed the amount of coverage under our insurance policies, or if such fines, judgments or settlements are not covered by our insurance policies. Our director and officer liability insurance policies provide limited liability protection relating to the SEC action, the securities class actions and derivative lawsuits against us and certain of our current and former officers and directors. If these policies do not adequately cover expenses and liabilities relating to these proceedings, our financial condition could be materially harmed. The lawsuits may make renewal of our director and officer liability insurance in July 2006 or thereafter expensive or unavailable. Increased premiums could materially harm our financial results in future periods. The inability to obtain this coverage due to its unavailability or prohibitively expensive premiums would make it more difficult to retain and attract officers and directors and expose us to potentially self-funding any future liabilities ordinarily mitigated by director and officer liability insurance. The U.S. Department of Labor is currently investigating our medical plan and 401(k) plan (capital accumulation plan). We are providing plan documents and other information to the Department in response to the Department’s requests, which appear at this time to be routine. If we cannot find appropriate marketing partners, we may not be able to market and distribute Hemopure effectively. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to market and distribute Hemopure effectively. We have no experience in the sale or marketing of medical products for humans. In the event that we obtain FDA approval of Hemopure, we may choose initially to market Hemopure using an independent distributor. Any such distributor: • might not be successful in marketing Hemopure; • might, at its discretion, limit the amount and timing of resources it devotes to marketing Hemopure; and • might terminate its agreement with us and abandon our products at any time whether or not permitted by the applicable agreement. If we do not enter into a satisfactory distributorship agreement, we may be required to seek an alternative arrangement such as an alliance with a pharmaceutical company, or recruiting, training and retaining a marketing staff and sales force of our own. We may not be successful in obtaining satisfactory distributorship agreements or entering into alternative arrangements. We continue to experience delays in market launch of Hemopure in South Africa. If we fail to establish a revenue stream in South Africa, we might have to withdraw from that market. If we cannot generate adequate, profitable sales of Hemopure, we will not be successful. To succeed, we must develop Hemopure commercially and sell adequate quantities of Hemopure at a high enough price to generate a profit. We may not accomplish either of these objectives. To date, we have focused our efforts on developing Hemopure, establishing its safety and efficacy and seeking marketing approval. Uncertainty exists regarding the potential size of the market for Hemopure and the price that we can charge for it. Additionally, the size of the market will be affected by the indication(s) for which Hemopure is approved and will be greatly reduced if reimbursement for the cost of Hemopure is not available from health insurance companies or government programs. 21 Table of Contents If we cannot obtain market acceptance of Hemopure, we will not be able to generate adequate, profitable sales. Even if we succeed in obtaining marketing approval for Hemopure, a number of factors may affect future sales of our product. These factors include: • whether and how quickly physicians accept Hemopure as a cost-effective and therapeutic alternative to other products; and • whether medical care providers or the public accept the use of a bovine-derived protein as a therapeutic in ischemia or any other indication particularly in light of public perceptions in the United States, Europe and elsewhere about the risk of “mad cow disease.” If we fail to comply with good manufacturing practices, we may not be able to sell our products. To obtain the approval of the FDA and analogous European regulatory authorities to sell Hemopure, we must demonstrate to them that we can manufacture Hemopure in compliance with the applicable good manufacturing practices, commonly known as GMPs. GMPs are stringent requirements that apply to all aspects of the manufacturing process. We are subject to inspections of the FDA and analogous European regulatory authorities at any time to determine whether we are in compliance with GMP requirements. If we fail to manufacture in compliance with GMPs, these regulatory authorities may refuse to approve Hemopure or may take other enforcement actions with respect to Hemopure. The manufacturing process for Hemopure is complicated and time-consuming, and we may experience problems that would limit our ability to manufacture and sell Hemopure. Our products are biologics and require product characterization steps that are more complicated, time-consuming and costly than those required for most chemical pharmaceuticals. Accordingly, we employ multiple steps to attempt to control the manufacturing processes. Minor deviations in these manufacturing processes or other problems could result in unacceptable changes in the products that result in lot failures, increased production scrap, shipment delays, product recalls or product liability, all of which could negatively impact our results of operations. We will face risks, including the risk of scale-up of our processes, in the construction of any new manufacturing capacity, and in turn could encounter delays, higher than usual rejects, additional reviews and tests of units produced and other costs attendant to an inability to manufacture saleable product. If we were unable to use our manufacturing facilities in Massachusetts or Pennsylvania, we would not be able to manufacture for an extended period of time. We manufacture at a single location located in Massachusetts with raw material sourcing and initial processing in Pennsylvania. Damage to either of these manufacturing facilities due to fire, contamination, natural disaster, power loss, riots, unauthorized entry or other events could cause us to cease manufacturing. For example, if our Massachusetts manufacturing facility were destroyed, it could take approximately two years or more to rebuild and qualify it. In the reconstruction period, we would not be able to manufacture product and thus would have no supply of Hemopure for research and development, clinical trials or sales following exhaustion of finished goods in inventory. A new facility would take longer to construct. If Hemopure receives regulatory approval, we must expand our manufacturing capacity to develop our business, which will require substantial third party financing. Failure to increase our manufacturing capacity may impair Hemopure’s market acceptance and prevent us from achieving profitability. If Hemopure is approved by the FDA or the analogous European regulatory authorities, we will need to construct new manufacturing capacity to develop our business. The increase in our manufacturing capacity is dependent upon our obtaining substantial financing from third parties. Third parties can be expected to be unwilling to commit to finance a new manufacturing facility so long as we do not have approval of the FDA or the analogous European regulatory authorities to market Hemopure. We cannot assure you that sufficient financing for new manufacturing capacity will be available or, if available, will be on terms that are acceptable to us. We expect that, 22 Table of Contents once we have the required significant financing in place, it would take 30 to 36 months, or more, to build a large Hemopure manufacturing facility and to qualify and obtain facility approval from the FDA and analogous European regulatory authorities. If Hemopure is approved for marketing in a major market and receives market acceptance, we may experience difficulty manufacturing enough of the product to meet demand. The manufacturing processes we currently employ to produce small quantities of material for research and development activities and clinical trials may not be successfully scaled up for production of commercial quantities at a reasonable cost or at all. If we cannot manufacture sufficient quantities of Hemopure, we may not be able to build our business or operate profitably. In addition, if we cannot fill orders for Hemopure, customers might turn to alternative products and may choose not to use Hemopure even after we have addressed our capacity shortage. If we are not able to finance additional manufacturing capacity, we will incur a substantial write-off of assets. We have made a substantial investment in a planned manufacturing facility. If we cannot finance such a facility, we will be required to write off that investment, and our financial condition will be impaired. Our lack of operating history makes evaluating our business difficult. Proceeds from the sales of equity securities, payments to fund our research and development activities, licensing fees, and interest income have provided almost all of our funding to date. We have no operating history of selling Hemopure upon which to base an evaluation of our business and our prospects. If we are not able to protect our intellectual property, competition could force us to lower our prices, which might reduce profitability. We believe that our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, including our proprietary know-how, will be important to our success. Accordingly, the success of our business will depend, in part, upon our ability to defend our intellectual property against infringement by third parties. We cannot guarantee that our intellectual property rights will protect us adequately from competition from similar products or that additional products or processes we discover or seek to commercialize will receive adequate intellectual property protection. In addition, third parties may successfully challenge our intellectual property. We have not filed patent applications in every country. In certain countries, obtaining patents for our products, processes and uses may be difficult or impossible. Patents issued in regions other than the United States and Europe may be harder to enforce than, and may not provide the same protection as, patents obtained in the United States and Europe. Failure to avoid infringement of others’ intellectual property rights could impair our ability to manufacture and market our products. We cannot guarantee that our products and manufacturing process will be free of claims by third parties alleging that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. Several third parties hold patents with claims to compositions comprising polymerized hemoglobin and their methods of manufacture and use. One or more of these third parties may assert that our activities infringe claims under an existing patent. Such a claim could be asserted while we are still developing or marketing Hemopure. Any such claim could be expensive and time-consuming to defend, and an adverse litigation result or a settlement of litigation could require us to pay damages, obtain a license from the complaining party or a third party, develop non-infringing alternatives or cease using the challenged trademark, product or manufacturing process. Any such result could be expensive or result in a protracted plant shutdown, in turn adversely affecting our ability to operate profitably. There can be no assurance that we would prevail in any intellectual property infringement action, will be able to obtain a license to any third party intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms, successfully develop non-infringing alternatives on a timely basis, or license alternative non-infringing trademarks, products, or manufacturing processes, if any exist, on commercially reasonable terms. Any significant intellectual property 23 Table of Contents impediment to our ability to develop and commercialize Hemopure would seriously harm our business and prospects. Our profitability will be adversely affected if we incur product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage. The testing and marketing of medical products, even after regulatory approval, have an inherent risk of product liability. We maintain limited product liability insurance coverage in the total amount of $20,000,000. However, our profitability will be adversely affected by a successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage. We cannot guarantee that product liability insurance will be available in the future or be available on reasonable terms. Replacing our sole source suppliers for key materials could result in unexpected delays and expenses. We obtain some key materials, including membranes and chemicals, and services from sole source suppliers. All of these materials are commercially available elsewhere. If such materials or services were no longer available at a reasonable cost from our existing suppliers, we would need to purchase substitute materials from new suppliers. If we need to locate a new supplier, the substitute or replacement materials or facilities will need to be tested for equivalency. Such equivalency tests could significantly delay development of a product, delay or limit commercial sales of approved products, if any, and cause us to incur additional expense. We obtain bovine hemoglobin from one abattoir and from herds that are located in one state of the United States. We cannot predict the future effect, if any, on us of the discovery of “mad cow” disease in the United States. Any quarantine affecting herds that supply us or a shutdown of the abattoir we source from could have a material adverse effect on us, as we would have to find, validate and obtain regulatory approval of new sources of supply or new facilities. Changes in the securities laws and regulations are likely to increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which became law in July 2002, has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. In response to the requirements of that Act, the SEC and the Nasdaq have promulgated new rules and listing standards covering a variety of subjects. Compliance with these new rules and listing standards has increased our general and administrative costs, and we expect these increased costs to continue. These developments may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly independent directors, or qualified executive officers. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on a company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, the public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. This requirement applies to this annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending October 31, 2005, for which our independent registered accounting firm has provided an unqualified report. If our independent registered public accounting firm does not provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting for future year-ends, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. Provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws could impair or delay stockholders’ ability to replace or remove our management and could discourage takeover transactions that a stockholder might consider to be in its best interest. Provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as our stockholder rights plan, could impede attempts by stockholders to remove or replace our management or could discourage others from initiating a 24 Table of Contents potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction, including a potential transaction at a premium over market price that a stockholder might consider to be in its best interest. In particular: • Our restated certificate of incorporation does not permit stockholders to take action by written consent and provides for a classified board of directors, and our by-laws provide that stockholders who wish to bring business before an annual meeting of stockholders or to nominate candidates for election of directors at an annual meeting of stockholders must deliver advance notice of their proposals to us before the meeting. These provisions could make it more difficult for a party to replace our board of directors by requiring two annual stockholder meetings to replace a majority of the directors, making it impossible to remove or elect directors by written consent in lieu of a meeting and making it more difficult to introduce business at meetings. • Our stockholder rights plan may have the effect of discouraging any person or group that wishes to acquire more than 20 percent of our Class A common stock from doing so without obtaining our agreement to redeem the rights. If our agreement to redeem the rights is not obtained, the acquiring person or group would suffer substantial dilution. Industry Risks Intense competition could harm our financial performance. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive. There are a number of companies, universities and research organizations actively engaged in research and development of products that may be similar to, or alternatives to, Hemopure for trauma or ischemia indications. We are aware that at least one public company competitor, Northfield Laboratories Inc., is in the advanced stages of developing a hemoglobin-based oxygen carrier produced from human blood that has passed its expiration date for human transfusion. Northfield’s product is in a Phase 3 clinical trial for a trauma indication. We are also aware that other companies are conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials of hemoglobin-based or perfluorocarbon oxygen carriers. The products being developed by these companies are intended for use in humans and as such could compete, if approved by regulatory authorities, with Hemopure. We may also encounter competition in ischemia indications from medical devices and drugs on the market or currently under development. Increased competition could diminish our ability to become profitable or affect our profitability in the future. Our existing and potential competitors: • are conducting clinical trials of their products; • might have or be able to access substantially greater resources than we have and be better equipped to develop, manufacture and market their products; • may have their products approved for marketing prior to Hemopure; and • may develop superior technologies or products rendering our technology and products non-competitive or obsolete. Stringent, ongoing government regulation and inspection of our products could lead to delays in the manufacture, marketing and sale of our products. The FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities continue to regulate products even after they receive marketing authorization. If the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities approve Hemopure, its manufacture and marketing will be subject to ongoing regulation, including compliance with current good manufacturing practices, adverse event reporting requirements and general prohibitions against promoting products for unapproved or “off-label” uses. We are also subject to inspection and market surveillance by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities for compliance with these and other requirements. Any enforcement action resulting from failure, even by inadvertence, to comply with these requirements could affect the manufacture and marketing of Hemopure. In addition, the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities could withdraw a previously approved product from the applicable market(s) upon receipt of newly discovered information. Furthermore, the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities could require us to conduct additional, and 25 Table of Contents potentially expensive, studies in areas outside our approved indications. Also, unanticipated changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations could affect and make more expensive the continued manufacturing and marketing of our products. Health care reform and controls on health care spending may limit the price we can charge for Hemopure and the amount we can sell. The federal government and private insurers have considered ways to change, and have changed, the manner in which health care services are provided in the United States. Potential approaches and changes in recent years include controls on health care spending and the creation of large purchasing groups. In the future, it is possible that the government may institute price controls and limits on Medicare and Medicaid spending. These controls and limits might affect the payments we collect from sales of our products. Assuming we succeed in bringing Hemopure to market, uncertainties regarding future health care reform and private market practices could affect our ability to sell Hemopure in large quantities at profitable pricing in the United States and abroad. Uncertainty of third-party reimbursement could affect our profitability. Sales of medical products largely depend on the reimbursement of patients’ medical expenses by governmental health care programs and private health insurers. Even if Hemopure is approved for marketing, there is no guarantee that governmental health care programs or private health insurers would reimburse for purchases of Hemopure, or reimburse a sufficient amount to permit us to sell Hemopure at high enough prices to generate a profit. Investment Risks We may not continue to qualify for continued listing on the Nasdaq National Market, which may cause the value of your investment in our company to substantially decrease. We may be unable to meet the listing requirements of the Nasdaq National Market. To maintain our listing on the Nasdaq National Market, we are required, among other things, to maintain a daily closing bid price per share of at least $1.00. On December 19, 2005, we received notice from the Nasdaq Stock Market that the closing bid price of our Class A common stock had fallen below and remained below $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days. As a result, we are out of compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for continued inclusion of our Class A common stock in the Nasdaq National Market. Under Nasdaq rules, we have until June 19, 2006 to regain compliance by having the bid price of our Class A common stock close at $1.00 per share or more for at least 10 consecutive business days. If we do not regain compliance by June 19, 2006, our Class A common stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq National Market. Delisting would adversely affect the trading price and limit the liquidity of our Class A common stock and therefore cause the value of an investment in our company to substantially decrease. Alternatively, we may apply to transfer our Class A common stock to the Nasdaq Capital Market, provided we meet all requirements for initial listing on that market except for the bid price requirement. If the application is approved, we would be afforded the remainder of this market’s second 180 calendar day compliance period in order to regain compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement. If we transfer our securities to the Nasdaq Capital Market and do not demonstrate compliance within the second 180 day compliance period, we will be issued a delisting letter. As we sell additional shares, our stock price may decline as a result of the dilution which will occur to existing stockholders. Until we are profitable, we will need significant additional funds to develop our business and sustain our operations. Any additional sales of shares of our common stock are likely to have a dilutive effect on our then existing stockholders. Subsequent sales of these shares in the open market could also have the effect of lowering our stock price, thereby increasing the number of shares we may need to issue in the future to raise the same dollar amount and consequently further diluting our outstanding shares. These future sales could also have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares and could result in additional dilution to the holders of our shares. 26 Table of Contents The perceived risk associated with the possible sale of a large number of shares could cause some of our stockholders to sell their stock, thus causing the price of our stock to decline. In addition, actual or anticipated downward pressure on our stock price due to actual or anticipated sales of stock could cause some institutions or individuals to engage in short sales of our common stock, which may itself cause the price of our stock to decline. If our stock price declines, we may be unable to raise additional capital. A sustained inability to raise capital could force us to go out of business. Significant declines in the price of our common stock could also impair our ability to attract and retain qualified employees, reduce the liquidity of our common stock and result in the delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq National Market. Shares eligible for future sale may cause the market price for our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock or the availability of shares for future sale will have on the market price of our common stock from time to time. Substantially all of our outstanding shares of Class A common stock are freely tradeable in the public market, unless acquired by our affiliates. Other shares of our common stock issued in the future, including shares issued upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants, may become available for resale in the public market from time to time, and the market price of shares of our common stock could drop significantly if the holders of these shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. Our stock price has been and may continue to be highly volatile, which may adversely affect holders of our stock and our ability to raise capital. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be extremely volatile. During the period from November 1, 2002 through December 31, 2005, the trading price of our stock ranged from a low of $0.64 per share (on December 21, 2005) to a high of $54.179 per share (on August 1, 2003). Our stock price and trading volume could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • failure to identify and hire key personnel or the loss of key personnel; • an inability to obtain or the perception that we will be unable to obtain adequate financing to fund our operations; • FDA action or delays in FDA action on Hemopure or competitors’ products; • the outcome of litigation; • publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating to products under development by us or our competitors; • actual or potential preclinical or clinical trial results relating to products under development by us or our competitors; • delays in our testing and development schedules; • events or announcements relating to our relationships with others, including the status of potential transactions with investors, licensees and other parties; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors; • developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • economic and other factors, as well as period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; • market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks; and • additional, future communications from the Nasdaq Stock Market concerning delisting or potential delisting. 27 Table of Contents External factors may also adversely affect the market price for our common stock. The price and liquidity of our common stock may be significantly affected by the overall trading activity and market factors impacting small capitalization biotechnology stocks generally. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have received no written comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our periodic or current reports that (1) we believe are material, (2) were issued not less than 180 days before the end of our 2005 fiscal year, and (3) remain unresolved. 