Item 1A. Risk Factors Company Risks We have a history of losses and expect future losses. We have had annual losses from operations since our inception. In the fiscal years ended October 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, we had losses from operations of $29.1 million, $26.9 million and $36.8 million, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit of $562.0 million as of October 2007. We anticipate that we will continue to generate 18 Table of Contents losses for the next several years. Even if Hemopure were to be approved by the FDA or we obtain marketing authorization in another major market, we might not be able to achieve profitable operations. We could fail to remain a going concern. We expect that our cash on hand and forecasted sales will fund operations into July 2008. Additional funds may not be available to us thereafter or on terms that we deem acceptable, if they are available at all. Our independent registered public accounting firm has modified their report for our fiscal year ended October 31, 2007 with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. This type of modification typically would indicate that our recurring losses from operations and current lack of sufficient funds to sustain operations through the end of the following fiscal year raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. If we became unable to continue as a going concern, we would have to liquidate our assets and we might receive significantly less than the values at which they are carried on our consolidated financial statements. Any shortfall in the proceeds from the liquidation of our assets would directly reduce the amounts, if any, that holders of our common stock could receive in liquidation. To remain a going concern, we require significant funding. The inclusion of a going concern modification in Ernst & Young LLP’s audit opinion for fiscal 2007 may materially and adversely affect our stock price and our ability to raise new capital. We could fail in financing efforts if we fail to receive stockholder approval when needed. We are required under the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules to obtain stockholder approval for any issuance of additional equity securities that would comprise more than 20% of our total shares of common stock outstanding before the issuance of the securities at a discount to the greater of book or market value in an offering that is not deemed to be a “public offering” by Nasdaq. If we remain listed on Nasdaq, funding of our operations in the future may require stockholder approval for purposes of complying with the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules. We could require such approval to raise additional funds, but might not be successful in obtaining any such required stockholder approval. If we remain listed on Nasdaq and we fail to obtain approval prior to a financing for which the Nasdaq believes we need stockholder approval, we may be delisted. Failure to raise sufficient additional funds will significantly impair or possibly cause us to cease the development, manufacture and sale of our products and our ability to operate. The development and regulatory processes for seeking and obtaining regulatory approval to market Hemopure has been and will continue to be costly. We will require substantial working capital to develop, manufacture and sell Hemopure and to finance our operations until such time, if ever, as we can generate positive cash flow. If Hemopure is approved for sale in the U.S. or the European Union, we expect that we will need to increase our manufacturing capacity, for which we will require significant additional funding. If additional financing is not available when needed or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize Hemopure or to continue to operate. A sustained period in which financing is not available could force us to go out of business. If the U.S. Navy does not continue its development of Hemopure for a trauma indication, we will likely cease development of Hemopure for that indication because of limited resources. If we fail to obtain FDA approval to market Hemopure, we will be highly adversely affected. We will not be able to market Hemopure in the U.S. unless and until we receive FDA approval. In pursuing both the ischemia and anemia indications for Hemopure, as a prerequisite to further clinical trials for Hemopure in the U.S., we must address ongoing FDA questions. We have been delayed, and could be further delayed, in responding, either by outside contractors’ failure or inability to complete their tasks in a timely manner, our own staff limitations or by other unanticipated delays or difficulties and lack of resources. The FDA to date has found inadequate the responses of the U.S. Naval Medical Research Center (NMRC) to questions raised in connection with its proposal to conduct a trial of Hemopure in trauma patients in the out-of-hospital setting. If the FDA finds future responses made 19 Table of Contents by us or the NMRC to be inadequate, we would be unable to pursue indefinitely development of Hemopure in the U.S., a very large, key market. Moreover, even if we adequately address the FDA’s questions, we will need to obtain FDA acceptance of the protocols for, and to complete, human clinical trials before applying for FDA approval to market Hemopure for an ischemia indication. We cannot predict whether or when we will submit an Investigational New Drug application (IND) for an ischemia indication. Consequently, we do not know whether or when we will be able to commence a U.S. clinical trial of Hemopure for an ischemia indication or that we will be able to conduct or satisfactorily conclude additional clinical trials required to obtain FDA marketing approval for this indication. In the case of the trauma indication, the NMRC has primary responsibility for designing, seeking FDA acceptance of and conducting a clinical trial of Hemopure for out-of-hospital treatment of trauma patients in hemorrhagic shock. In 2005, it proposed a two-stage Phase 2b/3 clinical trial, which was placed on an FDA clinical hold. The FDA’s Blood Products Advisory Committee in December 2006 recommended that the trial be redesigned as a Phase 2 trial. The NMRC submitted a Phase 2 protocol, which continues to be on clinical hold. The FDA may not approve the redesigned Phase 2 trial. If the FDA ultimately lifts the clinical hold and the RESUS trial, as it may be redesigned, is commenced and concluded, the trial results may not lead to FDA marketing approval for the proposed trauma indication because of poor outcome or need for additional trials. Usually a Phase 2 trial is not adequate for market approval. In addition, future or existing governmental action or changes in FDA policies or precedents may result in delays or rejection of an application for marketing approval. The FDA has considerable discretion in determining whether to grant marketing approval for a drug and may delay or deny approval even in circumstances where the applicant’s clinical trials have proceeded in compliance with FDA procedures and regulations and have met the established end points of the trials. Despite all of our efforts, the FDA could refuse to grant marketing approval for Hemopure for any indication. Challenges to FDA determinations are generally time consuming and costly, and rarely succeed. We can give no assurance that we will obtain FDA marketing approval for Hemopure for any indication. The failure to obtain any approval would have severe adverse consequences. If we fail to obtain regulatory approvals in foreign jurisdictions, we will not be able to market Hemopure abroad. We are seeking marketing approval in the U.K. and we intend to seek to market Hemopure in other international markets, including other European Union countries. Whether or not FDA marketing approval has been obtained, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals in order to market our products in the European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions. The regulatory approval processes differ among these jurisdictions, and the time needed to secure marketing approvals may be even longer than that required for FDA approval. Marketing approval in any one jurisdiction does not ensure approval in a different jurisdiction. As a result, obtaining foreign approvals will require additional expenditures and significant amounts of time. We can give no assurance that we will obtain marketing approval for Hemopure in any foreign jurisdiction other than that already obtained in South Africa. Clinical trials are extremely costly and subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. To gain regulatory approval from the FDA and European regulatory authorities for the commercial sale of any product, including Hemopure, we must demonstrate in clinical trials, and satisfy the regulatory authorities as to, the safety and efficacy of the product. Like the regulatory review process, clinical trials are expensive and time-consuming. Clinical trials are also subject to numerous risks and uncertainties not within our control. For example, data we obtain from preclinical and clinical studies are susceptible to varying interpretations that could impede regulatory approval. In addition, many factors could delay or result in termination of ongoing or future clinical trials. Results from ongoing or completed preclinical or clinical studies or analyses could raise concerns, real or perceived, over the safety or efficacy of a product candidate. We cannot assure investors that the FDA will not delay the development of 20 Table of Contents Hemopure by further continuing its current hold or placing other clinical trials we sponsor or others may sponsor on hold in the future. A clinical trial may be delayed by slow patient enrollment. There may be limited availability of patients who meet the criteria for certain clinical trials. Delays in planned patient enrollment can result in increased development costs and delays in regulatory approvals. Further, we rely on investigating physicians and the hospital trial sites to enroll patients. In addition, patients may experience adverse medical events or side effects resulting in delays, whether or not the events or the side effects relate to our product. If we do not have the financial resources to fund trials required to develop Hemopure for multiple potential indications, our success will be adversely affected. In general, we cannot sell Hemopure for any indication unless we receive regulatory approval for that indication. Regulatory authorities generally require a separate marketing approval for each proposed indication for the use of a drug. In order to market Hemopure for more than one indication, we will have to design additional clinical trials, submit the trial designs to applicable regulatory authorities for review and complete those trials successfully. If any applicable regulatory authority approves Hemopure for an indication, it may require a label cautioning against the product’s use for indications or classes of patients for which it has not been approved. We may not have funds available to try to exploit Hemopure for all of its potential indications. Our potential revenues will be impaired by limitations on the use of Hemopure. If the Navy were to abandon its attempt to develop Hemopure for a trauma indication, it would have a serious adverse effect on our prospects. Our current clinical development activities involve the pursuit of two indications: ischemia and trauma. We are pursuing the latter in the U.S. because the NMRC has agreed to be responsible for virtually all aspects of an advanced trauma trial. The FDA has prevented the start of the proposed NMRC trial since June 2005. If the Navy were to decide not to continue to pursue this project, we would not have the benefit of this alliance and would be required to delay indefinitely work on this indication. If we cannot retain the personnel we need or if we cannot hire or retain highly qualified people, our operations will suffer. We may experience the loss of personnel, including executives and other employees, as a result of attrition, which we have previously experienced. We expect that in the future we will need to recruit and retain personnel for important positions. We may be unable to do so, in particular if we are unable to improve our financial position. If we cannot generate adequate, profitable sales of Hemopure, we will not be successful. To succeed, we must develop Hemopure commercially and sell adequate quantities of Hemopure at a profit. We may not accomplish either of these objectives. To date, we have focused our efforts on developing Hemopure, establishing its safety and efficacy. Uncertainty exists regarding the potential size of any geographic market for Hemopure and the price that we can charge for it. Additionally, the size of the market will be affected by the indication(s) for which Hemopure is approved and will be greatly reduced if reimbursement for the cost of Hemopure is not available from health insurance companies or government programs. If we cannot find appropriate marketing partners, we may not be able to market and distribute Hemopure effectively. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to market and distribute Hemopure effectively in major markets. We have no experience in the sale or marketing of medical products for humans in a major market. In the event that we obtain FDA approval of Hemopure, we may choose initially to market Hemopure using an independent distributor. Any such distributor: • might not be successful in marketing Hemopure; • might, at its discretion, limit the amount and timing of resources it devotes to marketing Hemopure; and/or 21 Table of Contents • might terminate its agreement with us and abandon our products at any time whether or not permitted by the applicable agreement. We may instead seek an alternative arrangement, such as an alliance with a pharmaceutical company, or may be required to recruit, train and retain a marketing staff and sales force of our own. We may not be successful in obtaining satisfactory distributorship agreements or entering into alternative arrangements. If we cannot obtain market acceptance of Hemopure, we will not be able to generate adequate, profitable sales. Even if we succeed in obtaining marketing approval for Hemopure, a number of factors may affect future sales of our product. These factors include: • whether and how quickly physicians and third party payers accept Hemopure as a cost-effective therapeutic; • whether medical care providers or the public accept the use of a bovine-derived protein as a therapeutic in ischemia or any other indication, particularly in light of public perceptions in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere about the risk of “mad cow disease”; and • product price, which we believe has been an important factor in South Africa and may be elsewhere. If we fail to comply with good manufacturing practices, we may not be able to sell our products. To obtain the approval of the FDA and European regulatory authorities to sell Hemopure, we must demonstrate to them that we can manufacture Hemopure in compliance with applicable good manufacturing practices, commonly known as GMPs. GMPs are stringent requirements that apply to all aspects of the manufacturing process. We are subject to inspections by the FDA and European regulatory authorities at any time to determine whether we are in compliance with GMP requirements. If we fail to manufacture in compliance with GMPs, these regulatory authorities may refuse to approve Hemopure or revoke approval of Oxyglobin or may take other enforcement actions with respect to Hemopure or Oxyglobin. The manufacturing process for Hemopure is complicated and time-consuming, and we may experience problems that would limit our ability to manufacture and sell Hemopure. Our products are biologic drugs and require product manufacturing steps that are more complicated, time consuming and costly than those required for most chemical drugs. Minor deviations in our manufacturing processes or other problems could result in unacceptable changes in the products that result in lot failures, increased production scrap, shipment delays, regulatory problems, product recalls or product liability, all of which could negatively affect our results of operations. If we were unable to use our manufacturing facilities in Massachusetts or Pennsylvania, we would not be able to manufacture for an extended period of time. We manufacture at a single location in Massachusetts with raw material sourcing and initial processing in Pennsylvania. Damage to either of these manufacturing facilities due to fire, contamination, natural disaster, power loss or other events could cause us to cease manufacturing. For example, if our Massachusetts manufacturing facility were destroyed, it would take approximately two years or more to rebuild and qualify it. In the reconstruction period, we would not be able to manufacture product and thus would have no supply of Hemopure for research and development, clinical trials or sales after we used up all finished goods in our inventory. A new manufacturing facility would take longer to construct. 22 Table of Contents If Hemopure receives regulatory approval in a major market, we will be required to expand our manufacturing capacity to develop our business, which will require substantial third-party financing. Failure to increase our manufacturing capacity and to lower our manufacturing cost per unit may impair market acceptance of Hemopure and prevent us from achieving profitability. If Hemopure is approved for indications with high demand in one or more markets, we will need to construct new manufacturing capacity to develop our business. The increase in our manufacturing capacity is dependent upon our obtaining substantial financing from third parties. Third parties can be expected to be unwilling to commit to finance a new manufacturing facility so long as we do not have regulatory approval to market Hemopure in a major market. We cannot assure that sufficient financing for new manufacturing capacity will be available or, if available, will be on terms that are acceptable to us. After the required significant financing was in place, it would take at least 30 to 36 months from groundbreaking to build a large Hemopure manufacturing facility and to qualify and obtain facility approval from the FDA or European regulatory authorities. If Hemopure is approved for marketing in a major market and receives market acceptance, we may experience difficulty manufacturing enough of the product to meet demand. The manufacturing processes we currently employ to produce small quantities of material for research and development activities and clinical trials may not be successfully scaled up for production of commercial quantities at a reasonable cost or at all. We will face risks in the scale-up of our processes in the construction of any new manufacturing facility, and in turn could encounter delays, higher than usual rejects, additional reviews and tests of units produced and other costs attendant to an inability to manufacture saleable product. Furthermore, scale-up might not succeed in lowering our product cost, which also could negatively affect our results of operations. If we cannot manufacture sufficient quantities of Hemopure, we may not be able to build our business or operate profitably. In addition, if we cannot fill orders for Hemopure, customers might turn to alternative products and may choose not to use Hemopure even after we have addressed any capacity shortage. Our lack of operating history makes evaluating our business difficult. Proceeds from the sales of equity securities, payments to fund our research and development activities, licensing fees, and interest income have provided almost all of our funding to date. We have no operating history of selling Hemopure upon which to base an evaluation of our business and prospects. If we are not able to protect our intellectual property, competition could force us to lower our prices, which might reduce profitability. We believe that our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, including our proprietary knowledge, are important to our success. Accordingly, the success of our business will depend, in part, upon our ability to defend our intellectual property against infringement by third parties. We cannot guarantee that our intellectual property rights will protect us adequately from competition from similar products. Some of our important patents have relatively short remaining terms. Nor can we guarantee that additional products or processes we discover or seek to commercialize will receive adequate intellectual property protection. In addition, third parties may successfully challenge our intellectual property. We have not filed patent applications in every country. In certain countries, obtaining patents for our products, processes and uses may be difficult or impossible. Patents issued in regions other than the U.S. and Europe may be harder to enforce than, and may not provide the same protection as, patents obtained in the U.S. and Europe. Failure to avoid infringement of others’ intellectual property rights could impair our ability to manufacture and market our products. We cannot guarantee that our products and manufacturing process will be free of claims by third parties alleging that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. Several third parties hold patents with claims to compositions comprising polymerized hemoglobin and their methods of manufacture and use. One or more of these third parties may assert that our activities infringe claims under an existing patent. Any such claim could be expensive and time-consuming to defend, and an adverse litigation result or a settlement of litigation could require us to pay damages, obtain a license from the complaining party or a third party, develop non-infringing alternatives 23 Table of Contents or cease using the challenged intellectual property. Any such result could be expensive or result in a protracted plant shutdown, in turn adversely affecting our ability to operate profitably. There can be no assurance that we would prevail in any intellectual property infringement action, or be able to obtain a license to any third-party intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms, to successfully develop non-infringing alternatives on a timely basis, or to license alternative non-infringing intellectual property, if any exists, on commercially reasonable terms. Any significant intellectual property impediment to our ability to develop and commercialize Hemopure would seriously harm our business and prospects. Our operating results will be adversely affected if we incur product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage. The testing and marketing of medical products, even after regulatory approval, have an inherent risk of product liability. We maintain limited product liability insurance coverage. Our profitability would be adversely affected by a successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage. We cannot guarantee that product liability insurance in adequate coverage amounts will be available in the future or be available on terms we could afford to pay. Replacing our sole- source suppliers for key materials could result in unexpected delays and expenses. We obtain some key materials, including membranes and chemicals, and services from sole-source suppliers. All of these materials are commercially available elsewhere. If such materials were no longer available at a reasonable cost from our existing suppliers, we would need to purchase substitute materials from new suppliers. If we needed to locate a new supplier, the substitute or replacement materials or facilities would need to be tested for equivalency. Such equivalency tests could significantly delay product development, or delay or limit commercial sales of approved products and cause us to incur additional expense. We obtain bovine hemoglobin from one abattoir, from animals raised in several states of the U.S. We cannot predict the future effect, if any, on us of the spread of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (“mad cow” disease) in the U.S. Any quarantine affecting herds that supply us or a shutdown of the abattoir that we use could have a material adverse effect on us, as we would have to find, validate and obtain regulatory approval of new sources of supply or new facilities. Changes in the securities laws and regulations are likely to increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which became law in July 2002, has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. In response to the requirements of that Act, the SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market promulgated new rules and listing standards covering a variety of subjects. Compliance with these new rules and listing standards has increased our general and administrative costs, and we expect to continue to experience increased costs. These developments also could make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly independent directors, or qualified executive officers. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on a company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. We have determined that we are not an “accelerated filer” and consequently Section 404 requirements did not apply to us for our 2007 annual report on Form 10-K. Nevertheless, if our independent registered public accounting firm does not provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting for one or more future year-ends, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. 24 Table of Contents Provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws could impair or delay stockholders’ ability to replace or remove our management and could discourage takeover transactions that a stockholder might consider to be in its best interest. Provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as our stockholder rights plan, could impede attempts by stockholders to remove or replace our management or could discourage others from initiating a potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction, including a potential transaction at a premium over market price that a stockholder might consider to be in its best interest. In particular: • Our restated certificate of incorporation does not permit stockholders to take action by written consent and provides for a classified board of directors, and our by-laws provide that stockholders who wish to bring business before an annual meeting of stockholders or to nominate candidates for election of directors at an annual meeting of stockholders must deliver advance notice of their proposals to us before the meeting. These provisions could make it more difficult for a party to replace our board of directors by requiring two annual stockholder meetings to replace a majority of the directors, making it impossible to remove or elect directors by written consent in lieu of a meeting and making it more difficult to introduce business at meetings. • Our stockholder rights plan may have the effect of discouraging any person or group that wishes to acquire more than 20% of our Class A common stock from doing so without obtaining our agreement to redeem the rights. If our agreement to redeem the rights is not obtained, the acquiring person or group would suffer substantial dilution. Consequently, the possible acquirer would likely not complete a transaction that stockholders might consider to be in their best interest. Industry Risks Intense competition could harm our financial performance. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive. There are a number of companies, universities and research organizations actively engaged in research and development of products that may be similar to, or alternatives to, Hemopure for trauma or ischemia indications. We are aware that one public company competitor, Northfield Laboratories Inc., has completed a pivotal trial of a hemoglobin-based oxygen carrier produced from human blood that has passed its expiration date for human transfusion, and has stated its intention to file a BLA in 2008. We are also aware that other companies are conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials of hemoglobin-based or perfluorocarbon oxygen carriers. The products being developed by these companies are intended for use in humans and as such could compete, if approved by regulatory authorities, with Hemopure. We may also encounter competition in ischemia indications from medical devices and drugs on the market or currently under development. Competition could diminish our ability to become profitable or affect our profitability in the future. Our existing and potential competitors: • are conducting clinical trials of their products; • have or may be able to access substantially greater resources than we have and be better equipped to develop, manufacture and market their products; • may have their products approved for marketing prior to Hemopure; and • may develop superior technologies or products rendering our technology and products non-competitive or obsolete. Stringent, ongoing government regulation and inspection of our facilities could lead to delays in the manufacture, marketing and sale of our products. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities continue to regulate products even after they receive marketing authorization. If the FDA or a foreign regulatory agency approves Hemopure, the manufacture and marketing of Hemopure will be subject to ongoing regulation, including compliance with current good manufacturing practices, 25 Table of Contents adverse event reporting requirements and general prohibitions against promoting products for unapproved or “off-label” uses. We would also be subject to inspection and market surveillance by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities for compliance with these and other requirements. We are subject to such regulation, inspection and surveillance in South Africa. Any enforcement action resulting from failure, even by inadvertence, to comply with these requirements could affect the manufacture and marketing of Hemopure. In addition, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities could withdraw a previously approved product from the applicable market(s) upon receipt of newly discovered information. Furthermore, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities could require us to conduct additional, and potentially expensive, studies in areas outside our approved indications. Also, unanticipated changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations could affect and make more expensive the continued manufacturing and marketing of our products. Health care reform and controls on health care spending may limit the price we can charge for Hemopure and the amount we can sell. The federal government and private insurers have considered ways to change, and have changed, the manner in which health care services are provided in the U.S. Potential approaches and changes in recent years include controls on health care spending and the creation of large purchasing groups. In the future, it is possible that the government may institute price controls and limits on Medicare and Medicaid spending. These controls and limits might affect the payments we collect from sales of our products. European governments generally control expenditures on medicines through price control and other restrictive practices. Assuming we succeed in bringing Hemopure to market, uncertainties regarding future health care reform and private market practices would affect our ability to sell Hemopure in large quantities at profitable pricing in the U.S. and abroad. Uncertainty of third-party reimbursement could affect our profitability. Sales of medical products largely depend on the reimbursement of patients’ medical expenses by governmental health care programs and private health insurers. Even if Hemopure is approved for marketing, there is no guarantee that governmental health care programs or private health insurers would reimburse for purchases of Hemopure, or reimburse a sufficient amount to permit us to sell Hemopure at high enough prices to generate a profit. Hemopure sales in South Africa have been adversely affected by a lack of third-party reimbursement. Investment Risks The Nasdaq Capital Market may cease to list our Class A common stock which may cause the value of an investment in our Company to substantially decrease. We may be unable to meet the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market in the future. To maintain our listing, we are required, among other things, to maintain a daily closing bid price per share of $1.00. On December 14, 2007, we received notice from the Nasdaq Stock Market that the closing bid price of our Class A common stock had fallen below and remained below $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days. As a result, we are out of compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for continued inclusion of our Class A common stock in the Nasdaq Capital Market. Under Nasdaq rules, we have two periods of 180 days each to regain compliance by having the bid price of our Class A common stock close at $1.00 per share or more for at least 10 consecutive business days. If we do not regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule by December 2008, Nasdaq will provide written notification that our Class A common stock will be delisted. Delisting would adversely affect the trading price and limit the liquidity of our common stock and therefore could cause the value of an investment in our Company to decrease. As we sell additional shares, our stock price may decline as a result of the dilution which will occur to existing stockholders. Until we are profitable, we will need significant additional funds to develop our business and sustain our operations. Any additional sales of shares of our common stock are likely to have a dilutive effect on some or all of our then existing stockholders. Resales of newly issued shares in the open market could also have the effect of 26 Table of Contents lowering our stock price, thereby increasing the number of shares we may need to issue in the future to raise the same dollar amount and consequently further diluting our outstanding shares. The perceived risk associated with the possible sale of a large number of shares could cause some of our stockholders to sell their stock, thus causing the price of our stock to decline. In addition, actual or anticipated downward pressure on our stock price due to actual or anticipated sales of stock could cause some institutions or individuals to engage in short sales of our common stock, which may itself cause the price of our stock to decline. If our stock price declines, we may be unable to raise additional capital. A sustained inability to raise capital could force us to go out of business. Significant declines in the price of our common stock could also impair our ability to attract and retain qualified employees, reduce the liquidity of our common stock and result in the delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Stock Market. Shares eligible for future sale may cause the market price for our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of our common stock or the availability of shares for future sale will have on the market price of our common stock from time to time. Shares of our common stock issued in the future, including shares issued upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants may become available for resale in the public market from time to time, and the market price of shares of our common stock could drop significantly if the holders of these shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. Our stock price has been and may continue to be highly volatile, which may adversely affect holders of our stock and our ability to raise capital. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be extremely volatile. During the period from November 1, 2004 to October 31, 2007, the trading price of our stock ranged from a low of $1.01 per share (on October 31, 2007) to a high of $23.10 per share (on January 4, 2005). Our stock price and trading volume could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the following: • failure to identify and hire key personnel or the loss of key personnel; • an inability to obtain or the perception that we will be unable to obtain adequate financing to fund our operations; • FDA action or delays in FDA action on Hemopure or competitors’ products; • publicity regarding actual, perceived or potential medical issues relating to products under development by us or our competitors; • actual or potential preclinical or clinical trial results relating to products under development by us or our competitors; • delays in our testing and development schedules; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors; • developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights; • regulatory developments in the U.S. and foreign countries; • economic and other factors, as well as period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; • market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks; and • additional, future communications from the Nasdaq Stock Market concerning delisting or potential delisting. External factors may also adversely affect the market price for our common stock. The price and liquidity of our common stock may be significantly affected by the overall trading activity and market factors affecting small capitalization biotechnology stocks generally. 27 Table of Contents 