Item 1A. Risk Factors Company Risks Failure to raise sufficient additional funds will cause the Company to cease the development of its products and its ability to operate. The Company’s cash on hand and anticipated revenue are only sufficient to last into April 2009. Unless the Company obtains financing imminently, it will be forced to cease operations, liquidate its assets, and possibly seek bankruptcy protection. Given this need for capital, the Company is seeking new funding and minimizing cash outflow. It has taken steps to reduce administrative, sales, marketing and clinical spending, including reducing headcount. Additionally, it is exploring strategic alternatives, including monetizing selected assets and a sale of all assets to protect the interests of its stockholders, creditors and other stakeholders. The development and regulatory processes for seeking and obtaining regulatory approval to market Hemopure has been and will continue to be costly. Substantial working capital will be needed to develop, manufacture and sell Hemopure and to finance operations until such time, if ever, as it can generate positive cash flow. If additional financing is not available when needed or if financing is not available on satisfactory terms, the Company will be unable to successfully develop or commercialize Hemopure or to continue to operate. A sustained period in which financing is not available could force the Company to go out of business and liquidate its assets. If the U.S. Navy does not continue its development of Hemopure for a trauma indication, the Company will likely cease development of Hemopure for that indication because of limited resources. The Company has a history of losses and expects future losses. Annual losses have existed from operations since inception. In the fiscal years ended October 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company had losses from operations of $20.8 million and $36.9 million, respectively. It had an accumulated deficit of $582 million as of October 31, 2008. It anticipates that it will continue to generate losses for the next several years. Even if Hemopure were to be approved by the FDA or the Company obtains marketing authorization in another major market, it might not be able to achieve profitable operations. Cash on hand and expected cash inflows are expected to only last until April 2009. Without sufficient additional cash, the Company will be forced to cease operations and liquidate its assets. The Company could fail to remain a going concern. The Company has not had adequate cash to fund operations since late in fiscal 2008. Sufficient funds may not be available to it hereafter. Its independent registered public accounting firm has modified their report for fiscal year ended October 31, 2008 with respect to the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. This type of modification typically would indicate that the Company’s recurring losses from operations and current lack of sufficient funds to sustain operations through the end of the following fiscal year raise substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. Its consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. If the Company became unable to continue as a going concern, it would have to liquidate its assets and might receive significantly less than the values at which they are carried on its 19 Table of Contents consolidated financial statements. Any shortfall in the proceeds from the liquidation of its assets would directly reduce the amounts, if any, that holders of our common stock could receive in liquidation. To remain a going concern, significant funding would be required. The inclusion of a going concern modification in the audit report of the Company’s registered public accounting firm for fiscal 2008 may materially and adversely affect the Company’s ability to raise new capital. The Company could fail in financing efforts if it fails to receive stockholder approval when needed. The Company is required under the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules to obtain stockholder approval for any issuance of additional equity securities that would comprise more than 20% of our total shares of common stock outstanding before the issuance of the securities at a discount to the greater of book or market value in an offering that is not deemed to be a “public offering” by Nasdaq. The Company is also required to obtain stockholder approval for the issuance of shares that would cause a change in control of Biopure. If it remains listed on Nasdaq, funding of its operations in the future may require stockholder approval for purposes of complying with the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules. The Company could require such approval to raise additional funds, but might not be successful in obtaining any such required stockholder approval. If the Company remains listed on Nasdaq and fails to obtain approval prior to a financing for which the Nasdaq believes it needs stockholder approval, it may be delisted. The Company could fail to maintain adequate controls to ensure accurate financial reporting. In the fourth quarter of 2008 and 2007, material weaknesses in financial reporting were identified. If the Company continues to operate with minimal staff, there could be inadequacies in financial statements for future periods. If the Company fails to obtain FDA approval to market Hemopure, the Company will be highly adversely affected. The Company will not be able to market Hemopure in the U.S. unless and until it receives FDA approval. The FDA to date has found inadequate the Company’s responses and the responses of the U.S. Naval Medical Research Center (NMRC) to questions it has raised. Given the persistence of clinical holds on all proposals submitted by the U.S. Navy and the Company, it appears that the Company will be unable to pursue development of Hemopure in the United States, a very large, key market, in the near term. If the Company fails to obtain regulatory approvals in foreign jurisdictions, it will not be able to market Hemopure abroad. The Company intends to seek to market Hemopure in international markets. Separate regulatory approvals must be obtained in order to market products in foreign jurisdictions. The regulatory approval processes differ from one jurisdiction to another, and the time needed to secure marketing approvals may be very long. Marketing approval in any one jurisdiction does not ensure approval in a different jurisdiction. As a result, obtaining foreign approvals will require additional expenditures and significant amounts of time. The Company can give no assurance that it will obtain marketing approval for Hemopure in any foreign jurisdiction other than that already obtained in South Africa. The Company is not currently pursuing any such approvals. Clinical trials are extremely costly and subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. To gain regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any product, including Hemopure, the safety and efficacy of the product must be demonstrated in clinical trials. Clinical trials are expensive and time-consuming. Clinical trials are also subject to numerous risks and uncertainties not within our control. For example, data obtained from preclinical and clinical studies are susceptible to varying interpretations that could impede regulatory approval. 20 Table of Contents In addition, many factors can delay or result in termination of ongoing or future clinical trials. Results from ongoing or completed preclinical or clinical studies or analyses could raise concerns, real or perceived, over the safety or efficacy of a product candidate. The Company cannot assure investors that the FDA will not delay the development of Hemopure by further continuing its current holds or placing other clinical trials on hold in the future. A clinical trial may be delayed by slow patient enrollment. There may be limited availability of patients who meet the criteria for certain clinical trials. Delays in planned patient enrollment can result in increased development costs and delays in regulatory approvals. Further, we rely on investigating physicians and the hospital trial sites to enroll patients. In addition, patients may experience adverse medical events or side effects resulting in delays, whether or not the events or the side effects relate to the Company’s product. If the Company does not have the financial resources to fund trials required to develop Hemopure for multiple potential indications, its success will be adversely affected. In general, the Company cannot sell Hemopure for any indication unless it receives regulatory approval for that indication. Regulatory authorities generally require a separate marketing approval for each proposed indication for the use of Hemopure. In order to market Hemopure for more than one indication, the Company will have to design additional clinical trials, submit the trial designs to applicable regulatory authorities for review and complete those trials successfully. If any applicable regulatory authority approves Hemopure for an indication, it may require a label cautioning against the product’s use for indications or classes of patients for which it has not been approved. The Company may not have funds available to try to exploit Hemopure for all of its potential indications. Potential revenues will be impaired by limitations on the use of Hemopure. If the Navy were to abandon its attempt to develop Hemopure for a trauma indication, it would have a serious adverse effect on the Company’s prospects. The Company’s current clinical development activity is supporting the pursuit by the Navy of a trauma indication. The NMRC has agreed to be responsible for virtually all aspects of an advanced trauma trial. The FDA has prevented the start of the proposed NMRC trials. If the Navy were to decide not to continue to pursue this project, the Company would not have the benefit of this alliance and would be required to delay indefinitely work on this indication. If the Company cannot hire or retain highly qualified people, its operations will suffer. The Company has experienced the loss of personnel through cost containment. It expects that in the future it will need to recruit and retain personnel for important positions. The Company may be unable to do so, in particular if it is unable to improve its financial ability to offer secure employment. If the Company cannot generate adequate, profitable sales of Hemopure, it will not be successful. To succeed, Hemopure must be developed commercially and adequate quantities of Hemopure sold at a profit. The Company may not accomplish either of these objectives. To date, efforts have been focused on developing Hemopure, establishing its safety and efficacy. Uncertainty exists regarding the potential size of any geographic market for Hemopure and the price that can be charged for it. Additionally, the size of the market will be affected by the indication(s) for which Hemopure is approved and will be greatly reduced if reimbursement for the cost of Hemopure is not available from health insurance companies or government programs. If the Company cannot obtain market acceptance of Hemopure, it will not be able to generate adequate, profitable sales. Even if marketing approval for Hemopure is obtained, a number of factors may affect future sales of the product. These factors include: • whether and how quickly physicians and third-party payors accept Hemopure as a cost-effective therapeutic; • whether medical care providers or the public accept the use of a bovine-derived protein as a therapeutic in ischemia or any other indication, particularly in light of public perceptions in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere about the risk of “mad cow disease”; and 21 Table of Contents • product price, which the company believes has been an important factor in South Africa and may be elsewhere. If the Company fails to comply with good manufacturing practices, it may not be able to sell its products. The Company must demonstrate to regulatory authorities that it can manufacture Hemopure in compliance with applicable good manufacturing practices, commonly known as GMPs. GMPs are stringent requirements that apply to all aspects of the manufacturing process. The Company is subject to inspections by the FDA and European regulatory authorities at any time to determine whether it is in compliance with GMP requirements. If the Company fails to manufacture in compliance with GMPs, these regulatory authorities could revoke approval of Oxyglobin or take other enforcement actions. The manufacturing process for Hemopure is complicated and time-consuming, and may experience problems that would limit the Company’s ability to manufacture and sell Hemopure. The Company’s products are biologic drugs and require product manufacturing steps that are more complicated, time consuming and costly than those required for most chemical drugs. Minor deviations in the manufacturing processes or other problems could result in unacceptable changes in the products that result in lot failures, increased production scrap, shipment delays, regulatory problems, product recalls or product liability, all of which could negatively affect the results of the Company’s operations. If the Company were unable to restart its manufacturing facilities without undue delay or expense, it would not be able to manufacture for an extended period of time. Manufacturing has been suspended as part of cost containment measures described elsewhere in this report and manufacturing personnel have been laid-off. The Company may not be able to rehire the personnel who have expertise in the Company’s complex manufacturing processes. Consequently, the Company may experience extended and costly delays if it attempts to resume manufacturing. If the Company were unable to use its manufacturing facilities in Massachusetts or Pennsylvania, it would not be able to manufacture for an extended period of time. The Company has a single manufacturing location in Massachusetts with raw material sourcing and initial processing in Pennsylvania. Damage to either of these manufacturing facilities due to fire, contamination, natural disaster, power loss or other events could cause the Company to cease manufacturing. For example, if the Massachusetts manufacturing facility were destroyed, it would take approximately two years or more to rebuild and qualify it. In the reconstruction period, the Company would not be able to manufacture product and thus would have no supply of Hemopure for research and development, clinical trials or sales after all finished goods in our inventory were used up. A new manufacturing facility would take longer to construct. The Company’s lack of operating history makes evaluating its business difficult. Proceeds from the sales of equity securities, payments to fund the Company’s research and development activities, licensing fees, and interest income have provided almost all of our funding to date. The Company has no operating history of selling Hemopure upon which to base an evaluation of its business and prospects. If the Company is not able to protect its intellectual property, it will suffer economic loss. The Company believes that its patents and other intellectual property rights, including its proprietary knowledge, are important to its success. Accordingly, the success of its business will depend, in part, upon its ability to defend its intellectual property against infringement by third parties. The Company cannot guarantee that its intellectual property rights will protect it adequately from competition from similar products. Some of its 22 Table of Contents important patents have relatively short remaining terms. Nor can it guarantee that additional products or processes it discovers or seeks to commercialize will receive adequate intellectual property protection. In addition, third parties may successfully challenge the Company’s intellectual property. It has not filed patent applications in every country. In certain countries, obtaining patents for the Company’s products, processes and uses may be difficult or impossible. Patents issued in regions other than the United States and Europe may be harder to enforce than, and may not provide the same protection as, patents obtained in the United States and Europe. Failure to avoid infringement of others’ intellectual property rights could impair the Company’s ability to manufacture and market its products. The Company cannot guarantee that its products and manufacturing process will be free of claims by third parties alleging that it has infringed their intellectual property rights. Several third parties hold patents with claims to compositions comprising polymerized hemoglobin and their methods of manufacture and use. One or more of these third parties may assert that the Company activities infringe claims under an existing patent. Any such claim could be expensive and time-consuming to defend, and an adverse litigation result or a settlement of litigation could require the Company to pay damages, obtain a license from the complaining party or a third party, develop non-infringing alternatives or cease using the challenged intellectual property. Any such result could be expensive or result in a protracted plant shutdown, in turn adversely affecting the Company’s ability to operate profitably. There can be no assurance that the Company would prevail in any intellectual property infringement action, or be able to obtain a license to any third-party intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms, to successfully develop non-infringing alternatives on a timely basis, or to license alternative non-infringing intellectual property, if any exists, on commercially reasonable terms. Any significant intellectual property impediment to the Company’s ability to develop and commercialize Hemopure would seriously harm its business and prospects. The Company’s operating results will be adversely affected if it incurs product liability claims in excess of its insurance coverage. The testing and marketing of medical products, even after regulatory approval, have an inherent risk of product liability. The Company maintains limited product liability insurance coverage. The Company’s profitability would be adversely affected by a successful product liability claim in excess of its insurance coverage. The Company cannot guarantee that product liability insurance in adequate coverage amounts will be available in the future or be available on terms it could afford to pay. Replacing its sole- source suppliers for key materials could result in unexpected delays and expenses. The Company obtains some key materials, including membranes and chemicals, and services from sole-source suppliers. All of these materials are commercially available elsewhere. If such materials were no longer available at a reasonable cost from existing suppliers, the Company would need to purchase substitute materials from new suppliers. If a new supplier needed to be located, the substitute or replacement materials or facilities would need to be tested for equivalency. Such equivalency tests could significantly delay product development, or delay or limit commercial sales of approved products and cause the Company to incur additional expense. The Company obtains bovine hemoglobin from one abattoir from animals raised in several states of the United States. The Company cannot predict the future effect, if any, on the Company of the spread of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (“mad cow” disease) in the United States. Any quarantine affecting herds that supply the Company or a shutdown of the abattoir that the Company uses could have a material adverse effect on the Company, as it would have to find, validate and obtain regulatory approval of new sources of supply or new facilities. 23 Table of Contents Provisions of the Company’s restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws could impair or delay stockholders’ ability to replace or remove Company management and could discourage takeover transactions that stockholders might consider to be in their best interest. Provisions of the Company’s restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as its stockholder rights plan, could impede attempts by stockholders to remove or replace management or could discourage others from initiating a potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction, including a potential transaction at a premium over market price that stockholders might consider to be in their best interest. In particular: • The Company’s restated certificate of incorporation does not permit stockholders to take action by written consent and provides for a classified board of directors, and the Company by-laws provide that stockholders who wish to bring business before an annual meeting of stockholders or to nominate candidates for election of directors at an annual meeting of stockholders must deliver advance notice of their proposals to the Company before the meeting. These provisions could make it more difficult for a party to replace the board of directors by requiring two annual stockholder meetings to replace a majority of the directors, making it impossible to remove or elect directors by written consent in lieu of a meeting and making it more difficult to introduce business at meetings • The Company’s stockholder rights plan may have the effect of discouraging any person or group that wishes to acquire more than 20% of our Class A common stock from doing so without obtaining the Company’s agreement to redeem the rights. If the Company agreement to redeem the rights is not obtained, the acquiring person or group would suffer substantial dilution. Consequently, the possible acquirer would likely not complete a transaction that stockholders might consider to be in their best interest. Industry Risks Intense competition could harm the Company’s financial performance. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive. There are a number of companies, universities and research organizations actively engaged in research and development of products that may be similar to, or alternatives to, Hemopure for trauma or ischemia indications. The Company is aware that one public company competitor, Northfield Laboratories Inc., has completed a pivotal trial of a hemoglobin-based oxygen carrier produced from human blood that has passed its expiration date for human transfusion and has filed a BLA. The Company is also aware that other companies are conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials of hemoglobin-based or perfluorocarbon oxygen carriers. The products being developed by these companies are intended for use in humans and as such could compete, if approved by regulatory authorities, with Hemopure. Stringent, ongoing government regulation and inspection of the Company’s facilities could lead to delays in the manufacture, marketing and sale of its products. Generally, regulatory authorities continue to regulate products even after they receive marketing authorization. On September 27, 2007, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 was enacted, giving the FDA enhanced post-market authority. If the FDA or a foreign regulatory agency were to approve Hemopure, the manufacture and marketing of Hemopure would be subject to ongoing regulation, including compliance with current good manufacturing practices, adverse event reporting requirements and general prohibitions against promoting products for unapproved or “off-label” uses. The Company would also be subject to inspection and market surveillance for compliance with these and other requirements. The Company is subject to such regulation, inspection and surveillance in South Africa. Any enforcement action resulting from failure, even by inadvertence, to comply with these requirements could affect the manufacture and marketing of Hemopure. In addition, the regulatory authorities could withdraw a previously approved product from the applicable market(s) upon receipt of newly discovered information. Furthermore, the FDA or foreign regulatory 24 Table of Contents authorities could require the Company to conduct additional, and potentially expensive, studies in areas outside its approved indications. Also, unanticipated changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations could affect and make more expensive the continued manufacturing and marketing of the Company’s products. Uncertainty of third-party reimbursement could affect the Company’s profitability. Sales of medical products largely depend on the reimbursement of patients’ medical expenses by governmental health care programs and private health insurers. Even if Hemopure is approved for marketing, there is no guarantee that governmental health care programs or private health insurers would reimburse for purchases of Hemopure, or reimburse a sufficient amount to permit the Company to sell Hemopure at high enough prices to generate a profit. Hemopure sales in South Africa have been adversely affected by a lack of third-party reimbursement. Investment Risks The Nasdaq Capital Market may cease to list the Company’s Class A common stock which may cause the value of an investment in the Company to substantially decrease. The Company may be unable to meet the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market in the future. To maintain its listing, the Company is required, among other things, to maintain a daily closing bid price per share of $1.00. The Company has been out of compliance since December 14, 2007. Nasdaq suspended enforcement of this rule because of turmoil in the market place. The Company estimates that it now has until June 15, 2009 to regain compliance by having the bid price of its Class A common stock close at $1.00 per share or more for at least 10 consecutive business days. If the Company does not regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule, Nasdaq will provide written notification that the Company’s Class A common stock will be delisted. Delisting would adversely affect the trading price and limit the liquidity of the Company’s common stock and therefore could cause the value of an investment in the Company to decrease. As the Company sells additional shares, the stock price may decline as a result of the dilution that will occur to existing stockholders. Until the Company is profitable, it will need significant additional funds to develop its business and sustain its operations. Any additional sales of shares of its common stock are likely to have a dilutive effect on some or all of the then existing stockholders. Re-sales of newly issued shares in the open market could also have the effect of lowering its stock price, thereby increasing the number of shares the Company may need to issue in the future to raise the same dollar amount and consequently further diluting its outstanding shares. The perceived risk associated with the possible sale of a large number of shares could cause some of the Company stockholders to sell their stock, thus causing the price of the stock to decline. In addition, actual or anticipated downward pressure on the Company’s stock price due to actual or anticipated sales of stock could cause some institutions or individuals to engage in short sales of its common stock, which may itself cause the price of the stock to decline. 