ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following represent some of the factors that create risk and uncertainty for our business and us. If any of the following factors actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are evaluating our strategic options which could result in the sale of our assets, the sale of some or all of our business or a debt or equity financing, any of which may have a negative impact on our business and our stock price. We do not have sufficient funds to fully implement our growth strategy. We have consequently engaged an investment bank to work with our management to evaluate our strategic options. Such evaluation could result in the sale of certain of our product lines, the licensing of certain of our intellectual property to third parties, the sale of our entire business, or the sale of our debt or equity securities. The terms of such transactions, if any, may be unfavorable to our stockholders. A sale of less than our entire business may result in a surviving entity that is materially different from what we are today. A sale of our entire business may not provide adequate proceeds to both discharge our liabilities and provide a return to our stockholders. A financing transaction may be highly dilutive to existing stockholders, impose constraints on our operations, or otherwise have a negative impact on our share price. The availability of strategic options will depend, in part, on market conditions, and the outlook for us. If these transactions do not occur, we may have to delay development or commercialization of certain of our products, license to third parties the rights to commercialize certain of our products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize, reduce our marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our existing products, or otherwise cease certain or all of our operations. We have a history of operating losses and may never achieve profitability. We have not been profitable on a fiscal year basis since our inception in 1986. We incurred net losses of $1.0 million and $3.3 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $50.3 million. We will continue to incur significant costs as we continue our efforts to develop and market our current systems and related applications. If we do achieve profitability in any period, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. The detection, quantification and characterization of tumor cells in circulating blood involve complex and unproven technologies. Our CTC initiative may never become commercially successful. We are developing a system for the detection, quantification and characterization of tumor cells in circulating blood. Some of the technologies involved are complex and unproven. The timing of the system’s development may not meet our expectations. It is possible that we may never be successful in developing a system. Successful development of a system will require us to optimize a protocol for the enrichment of tumor cells. Optimizing a protocol for the enrichment of tumor cells is an effort that entails adapting existing research technology for a clinical setting, a challenging effort that neither we nor our competitors have yet succeeded in accomplishing. We may have to partner with one or more parties in our efforts to develop and optimize the system. We are now assessing, testing and optimizing other cell selection and depletion technologies and methods with other partners. Such partnerships may not be on terms favorable to us. Even if we were successful in developing a system, we may not have sufficient resources to commercialize the system. We may have to engage one or more commercialization partners and such relationships may not result in returns adequate to justify our investment. Our common stock is currently traded on the over-the-counter market, and the liquidity of our stock may be seriously limited. We have been delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. Our common stock is currently traded on the over-the-counter bulletin board. Trading on the over-the-counter bulletin board may adversely impact our stock price and liquidity, and the ability of our stockholders to purchase and sell our shares in an orderly manner. 11 Table of Contents Furthermore, the delisting of our shares could damage our general business reputation and impair our ability to raise additional funds. We expect quarterly revenue and operating results to vary significantly in future periods, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate. If our operating results are below expectations, our stock price could drop. We have experienced significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, and we expect to continue to experience fluctuations in the future. Our customers, who are primarily public and private clinical laboratories, research organizations and hospitals, generally operate on annual budgets. Their budgeting cycles and spending practices affect our revenues. Factors that may have an influence on our operating results in any particular quarter include: • demand for our products, • seasonality of our sales, • accounting, tax, consulting and other professional fees, • new product introductions by us or our competitors, and the costs and time required for a transition to the new products, • delays in the timing of introduction of new products, systems or applications due to longer research and development cycles than anticipated, • changes in the amount of reimbursement to our customers by insurance companies and other third parties for tests conducted on our systems, • timing of orders and shipments for capital equipment sales, • our mix of sales between our distributors and our direct sales force, • competition, including pricing pressures, • timing and amount of research and development expenses, including clinical and pre-clinical trial-related expenditures, • foreign currency fluctuations, and • delays between our incurrence of expenses to develop new products, including expenses related to marketing and service capabilities, and the timing of sales and payments received for the new products. In addition, because we develop applications for our imaging systems, a delay in the release of a system would result in the delay of applications for the system. It is possible in the future that our operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If our operating results fall below market expectations, the price of our common stock could drop significantly. Our operating and capital expenditures are difficult to predict and can depend on a number of factors that are not entirely within our control. The exact timing and amount of our operating and capital spending cannot be accurately determined and will depend on several factors, including: • market acceptance and demand for our products, • competing technological and market developments, • progress of our research and development efforts and planned clinical investigations, and • commercialization of products currently under development by us and our competitors. 12 Table of Contents We have expended and will continue to expend substantial amounts of money for research and development, preclinical testing, clinical investigations, working capital needs and manufacturing and marketing of our products. Our future research and development efforts, in particular, are expected to include development of additional applications for our current cytogenetic and OncoPath™ systems, as well as a system to detect circulating tumor cells which will likely require additional funds. Our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting may not ensure that our public filings include timely and reliable financial information. The effectiveness of our controls and procedures is limited by a variety of factors including: • faulty human judgment and simple error, omissions or mistakes, • fraudulent action of an individual or collusion of two or more people, • inappropriate management override of procedures, and • the possibility that our enhanced controls and procedures may still not be adequate to assure timely and accurate information. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting in place, we could be unable to provide timely and accurate financial information, be subject to, civil and criminal sanctions. By way of example, in March 2005, as a result of an internal investigation by our Audit Committee, we restated our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 and for the quarters ended March 31, 2004 and June 30, 2004 to reflect adjustments to our previously reported financial information. Also, as a result of the investigation, we were unable to timely file the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004 or to announce our financial results for that period. The marketing and sale of our products requires regulatory approval and on-going certifications. Failure to obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals and certifications could prevent or delay our ability to market and sell our products and may subject us to significant regulatory fines or penalties. The FDA regulates design, testing, manufacturing, labeling, distribution, marketing, sales and service of our products. Our products are marketed in the United States according to premarket notifications to the FDA under Section 510(k) of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Unless an exemption applies, each medical device that we wish to market in the United States must first receive either 510(k) clearance or premarket approval from the FDA. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to twelve months, but may take longer. The premarket approval process generally takes from one to three years from the time FDA files the application, but it can be significantly longer and can be significantly more expensive. Although we have obtained the necessary 510(k) clearance for our products, our 510(k) clearance can be revoked if safety or effectiveness problems develop. We may need to seek additional regulatory approval for clearances if we modify existing products or intend to market other products under development and cannot be certain that we would obtain 510(k) clearance or premarket approval in a timely manner or at all. If the FDA requires us to seek 510(k) clearance or premarket approval for any modification to a previously cleared product, we also may be required to cease marketing or recall the modified device until we obtain such clearance or approval. Delays in obtaining clearances or approvals will adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products and may subject us to significant regulatory fines or penalties, which would result in a decline in revenue and profitability. We have in the past received, and may in the future receive, warning letters from the FDA related to improper promotion of an unapproved use of our products. As a result of such warning letters, the FDA could request that we modify our promotional materials or could subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalty. 13 Table of Contents Intellectual property litigation, can be costly, lead to payment of substantial damages or royalties and/or prevent us from manufacturing and selling our current and future products. The medical diagnostic equipment industry, in general, is extremely competitive. Litigation among the participants regarding patent and other intellectual property rights is common. For example, in February 2004, we were sued by Clarient, Inc. The lawsuit claimed that our Ariol system infringed on three Clarient patents. Clarient sought damages, as well as an injunction barring us from, among other things, making, using, or selling any device in the United States that used Clarient’s patents-in-suit. The case settled in March 2005. Whether or not intellectual property infringement claims have merit, they are time consuming and expensive to litigate and divert the attention of technical and management personnel from other work. We may be involved in other litigation to defend against claims of infringement, to enforce our patent rights or to protect our trade secrets. If any other party’s claims are upheld in any litigation or administrative proceeding, we could be prevented from exploiting the subject matter of those claims or forced to obtain licenses from the patent owners or to redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement. In the event of any infringement by us, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products and could require us to pay substantial damages and/or royalties and/or prevent us from manufacturing and selling our current and future products. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We could lose sales and our competitive advantage could be harmed if we are not able to prevent infringement of our intellectual property rights. We rely primarily on trade secret protection and on our unpatented proprietary know-how in the development and manufacturing of our products. Our trade secrets or proprietary technology could become known or be independently developed by our competitors. In addition, the patents we hold may not be sufficiently broad to protect what we believe to be our proprietary rights. Our issued patents could also be disallowed, challenged or circumvented by our competitors. We cannot assure you that competitors or other parties have not filed or in the future will not file applications for, or have not received or in the future will not receive, patents or obtain additional proprietary rights relating to products or processes used or proposed to be used by us. In that case, our competitive position could be harmed and we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others. The market for medical diagnostic equipment for cancer, prenatal and other genetic tests is extremely competitive. Our competitors may succeed in developing products and obtaining related regulatory approvals faster than us. The medical diagnostic equipment industry is highly competitive and competition is likely to intensify. Certain of our competitors have greater financial and technical resources and production and marketing capabilities than us. We cannot assure you that these competitors will not succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective, easier to use or less expensive than those which are currently offered or being developed by us or that would render our technology and products obsolete and noncompetitive. In addition, some of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we have in conducting clinical investigations of new diagnostic products and in obtaining FDA and other regulatory clearances and approvals of products. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in developing and obtaining regulatory approvals for such products more rapidly than us. We operate in a consolidating industry which creates barriers to our market penetration. The healthcare industry in recent years has been characterized by consolidation. Large hospital chains and groups of affiliated hospitals prefer to negotiate comprehensive supply contracts for all of their supply needs at once. Large suppliers can often equip an entire laboratory and offer these hospital chains and groups “one-stop 14 Table of Contents shopping” for laboratory instruments, supplies and services. Larger suppliers also typically offer annual rebates to their customers based on the customer’s total volume of business with the supplier. The convenience and rebates offered by these larger suppliers are administrative and financial incentives that we do not offer our customers. The success of our future plans will depend in part on our ability to overcome these and any new barriers resulting from continued consolidation in the healthcare industry. Any disruption or delay in the supply of components or custom subassemblies could require us to redesign our products or otherwise delay our ability to assemble our products, which could cause our sales to decline and result in continued net losses. We assemble our products from a combination of (i) commodity technology components, such as computers and monitors, (ii) custom subassemblies, such as automated filter wheels, (iii) proprietary hardware for scanning microscopy and (iv) operating systems and proprietary applications software. While we typically use components and subassemblies that are available from alternate sources, any unanticipated interruption of the supply of these components or subassemblies could require us to redesign our products or otherwise delay our ability to assemble our products, which could cause our sales to decline and result in continued net losses. If we fail to comply with Quality System Regulations, our manufacturing operations could be delayed, and our product sales and profitability could suffer. Our manufacturing processes and those of our suppliers are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which covers the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. The FDA enforces the QSR through inspections. We were subject to a QSR inspection in December 2001 and May 2003, as a result of which, the FDA made observations to which we responded. Following our response, the FDA informed us that it did not intend to take further action. We may be inspected in the future and we cannot assure you that we would pass any future inspections. If we fail a QSR inspection, our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing delayed. Failure to take adequate corrective action in response to a QSR inspection could force a shutdown of our manufacturing operations and a recall of our products, which would cause our product sales and profitability to suffer. The marketing and sale of our products outside of the United States is subject to regulations, which vary from those in the United States. Failure to obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals could prevent or delay our ability to market and sell our products in international markets. The regulatory environment for testing, manufacturing, labeling, distributing, marketing and sale of our products varies from country to country. Currently, some of our products, and modifications to these products, may be subject to pre-market approval in selected countries that are members of the European Union. Our products, and modifications to these products, are also subject to other regulatory requirements in those and other countries. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in fines, injunctions, civil penalties, suspensions or loss of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Our products have been classified in Europe as In Vitro diagnostic devices (“IVDs”), which are regulated under a different standard than medical devices. As such, our products are subject to the requirements of the In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Device Directive (IVDD). An IVD is defined as a device which is a reagent, reagent product, kit, instrument, equipment or system, whether used alone or in combination, intended by the manufacturer to be used in vitro for the examination of samples derived from the human body with a view to providing information on a physiological state, state of health or disease, or congenital abnormality. IVDs are specifically excluded from the provisions of the Medical Device Directive (“MDD”), although IVDs are subject to equally stringent but different controls under the IVDD and other directives. If it is determined that our products are marketed as or intended to be issued as equipment that can produce therapeutic effects or alleviate the symptoms of any disability, injury or illness, the equipment may then fall within the scope of the MDD and 15 Table of Contents product registration and appropriate documentation, including possible clinical trials would be required prior to commercialization. That same medical equipment, if also intended and promoted by us for use in the examination of samples derived from the human body with a view to providing information on a physiological state, state of health or disease, or congenital, abnormality, would also be regulated under the IVDD, requiring performance data, including where appropriate, analytical sensitivity, diagnostic sensitivity, analytical specificity, diagnostic specificity, accuracy, repeatability and reproducibility. Although our products are currently regulated under the IVDD, European regulatory authorities may independently interpret our marketing and promotional claims as falling within the scope of the MDD, and require us to comply with its differing requirements, including substantiating any therapeutic claims. A redefinition could harm our marketing and sales if we were restricted from marketing or selling our products until we are able to comply with the MDD. Moreover, a member state of the EU or any other European country could adopt other laws or regulations that require approval to market and sell our products. We depend on distributors to sell our products outside of North America. Sales through our distributors may be lower than direct sales efforts. We rely substantially on independent distributors and sales agents to market and sell our products outside of North America. We cannot assure you that distributors and agents will devote adequate resources to support sales of our products. Our international sales and operations are a significant portion of our business. Changes in international markets and currency fluctuations could lead to a decline in our revenues or result in continued net losses. We have significant international operations based in the United Kingdom. As of March 13, 2006, 27 employees, constituting approximately 40% of the total number of our employees, were based outside the United States. We generate a substantial portion of our revenues from outside of the United States. In 2005 and 2004, we derived approximately 35% and 45% of our total revenues, respectively, from our customers and distributors outside of North America. We expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. The international nature of our business subjects us and our representatives, agents and distributors to laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate and sell our products. Changes in overseas economic conditions, currency exchange rates, foreign tax laws or tariffs or other trade regulations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For example, most of our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, U.K. pounds sterling or Euros. We do not attempt to reduce the risk of currency fluctuations by hedging. Currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar could substantially reduce our U.S. dollar revenue or increase our costs. Changes in currency exchange rates could also make the products of our competitors less expensive than ours, which could result in our customers purchasing our competitors’ products instead of ours. Export controls could prevent us from exporting our products to foreign countries or customers, which could cause our sales to decline and result in continued net losses. Our research, investigational and clinical products are subject to regulation by U.S. Department of Commerce export controls, primarily as they relate to the associated computers. These controls could prevent us from exporting our products to certain countries or customers, which could cause our sales to decline and result in continued net losses. Our customers rely substantially on the availability of third-party reimbursement. Our customers’ failure to obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors could cause our sales and the future growth of our business to decline. Hospitals, physicians and other health care providers in the United States that purchase our products generally rely on third-party payors and other sources for reimbursement of health care costs to reimburse all or 16 Table of Contents part of the cost of the procedures in which our products are used. If hospitals, physicians and other health care providers are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payors for the procedures in which our products or products currently under development are intended to be used, our sales and future growth of our business could be adversely affected. Market acceptance of our products and products under development in countries outside of the United States is also dependent on availability of reimbursement within prevailing health care payment systems in those countries. Reimbursement and health care payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and include both government-sponsored health care and private insurance. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain international reimbursement approvals in a timely manner, if at all. Failure to receive international reimbursement approvals could harm the market acceptance of our products in the international markets in which such approvals are sought. We depend on key technical, scientific and management personnel. Any difficulty in retaining our current employees or in hiring new employees could harm our ability to maintain and build our business operations. Our future success depends in significant part upon the continued service of key scientific, technical and management personnel, and our continuing ability to attract and retain them. Competition for these personnel is intense and we cannot assure you that we can retain our key scientific, technical and managerial personnel or that we can attract or retain other highly qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel in the future. Our key employees include Robin Stracey, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Terence Griffin, our Chief Financial Officer, and Diane Day, our Corporate Vice President-Regulatory, Quality and Clinical Affairs. We have taken steps to retain our key employees, including the granting of stock options that vest over time, and we have entered into employment agreements with key employees. The loss of key personnel, especially if without advance notice, or the inability to hire or retain qualified personnel, could harm our ability to maintain and build our business operations. Furthermore, we have no key man life insurance on any of our key employees. In addition, some companies have adopted a strategy of suing or threatening to sue former employees and their new employers to discourage those employees from leaving. As we hire new employees from our current or potential competitors, we may become a party to one or more lawsuits involving our employees. Any future litigation against us or our employees, regardless of the merit or outcome, may result in substantial costs and expenses to us and may divert management’s attention away from the operation of our business. Undetected errors or failures in our software could result in loss or delay in the market acceptance for our product, lost sales or costly litigation. Our existing products and products under development involve one or more software components that facilitate the detection of chromosomal, genetic or protein abnormalities through the interaction of certain imaging algorithms with the sample under examination. This software, including any new versions that may be released, may contain undetected errors or failures. We cannot assure you that, despite testing by us and our customers, all errors will be found in the software components of our products. Errors in our software could result in loss or delay in the market acceptance for our products, lost sales or costly litigation. A successful products liability claim brought in excess of our insurance coverage could require us to pay substantial damages and result in harm to our business reputation. The manufacture and sale of our products involve the risk of product liability claims. We cannot assure you that the coverage limits of our insurance policies will be adequate in the event we are successfully sued. We evaluate our coverage limits on a regular basis and in connection with the introduction of products currently under development. However, liability insurance is expensive and may not be available on commercially reasonably terms, if at all, or in sufficient coverage amounts to cover all eventualities. A successful claim brought 17 Table of Contents against us in excess of our insurance coverage could require us to pay substantial damages and result in harm to our business reputation. A small number of our stockholders, together with our officers and directors have substantial control over our stock and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. Four of our stockholders who are institutions beneficially own over 43% of our outstanding common stock. Officers and directors as a group beneficially own 7% of our stock as of March 14, 2006. These stockholders will, to the extent they act together, have the ability to exert significant influence and control over matters requiring the approval of our stockholders. Their interests may be different from yours. Matters that typically require stockholder approval include: (i) election of directors; (ii) approval of a merger or consolidation; and (iii) approval of a sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Accordingly, you may not be able to influence any action we take or consider taking, even if it requires a stockholder vote. Our stock price has been volatile. It will likely be volatile in the future. You could lose all or a portion of your investment. The market prices for securities, generally, and for medical diagnostic instrument companies, in particular, including our common stock, have historically been highly volatile. Investment in our common stock is risky, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Many factors could cause the market price of our stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including the announcement of: • an Audit Committee investigation, • our need to seek additional funding in the near future to maintain our operations as planned, • material weakness in our internal controls or procedures, • technological innovations or new competitor products, • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and litigation matters, • publicity regarding actual or potential results with respect to products under development, • regulatory developments in the United States or other countries, • changes or potential changes in reimbursement rates to our customers, • developments in relationships with partners or distributors, • public concern as to the safety of new technologies, or • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or our failure to meet those estimates, In addition, changes in our operating results may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate. Any future sale of a substantial number of shares eligible for resale could depress the trading price of our stock, lower our value and make it more difficult for us to raise capital. According to Forms 4, 13D and 13G filed by our stockholders, approximately 2.8 million shares of our common stock, stock options and warrants (representing approximately 43% of the total shares outstanding) are held by affiliates. Should anyone of our affiliates sell any or all of their holdings in our common stock, it may have the effect of depressing the trading price of our common stock. In addition, such sales could lower our value and make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Our preferred shares rights plan, certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could prevent or delay a takeover of Applied Imaging and negatively impact shareholder value. On May 28, 1998, we adopted a preferred shares rights plan. The purpose of the plan is to assure fair value in the event of a future unsolicited business combination or similar transaction involving Applied Imaging. If an 18 Table of Contents individual or entity accumulates or solicits a tender or exchange offer for 20% of our common stock, or 25% in the case of Special Situation Funds and affiliates, the rights become exercisable for additional shares of our preferred stock. The intent of these rights is to encourage a potential acquirer to negotiate with our Board of Directors to increase the consideration paid for our stock. The existence of this plan, however, may deter a potential acquirer, which could negatively impact stockholder value. We also are authorized to issue 6,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock, which we may issue without stockholder approval and upon such terms as our Board of Directors may determine. In addition, our basic corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover. Any of these provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change in the control of Applied Imaging or a change in our management. The existence of these provisions could adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Changes in, or interpretations of, accounting principles, such as expensing of stock options, could result in unfavorable accounting charges. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Our accounting principles that recently have been or may be affected by changes in the accounting principles are as follows: • software revenue recognition • accounting for share-based payments • accounting for business combinations and related goodwill In particular, the FASB recently issued SFAS 123R which requires the measurement of all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, using a fair-value-based method and the recording of such expense in our consolidated statements of income. The accounting provisions of SFAS 123R are effective for annual periods beginning after June 15, 2005. We are required to adopt SFAS 123R in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006. We believe that the adoption of SFAS 123R will have a significant adverse effect on our reported financial results and may impact the way in which we conduct our business. Please refer to the section entitled “Recent Accounting Pronouncements” for further information regarding SFAS 123R. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 