ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our actual operating results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including but not limited to, those described below. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. ● Patient transport volume – Almost all patient transport revenue and approximately 20% of AMS contract revenue is dependent upon flight volume. Approximately 18% of AMS operating costs incurred during 2013 also vary with the number of hours flown. Poor visibility, high winds, and heavy precipitation can affect the safe operation of aircraft and result in a reduced number of flight hours due to the inability to fly during these conditions. Prolonged periods of adverse weather conditions could have an adverse impact on our operating results due to missed flights or reduced demand for service. Typically, the months from November through February have lower flight volume due to weather conditions and other factors, resulting in lower patient transport revenue during these months. Flight volume related to patient transports can also be affected by the distribution of calls among competitors by local government agencies and the entrance of new competitors into a market. Over the past several years, the increase in the number of air medical helicopters operating within the United States has outpaced trends in the demand for service. Demand for air medical transportation may also be unfavorably impacted by an overall slow-down in economic activity; a decrease in road traffic volume because of unusually high spikes in fuel prices or other factors; cost of the service; loss of confidence in certain markets because of accidents within the air medical industry; or questions regarding the medical necessity for certain transports. In addition, if hospitals within our service areas expand operations to include trauma centers, cardiac catheterization labs, and similar capabilities, the demand for our services may decrease. Conversely, a trend toward hospital consolidation may increase demand for air medical transportation. Finally, a number of our bases are located in rural areas throughout the United States and are difficult to staff with appropriate personnel, resulting in lower in-service rates and, therefore, lower flight volume. ● Collection rates – We respond to calls for air medical transport without pre-screening the creditworthiness of the patient. For our independent service operations, we invoice patients and their insurers directly for services rendered and recognize revenue net of provisions for contractual discounts and estimated uncompensated care. Both provisions are estimated during the period the related services are performed based on historical collection experience and any known trends or changes in reimbursement rate schedules and payer mix. The provisions are adjusted as required based on actual collections in subsequent periods. Net reimbursement per patient transport is primarily a function of price, payer mix, and timely and effective collection efforts. To the extent that complexity associated with patient billing causes delays in our cash collections, we assume the financial risk of carrying costs associated with the aging of our accounts receivable as well as the increased potential for unrecoverable accounts. Both the pace of collections and the ultimate collection rate are affected 6 by the overall health of the U.S. economy and the unemployment rate, which impact the number of indigent patients and funding for state-run programs, such as Medicaid. Medicaid reimbursement rates in many jurisdictions have remained well below the cost of providing air medical transportation. However, Medicaid represents a small percentage of the revenue we realize from patient transports. The collection rate is also impacted by changes in the cost of healthcare and health insurance, as well as economic pressures on employers. As the cost of healthcare increases and businesses explore ways to contain or reduce operating costs, health insurance coverage provided by employers may be reduced, resulting in an increase in balances billed to individuals. A shift of 1% of our payer mix from insured accounts to either Medicaid or uninsured accounts would result in a decrease of $12.8 million to $13.6 million in pre-tax operating results. Similar to Medicaid reimbursement rates, Medicare rates are less than the cost of providing air medical transportation, and, therefore, our collection rates may decline as more of the U.S. population becomes eligible for Medicare coverage. Net reimbursement per transport from private patient payers, Medicare, and Medicaid does not increase proportionately with price increases. To the extent that healthcare reform or other forces result in a reversal of the trend away from insurance coverage, reimbursement rates may increase. Consolidation of insurance payers and healthcare providers, such as hospitals and doctors, could place pressure on flight demand and increase the integrated entities’ leverage to apply discounts to reimbursement rates. Although we have not yet experienced significant increased limitations in the amount reimbursed by insurance companies, any future price increases may cause insurance companies to limit coverage for air medical transport to amounts less than our standard rates. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain historical collection rates after the implementation of price increases for patient transports. ● Billing investigations and audits – State and federal statutes impose substantial penalties—including civil and criminal fines, exclusion from participation in government programs, and imprisonment—on entities or individuals (including any individual corporate officers or physicians deemed responsible) that fraudulently or wrongfully bill governmental or other third-party payers for services. We believe that audits, inquiries, and investigations from government agencies will continue to occur from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, including as a result of our arrangements with hospitals and healthcare providers and of our UR Division contracts. In addition, we may be subject to increased audits from private payers to the extent they encounter pricing pressures related to healthcare reform. This could result in substantial defense costs to us and a diversion of management’s time and attention. Such pending or future audits, inquiries, or investigations, or the public disclosure of such matters, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ● Healthcare reform – One of the key goals of PPACA is to increase access to health benefits for the uninsured or underinsured populations, partially through new federal rules related to private health insurance offerings. PPACA also includes, among other things, Medicare payment and delivery reforms aimed at containing costs, rewarding quality, and improving outcomes through coordinated care arrangements. The new federal rules in PPACA may create pricing pressure on private health insurance premiums and, as a result, pricing pressure on providers. PPACA also includes provisions that expand the government’s ability to combat healthcare program fraud, abuse, and waste. To the extent uninsured patients obtain any type of insurance coverage, our collection rates may increase. To the extent patients currently covered by private insurance move to government-run programs or to proposed public or private insurance exchanges, collection rates may decrease. Government-run programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, may also impose additional discounts in determining their reimbursement rates to offset the cost of expanding coverage to a greater number of participants. In addition, states are allowed to opt out of the Medicaid expansion, which may limit the number of uninsured patients which receive coverage. See further discussion regarding the impact of PPACA in the “Government Regulation” section of Part I of this report. 7 ● Completion and integration of acquisitions – On December 13, 2013, we acquired BHH. We expect to continue to seek opportunities to grow through attractive acquisitions. However, acquisitions present a number of challenges, including significant effort to assimilate the operations, financial and accounting practices, and information systems, and to integrate key personnel from the acquired business. To manage our growth effectively, we must expand and improve our operational, financial, and management controls, information systems, and procedures. Acquisitions may cause disruptions in our operations and divert management’s attention from day-to-day operations. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the BHH acquisition or any future acquisitions, profitability may suffer due to acquisition-related costs or unanticipated liabilities, and our stock price may decrease if the financial markets consider any acquisition to be inappropriately priced. ● Tourism flight volume – All tourism revenue is dependent upon flight volume but only approximately 30% of our tourism operating expenses incurred during the year ended December 31, 2013, vary with the number of hours flown. Typically, flight volume for Sundance’s operations tends to be lower during the first and fourth quarters of the year due to the length of daylight hours and traditional vacation schedules. BHH does not experience significant seasonal variation in passenger volume. Because international travelers account for a significant number of tourism customers, flight volume may also be impacted by worldwide economic conditions and international currency exchange rates. In addition, approximately 25-30% of Sundance’s bookings originate with one online booking company. ● Dependence on third party suppliers – We currently obtain a substantial portion of our helicopter spare parts and components from Airbus Helicopters (Airbus) and Bell Helicopter, Inc. (Bell) and maintain supply arrangements with other parties for our engine and related dynamic components. As of December 31, 2013, Airbus aircraft comprise 82% of our helicopter fleet while Bell aircraft constitute 16%. Based upon the manufacturing capabilities and industry contacts of Airbus, Bell, and other suppliers, we believe we will not be subject to material interruptions or delays in obtaining aircraft parts and components but do not have an alternative source of supply for Airbus, Bell, and certain other aircraft parts. Failure or significant delay by these vendors in providing necessary parts could, in the absence of alternative sources of supply, have a material adverse effect on us. Increases in spare parts prices tend to be higher for aircraft which are no longer in production. The ability to pass on price increases may be limited by reimbursement rates established by Medicare, Medicaid, and insurance providers and by other market considerations. ● Disposition of aircraft – We are dependent upon the secondary used aircraft market to dispose of older models of aircraft as part of our ongoing fleet rejuvenation efforts. In the past several years, the demand for used aircraft has diminished. If we are unable to dispose of our older aircraft, our aircraft carrying costs may increase above requirements for our current operations, or we may accept lower selling prices, resulting in losses on disposition or reduced gains. The types of aircraft targeted for disposition as part of our fleet rejuvenation usually have lower carrying costs than new aircraft. We have also been able to convert some aircraft to spare parts to support the operation of our existing fleet, rather than seeking to sell the aircraft to a third party. ● Employee unionization – Our AMS pilots have been represented by a collective bargaining unit since September 2003, and the most recent CBA expired in December 2013. Negotiations have begun on a new CBA but no agreement has yet been reached. The CBA establishes procedures for training, addressing grievances, discipline and discharge, among other matters, and defines vacation, holiday, sick, health insurance, and other employee benefits. Union personnel have actively attempted to organize other employee groups in the past, and these groups may elect to be represented by unions in the future. Tourism pilots are not currently subject to the CBA. 8 ● AMS competition – We face significant competition from several national and regional air medical transportation providers for contracts with hospitals and other healthcare institutions. A number of hospitals and healthcare institutions have also elected to operate their own Part 135 Certificate, thereby eliminating the need for a third party to provide air medical transportation services. In addition, we face competition from smaller regional carriers and alternative air ambulance providers such as sheriff departments for patient transports. In some cases advanced life support and critical care transport ground ambulance providers may also be competing for the same transports. Air medical operators generally compete on the basis of price, safety record, accident prevention and training, and the medical capability of the aircraft. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully for new or renewing AMS contracts or market share in the future. ● Tourism competition – We face competition from two larger aerial tourism operators in the Grand Canyon market and a number of smaller operators in both the Grand Canyon and Hawaiian Island markets. Aerial tourism operators generally compete on the basis of price and customer satisfaction. Strong brand recognition and proximity to popular vacation sights also help to distinguish one competitor over another. Some operators are also exploring innovative but higher risk operations, such as doors-off flights, to attract customers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully for market share in the future. ● Hualapai contract – Sundance maintains a contract with the Hualapai Tribe to allow flights over and landings on tribal land adjoining Grand Canyon National Park. The relationship between Sundance and the Hualapai has been in place for 25 years, with the current contract effective through March 2016. The contract results in mutual benefit, providing flights for Sundance and additional tourist traffic at Hualapai attractions. Failure to continue to successfully renew the contract with the Hualapai could have a significant adverse impact on the results of operations for the Tourism division. ● Park overflight restrictions – The United States National Park Service limits the number of flights over national parks annually. We currently have flyover rights to conduct aerial tours over the Grand Canyon National Park and two major national parks in Hawaii, along with some smaller national parks. Regulatory changes or environmental pressures could result in changes to the number of flyover rights issued to aerial tourism operators by the Park Service or to the requirements for noise-diminishing technology on our aircraft. Additional restrictions on flyover rights or changes in technology requirements could have a significant adverse impact on our flight volume or cost of operations for our Tourism division. ● Passenger terminal facilities – We currently operate our aerial tours out of several airports located in Las Vegas and the Hawaiian Islands. These facilities are strategically located in close proximity to tourist traffic. If these airports were to restrict access for rotor wing operations, our tourism flight volume may be significantly adversely impacted. In addition, Hawaii has a limited number of hangar and helipad sites, which may limit the ability of other competitors to enter the market but also our ability to expand operations to other locations within the state. ● Aviation industry hazards and insurance limitations – Hazards are inherent in the aviation industry and may result in loss of life and property, thereby exposing us to potentially substantial liability claims arising from the operation of aircraft. We may also be sued in connection with medical malpractice claims arising from events occurring during or relating to medical flights. Under most AMS operating agreements, our customers have agreed to indemnify us against liability arising from medical malpractice claims and to maintain insurance covering such liability, but there can be no assurance that a hospital will not challenge the indemnification rights or will have sufficient assets or insurance coverage to fulfill its indemnity obligations. In independent model operations, our personnel perform medical procedures on transported patients, which may expose us directly to medical malpractice claims. We maintain general liability aviation insurance, aviation product liability coverage, and medical malpractice insurance, and believe our level of coverage is customary in the industry and adequate to protect against claims. However, there can be no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover potential claims or that present levels of coverage will be available in the future at reasonable cost. A limited number of hull and liability insurance underwriters provide coverage for air medical and tourism operators. Insurance underwriters are required by various federal and state regulations to maintain minimum levels of reserves for known and expected claims. However, there can be no assurance that underwriters have 9 established adequate reserves to fund existing and future claims. The number of air medical accidents, as well as the number of insured losses within other helicopter operations and the commercial airline industry, and the impact of general economic conditions on underwriters may result in increases in premiums above the rate of inflation. Approximately 44% of any increases in hull and liability insurance may be passed through to our AMS contract customers according to contract terms. Loss of any aircraft as a result of accidents could cause adverse publicity and interruption of services to client hospitals, which could adversely affect our operating results and relationships with such hospitals. Accidents within aerial tourism and the resulting adverse publicity could significantly adversely affect our tourism flight volume. ● Fuel costs – Fuel accounted for 4.0% of total AMS operating expenses and 12.1% of Tourism operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2013. Both the cost and availability of fuel are influenced by many economic and political factors and events occurring in oil-producing countries throughout the world. The price per barrel of oil has fluctuated significantly over the past several years. We cannot predict the future cost and availability of fuel or the impact of disruptions in oil supplies or refinery production from natural disasters. The unavailability of adequate fuel supplies or higher fuel prices could have an adverse effect on our cost of operations and profitability. Generally, our AMS hospital contract customers pay for all fuel consumed in medical flights. However, our ability to pass on increased fuel costs for community-based operations may be limited by reimbursement rates established by Medicare, Medicaid, and insurance providers. Economic and competitive conditions may also limit our ability to fully recover increased fuel costs for community-based operations and tourism operations. Since 2009, we have carried financial derivative agreements to protect against increases in the cost of Gulf Coast jet fuel. During 2013, fuel derivatives covered the majority of our fuel consumption, and in the first quarter of 2014, we entered into fuel derivatives to cover all of our anticipated AMS fuel consumption for 2014. ● Employee recruitment and retention – An important aspect of our operations is the ability to hire and retain employees who have advanced aviation, nursing, and other technical skills. In addition, hospital contracts typically contain minimum certification requirements for pilots and mechanics. Employees who meet these standards are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource in the foreseeable future. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these employees, the ability to maintain and grow the business could be negatively impacted. A limited supply of qualified applicants may also contribute to wage increases which outpace the rate of inflation. ● Loss of key personnel – Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our core senior management team, including our Chief Executive Officer. If one or more of these individuals were unable or unwilling to continue in his or her present position, our business may be disrupted and we may not be able to find replacements on a timely basis or with the same level of skill and experience. Finding and hiring any such replacements could be costly and may require us to grant significant incentive compensation. ● Restrictive debt covenants – Our senior credit facility contains restrictive financial and operating covenants, including restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness and to engage in various corporate transactions such as mergers, acquisitions, asset sales, and payment of future cash dividends. These covenants may restrict future growth through the limitation on acquisitions and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business plan. Failure to comply with the covenants defined in the agreement or to maintain the required financial ratios could result in an event of default and accelerate payment of the principal balances due under the senior credit facility. Given factors beyond our control, such as interruptions in operations from unusual weather patterns or decreases in flight volume due to overall economic conditions not included in current projections, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remain in compliance with financial covenants in the future, or that, in the event of non-compliance, we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders, or that to obtain such waivers, we will not be required to pay lenders significant cash or equity compensation. 10 ● Technology and information systems – We are dependent on the proper function, availability and security of our information systems, including without limitation those systems utilized in our flight, dispatch and collection operations. We have undertaken measures to protect the safety and security of our information systems and the data maintained within those systems, and on an annual basis, we test the adequacy of our security and disaster recovery measures. As part of our efforts, we may be required to expend significant capital to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches, including unauthorized access to patient data and personally identifiable information stored in our information systems and the introduction of computer malware to our systems. However, there can no assurance our safety and security measures or our disaster recovery plan will detect and prevent security breaches in a timely manner or otherwise prevent damage or interruption of our systems and operations. We may be vulnerable to losses associated with the improper functioning, security breach or unavailability of our information systems. We may be held liable to our patients, customers, and regulators, which could result in fines, litigation, or negative publicity. ● Governmental regulation – The air medical transportation services and products and aerial tourism industries are subject to extensive regulation by governmental agencies, including the FAA and Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), which imposes significant compliance costs on us. Changes in laws or regulations could have a material adverse impact on our cost of operations or revenue from flight operations. Further, failure to comply with these extensive laws and regulations or the terms or conditions may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations or corrective actions, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or prohibiting some of or all of our operations. ● Government contracting – Approximately 3.7% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013, was derived from contracts with the U.S. government, including United Rotorcraft contracts for the manufacture of interiors for the U.S. Army’s HH-60M helicopter. U.S. government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for default as a result of our failure to perform under the applicable contract. If terminated by the government as a result of our default, we could be liable for additional costs the government incurs in acquiring undelivered goods or services from another source and any other damages it suffers. United Rotorcraft is also sensitive to U.S. military budgets, which may be impacted by numerous economic and political factors and which may fluctuate based on the policies of the current administration or Congress. In addition, specific government programs in which we participate, or in which we may seek to participate in the future, compete with other programs for consideration during the budget formulation and appropriation processes. One or more of the programs that we currently support could be phased out or terminated. Reductions in these existing programs, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could have a material adverse effect on the competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition of the United Rotorcraft Division. ● Debt and lease obligations – We are obligated under debt facilities and capital lease arrangements providing for up to $764.8 million of indebtedness, of which $676.8 million was outstanding at December 31, 2013, and operating lease obligations which total $45.6 million over the remaining terms of the leases. If we fail to meet our payment obligations or otherwise default under the agreements governing indebtedness or lease obligations, the lenders under those agreements will have the right to accelerate the indebtedness and exercise other rights and remedies against us. These rights and remedies include the rights to repossess and foreclose upon the assets that serve as collateral, initiate judicial foreclosure against us, petition a court to appoint a receiver for us, and initiate involuntary bankruptcy proceedings against us. If lenders exercise their rights and remedies, our assets may not be sufficient to repay outstanding indebtedness and lease obligations, and there may be no assets remaining after payment of indebtedness and lease obligations to provide a return on common stock. 11 ● Foreign ownership – Federal law requires that United States air carriers be citizens of the United States. For a corporation to qualify as a United States citizen, the president and at least two-thirds of directors and other managing officers of the corporation must be United States citizens and at least 75% of the voting interest of the corporation must be owned or controlled by United States citizens. If we are unable to satisfy these requirements, operating authority from the Department of Transportation may be revoked. As of December 31, 2013, we are not aware of any foreign person who holds more than 5% of our outstanding Common Stock. Because we are unable to control the transfer of our stock, we are unable to assure that we can remain in compliance with these requirements in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 