ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our actual operating results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including but not limited to, those discussed in “Outlook for 2008” and those described below. · Flight volume – Almost all CBS revenue and approximately 35% of HBS revenue is dependent upon flight volume. Approximately 24% of our total operating expenses also vary with the number of hours flown. Poor visibility, high winds, and heavy precipitation can affect the safe operation of aircraft and therefore result in a reduced number of flight hours due to the inability to fly during these conditions. Prolonged periods of adverse weather conditions could have an adverse impact on our operating results. Typically, the months from November through February tend to have lower flight volume due to weather conditions and other factors, resulting in lower CBS operating revenue during these months. Flight volume for CBS operations can also be affected by the distribution of calls among competitors by local government agencies and the entrance of new competitors into a market. The past several years have seen significant increases in the number of community-based units operated within the industry. Although to date we have not experienced an overall decrease in patient transports for CBS bases open longer than one year (Same-Base Transports) on an annual basis primarily attributed to competition, further increases in the total number of community-based units may create overcapacity which may, in turn, lead to reductions in flight volume for any one provider. 4 Table of Contents · Collection rates – We respond to calls for air medical transport without pre-screening the creditworthiness of the patient. The CBS Division invoices patients and their insurers directly for services rendered and recognizes revenue net of provisions for contractual discounts and estimated uncompensated care. Both provisions are estimated during the period the related services are performed based on historical collection experience and any known trends or changes in reimbursement rate schedules and payer mix. The provisions are adjusted as required based on actual collections in subsequent periods. Net reimbursement per transport for CBS operations is primarily a function of price, payer mix, and timely and effective collection efforts. Both the pace of collections and the ultimate collection rate are affected by the overall health of the U.S. economy, which impacts the number of indigent patients and funding for state-run programs, such as Medicaid. Medicaid reimbursement rates in many jurisdictions have remained well below the cost of providing air medical transportation. In addition, the collection rate is impacted by changes in the cost of healthcare and health insurance; as the cost of healthcare increases, health insurance coverage provided by employers may be reduced or eliminated entirely, resulting in an increase in the uninsured population. Our ability to collect price increases in our standard charge structure has generally been limited to accounts covered by insurance providers. Although we have not yet experienced significant increased limitations in the amount reimbursed by insurance companies, continued price increases may cause insurance companies to limit coverage for air medical transport to amounts less than our standard rates. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain historical collection rates after the implementation of price increases for CBS transports. · Dependence on third party suppliers – We currently obtain a substantial portion of our helicopter spare parts and components from AEC and Bell and maintain supply arrangements with other parties for our engine and related dynamic components. As of December 31, 2007, AEC aircraft comprise 73% of our helicopter fleet while Bell aircraft constitute 22%. Almost all of the new helicopters scheduled for delivery in 2008 are AEC aircraft. Since both manufacturers are essentially sold out of new aircraft for the foreseeable future, both have been passing through increases in the price of new aircraft and spare parts which are higher than overall inflationary trends. In addition, increases in spare parts prices tend to be higher for aircraft which are no longer in production. Increases in our monthly and hourly flight fees billed to our HBS customers in certain cases are limited to changes in the consumer price index. As a result, an unusually high increase in the price of parts may not be fully passed on to our HBS customers. The ability to pass on price increases for CBS operations may be limited by reimbursement rates established by Medicare, Medicaid, and insurance providers and by other market considerations. Based upon the manufacturing capabilities and industry contacts of AEC, Bell, and other suppliers, we believe we will not be subject to material interruptions or delays in obtaining aircraft parts and components but do not have an alternative source of supply for AEC, Bell, and certain other aircraft parts. Failure or significant delay by these vendors in providing necessary parts could, in the absence of alternative sources of supply, have a material adverse effect on us. · Aircraft availability – The recent high rate of growth in the air medical transportation and other helicopter services industries has generated strong demand for new models of helicopters. Most major helicopter manufacturers are sold out of the majority of new aircraft models suitable for medical missions for at least the next two years. Quality used aircraft are also in short supply worldwide. We have endeavored to mitigate the shortage of suitable aircraft and limit our exposure to the effect of price increases on new aircraft primarily through long-term arrangements with a single aircraft manufacturer which provides us options to purchase up to ten aircraft each year for the next several years. We also have a purchase commitment with another aircraft manufacturer for fifteen aircraft, with deliveries scheduled to begin in late 2008 or early 2009, as well as options for an additional fifteen aircraft in future years. In addition, prior to the acquisition, CJ had signed purchase commitments for seventeen aircraft which were still in effect as of December 31, 2007. Despite these purchase commitments and options, if our future needs for aircraft exceed our current projections, the shortage of aircraft could prevent us from pursuing certain expansion opportunities. If our future needs for aircraft are less than our current projections, the ownership costs for new deliveries could exceed our ability to recover them through increased revenue. Presently, a vibrant secondary market for these models of aircraft exists which may allow us to sell aircraft not needed in our operations. 5 Table of Contents · Employee unionization - In September 2003, our pilots voted to be represented by a collective bargaining unit, and we signed a CBA on March 31, 2006. The agreement is effective January 1, 2006, through April 30, 2009. The CBA establishes procedures for training, addressing grievances, discipline and discharge, among other matters, and defines vacation, holiday, sick, health insurance, and other employee benefits. The CBA also establishes wage scales, including adjustments for geographic locations, covering each year of the agreement. There can be no assurance that the CBA will be renewed prior to expiration, and if the CBA is renewed, there can be no assurance that the renewal terms will resemble the terms of the current CBA. Union personnel have also actively attempted to organize other employee groups in the past and these groups may elect to be represented by unions in the future. · Employee recruitment and retention - An important aspect of our operations is the ability to hire and retain employees who have advanced aviation, nursing, and other technical skills. In addition, hospital contracts typically contain minimum certification requirements for pilots and mechanics. Employees who meet these standards are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource in the foreseeable future. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these employees, the ability to maintain and grow the business could be negatively impacted. A limited supply of qualified applicants may also contribute to wage increases which outpace the rate of inflation. · Competition – HBS operations face significant competition from several national and regional air medical transportation providers for contracts with hospitals and other healthcare institutions. In addition to the national and regional providers, CBS operations also face competition from smaller regional carriers and alternative air ambulance providers such as sheriff departments. Operators generally compete on the basis of price, safety record, accident prevention and training, and the medical capability of the aircraft. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully for new or renewing contracts in the future. · Fuel costs – Fuel accounted for 3.3% of total operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2007. Both the cost and availability of fuel are influenced by many economic and political factors and events occurring in oil-producing countries throughout the world, and fuel costs fluctuate widely. The price per barrel of oil has maintained near record levels over the past several years. We cannot predict the future cost and availability of fuel. The unavailability of adequate fuel supplies could have an adverse effect on our cost of operations and profitability. Generally, our HBS customers pay for all fuel consumed in medical flights. However, our ability to pass on increased fuel costs for CBS operations may be limited by economic and competitive conditions and by reimbursement rates established by Medicare, Medicaid, and insurance providers. We do not currently have any agreements in place to hedge our fuel costs. · Aviation industry hazards and insurance limitations – Hazards are inherent in the aviation industry and may result in loss of life and property, thereby exposing us to potentially substantial liability claims arising from the operation of aircraft. We may also be sued in connection with medical malpractice claims arising from events occurring during medical flights. Under HBS operating agreements, our customers have agreed to indemnify us against liability arising from medical malpractice claims and to maintain insurance covering such liability, but there can be no assurance that a hospital will not challenge the indemnification rights or will have sufficient assets or insurance coverage for full indemnity. In CBS operations, our personnel perform medical procedures on transported patients, which may expose us to significant direct legal exposure to medical malpractice claims. We maintain general liability aviation insurance, aviation product liability coverage, and medical malpractice insurance, and believe our level of coverage is customary in the industry and adequate to protect against claims. However, there can be no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover potential claims or that present levels of coverage will be available in the future at reasonable cost. A limited number of hull and liability insurance underwriters provide coverage for air medical operators. A significant downturn in insurance market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our cost of operations. Approximately 43% of any increases in hull and liability insurance may be passed through to our HBS customers according to contract terms. In addition, loss of any aircraft as a result of accidents could cause adverse publicity and interruption of services to client hospitals, which could adversely affect our operating results and relationship with such hospitals. 6 Table of Contents · Restrictive debt covenants – Our senior credit facility contains restrictive financial and operating covenants, including restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness and to engage in various corporate transactions such as mergers, acquisitions, asset sales and the payment of cash dividends. These covenants may restrict future growth through the limitation on acquisitions and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business plan. Failure to comply with the covenants defined in the agreement or to maintain the required financial ratios could result in an event of default and accelerate payment of the principal balances due under the senior credit facility. Given factors beyond our control, such as interruptions in operations from unusual weather patterns not included in current projections, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remain in compliance with financial covenants in the future, or that, in the event of non-compliance, we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders, or that to obtain such waivers, we will not be required to pay lenders significant cash or equity compensation. · Governmental regulation – The air medical transportation services and products industry is subject to extensive regulation by governmental agencies, including the FAA, which impose significant compliance costs on us. In addition, reimbursement rates for air ambulance services established by governmental programs such as Medicare directly affect CBS revenue and indirectly affect HBS revenue from customers. Changes in laws or regulations or in reimbursement rates could have a material adverse impact on our cost of operations or revenue from flight operations. Periodically the FAA issues airworthiness directives covering one or more models of aircraft. Although we believe that our aircraft are currently in compliance with all FAA-issued airworthiness directives, additional airworthiness directives likely will be issued in the future and may result in additional operating costs or make a particular model of aircraft uneconomical to operate. In recent years, the accident rate for the entire air medical transportation industry has exceeded historical levels, leading to increased scrutiny from government regulatory agencies. Such increased scrutiny could result in new regulations and increases in the cost of compliance with regulations. · Compliance with corporate governance and public disclosure regulations – Laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure—including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, related SEC regulations, and NASDAQ Market rules—are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to lack of specificity. Their application may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. Our efforts to maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure in compliance with evolving laws and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires us to include management and auditor reports on internal controls as part of our annual report, has required commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. In addition, board members, the chief executive officer, and the chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers. If efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations, and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. · Internal controls – We are required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to include management and auditor reports on internal controls as part of our annual report. Management concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective at December 31, 2007, and our independent auditors attested to that conclusion. As permitted by SEC guidance, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting excludes the evaluation of internal controls over financial reporting of FSS Airholdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries, which were acquired on October 1, 2007. There can be no assurance that material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting will not be discovered in the future or that we and our independent auditors will be able to conclude that internal control over financial reporting is effective in the future. Although it is unclear what impact failure to comply fully with Section 404 or the discovery of a material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting would have on us, it may subject us to regulatory scrutiny and result in additional expenditures to meet the requirements, a reduced ability to obtain financing, or a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy of our financial reports. 7 Table of Contents · Debt and lease obligations – We are obligated under debt facilities providing for up to approximately $152.7 million of indebtedness, of which approximately $114.2 million was outstanding (net of $5.1 million of cash) at December 31, 2007, and operating lease obligations which total $352.9 million over the remaining terms of the leases. If we fail to meet our payment obligations or otherwise default under the agreements governing indebtedness or lease obligations, the lenders under those agreements will have the right to accelerate the indebtedness and exercise other rights and remedies against us. These rights and remedies include the rights to repossess and foreclose upon the assets that serve as collateral, initiate judicial foreclosure against us, petition a court to appoint a receiver for us, and initiate involuntary bankruptcy proceedings against us. If lenders exercise their rights and remedies, our assets may not be sufficient to repay outstanding indebtedness and lease obligations, and there may be no assets remaining after payment of indebtedness and lease obligations to provide a return on common stock. · Department of Defense funding – Several of the projects which have historically been significant sources of revenue for the Products Division, including HH-60L and MEV systems, are dependent upon Department of Defense funding. Failure of the U.S. Congress to approve funding for the production of additional HH-60L or MEV units could have a material adverse impact on Products Division revenue. · Foreign ownership – Federal law requires that United States air carriers be citizens of the United States. For a corporation to qualify as a United States citizen, the president and at least two-thirds of the directors and other managing officers of the corporation must be United States citizens and at least 75% of the voting interest of the corporation must be owned or controlled by United States citizens. If we are unable to satisfy these requirements, operating authority from the Department of Transportation may be revoked. As of December 31, 2007, we are not aware of any foreign person who holds more than 5% of outstanding Common Stock. Because we are unable to control the transfer of our stock, we are unable to assure that we can remain in compliance with these requirements in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 