ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our actual operating results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including but not limited to, those described below. · Flight volume – Almost all CBS revenue and approximately 24% of HBS revenue is dependent upon flight volume. Approximately 19% of our costs primarily associated with flight operations incurred during the year ended December 31, 2009, also vary with the number of hours flown. Poor visibility, high winds, and heavy precipitation can affect the safe operation of aircraft and therefore result in a reduced number of flight hours due to the inability to fly during these conditions. Prolonged periods of adverse weather conditions could have an adverse impact on our operating results due to missed flights or reduced demand for service. Typically, the months from November through February tend to have lower flight volume due to weather conditions and other factors, resulting in lower CBS operating revenue during these months. Flight volume for CBS operations can also be affected by the distribution of calls among c ompetitors by local government agencies and the entrance of new competitors into a market. The number of bases operated by commercial entities within the air medical industry has increased 35% over the last five years. We believe this increase has resulted in overcapacity in certain markets. Transport volume may also be unfavorably impacted by an overall slow-down in economic activity; a decrease in road traffic volume because of unusually high spikes in fuel prices or other factors; cost of the service; loss of confidence in certain markets because of recent, high-profile accidents within the air medical industry; or questions regarding the medical necessity for certain transports. 4 Table of Contents · Collection rates – We respond to calls for air medical transport without pre-screening the creditworthiness of the patient. The CBS Division invoices patients and their insurers directly for services rendered and recognizes revenue net of provisions for contractual discounts and estimated uncompensated care. Both provisions are estimated during the period the related services are performed based on historical collection experience and any known trends or changes in reimbursement rate schedules and payer mix. The provisions are adjusted as required based on actual collections in subsequent periods. Net reimbursement per transport for CBS operations is primarily a function of price, payer mix, and timely and effective collection efforts. Both the pace of collections and the ultimate collection rate are affected by the overall health of the U.S. economy and the unemployment rate, which impact the number of in digent patients and funding for state-run programs, such as Medicaid. Medicaid reimbursement rates in many jurisdictions have remained well below the cost of providing air medical transportation. Although we have not yet experienced a direct impact on Medicaid rates, the pressure on state governments to balance their budgets may lead them to decrease Medicaid benefits offered to their citizens. In addition, the collection rate is impacted by changes in the cost of healthcare and health insurance, as well as economic pressures on employers. As the cost of healthcare increases and businesses explore ways to contain or reduce operating costs, health insurance coverage provided by employers may be reduced or eliminated entirely, resulting in an increase in the uninsured population. Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, the federal government has subsidized the cost of COBRA healthcare coverage for qualified unemployed individuals for up to fifteen months. If this subsidy is reduced or elimina ted, the uninsured population resulting from the current economic downturn may increase. Pending healthcare legislation, if enacted, may also affect collections. Healthcare legislation which may call for discounts in Medicare or Medicaid fee schedules or which may incentivize a migration of people from private insurance coverage to public plans with lower reimbursement rates could have an adverse impact on our collection rates. Healthcare legislation which may result in greater coverage of presently uninsured individuals could have a positive impact on our collection rates. There can be no assurance that any healthcare reform legislation will be enacted. The timing of the effect of any legislation on our operations is also currently unknown. A shift of 1% of our payer mix from insured accounts to either Medicaid or uninsured accounts would result in a decrease of $4.2 million to $4.9 million in pre-tax operating results. Our ability to collect price increases in our standard charge structure has generally be en limited to accounts covered by insurance providers. Although we have not yet experienced significant increased limitations in the amount reimbursed by insurance companies, continued price increases may cause insurance companies to limit coverage for air medical transport to amounts less than our standard rates. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain historical collection rates after the implementation of price increases for CBS transports. · Dependence on third party suppliers – We currently obtain a substantial portion of our helicopter spare parts and components from AEC and Bell and maintain supply arrangements with other parties for our engine and related dynamic components. As of December 31, 2009, AEC aircraft comprise 79% of our helicopter fleet while Bell aircraft constitute 18%. All of the new helicopters scheduled for delivery in 2010 are AEC aircraft. Increases in spare parts prices tend to be higher for aircraft which are no longer in production. Increases in our monthly and hourly flight fees billed to our HBS customers in a few cases are limited to changes in the consumer price index. As a result, an unusually high increase in the price of parts may not be fully passed on to our HBS customers. The ability to pass on price increases for CBS operations may be limited by reimbursement rates established by Medicare, Medicaid, and ins urance providers and by other market considerations. Since current inflation trends are at or near zero, annual price increases for both Medicare and Medicaid for the next few years are expected to be reduced in comparison to previous years. Based upon the manufacturing capabilities and industry contacts of AEC, Bell, and other suppliers, we believe we will not be subject to material interruptions or delays in obtaining aircraft parts and components but do not have an alternative source of supply for AEC, Bell, and certain other aircraft parts. Failure or significant delay by these vendors in providing necessary parts could, in the absence of alternative sources of supply, have a material adverse effect on us. · Disposition of aircraft – We are dependent upon the secondary used aircraft market to dispose of older models of aircraft as part of our ongoing fleet rejuvenation efforts. In the past two years, the demand for used aircraft has diminished. If we are unable to dispose of our older aircraft, our aircraft carrying costs may increase above requirements for our current operations, or we may accept lower selling prices, resulting in losses on disposition or reduced gains. The types of aircraft targeted for disposition as part of our fleet rejuvenation usually have lower carrying costs than new aircraft. We have also been able to utilize some aircraft for spare parts to support the operation of our existing fleet, rather than seeking to sell the aircraft to a third party. 5 Table of Contents · Employee unionization - In September 2003, our pilots voted to be represented by a collective bargaining unit, and we signed a CBA on March 31, 2006. The agreement was effective January 1, 2006, through April 30, 2009. Negotiations on a new CBA commenced in the fourth quarter of 2008 and were referred for mediation during the second quarter of 2009. Under the Railway Labor Act, mediation decisions are non-binding on either party, and the duration of the process may vary depending upon the mediator assigned and the complexity of the issues negotiated. The CBA establishes procedures for training, addressing grievances, discipline and discharge, among other matters, and defines vacation, holiday, sick, health insurance, and other employee benefits. The CBA also establishes wage scales, including adjustments for geographic locations, covering each year of the agreement. There can be no assurance that the CBA will be renewed under terms resembling those of the current agreement. Union personnel have also actively attempted to organize other employee groups in the past and these groups may elect to be represented by unions in the future. · Competition – Our HBS division faces significant competition from several national and regional air medical transportation providers for contracts with hospitals and other healthcare institutions. As used aircraft become more readily available within the industry, pricing for contract renewals may become more competitive. In addition to the national and regional providers, our CBS division also faces competition from smaller regional carriers and alternative air ambulance providers such as sheriff departments. In some cases advanced life support and critical care transport ground ambulance providers may also be competing for the same transports. Air medical operators generally compete on the basis of price, safety record, accident prevention and training, and the medical capability of the aircraft. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully for new or renewing contra cts or CBS market share in the future. · Aviation industry hazards and insurance limitations – Hazards are inherent in the aviation industry and may result in loss of life and property, thereby exposing us to potentially substantial liability claims arising from the operation of aircraft. We may also be sued in connection with medical malpractice claims arising from events occurring during or relating to medical flights. Under most HBS operating agreements, our customers have agreed to indemnify us against liability arising from medical malpractice claims and to maintain insurance covering such liability, but there can be no assurance that a hospital will not challenge the indemnification rights or will have sufficient assets or insurance coverage for full indemnity. In CBS operations, our personnel perform medical procedures on transported patients, which may expose us to significant direct legal exposure to medical malpractice claims. We mainta in general liability aviation insurance, aviation product liability coverage, and medical malpractice insurance, and believe our level of coverage is customary in the industry and adequate to protect against claims. However, there can be no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover potential claims or that present levels of coverage will be available in the future at reasonable cost. A limited number of hull and liability insurance underwriters provide coverage for air medical operators. Insurance underwriters are required by various federal and state regulations to maintain minimum levels of reserves for known and expected claims. However, there can be no assurance that underwriters have established adequate reserves to fund existing and future claims. The number of air medical accidents, as well as the number of insured losses within other helicopter operations and the commercial airline industry, and the impact of general economic conditions on underwriters may result in increases in premiums above th e rate of inflation. In addition, loss of any aircraft as a result of accidents could cause adverse publicity and interruption of services to client hospitals, which could adversely affect our operating results and relationship with such hospitals. Approximately 58% of any increases in hull and liability insurance may be passed through to our HBS customers according to contract terms. 6 Table of Contents · Fuel costs – Fuel accounted for 2.5% of total operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2009. Both the cost and availability of fuel are influenced by many economic and political factors and events occurring in oil-producing countries throughout the world. The price per barrel of oil has fluctuated significantly over the past several years. We cannot predict the future cost and availability of fuel or the impact of disruptions in oil supplies or refinery production from natural disasters. The unavailability of adequate fuel supplies or higher fuel prices could have an adverse effect on our cost of operations and profitability. Generally, our HBS customers pay for all fuel consumed in medical flights. However, our ability to pass on increased fuel costs for CBS operations may be limited by economic and competitive conditions and by reimbursement rates established by Medicare, Medicaid, and insuranc e providers. In 2009 and 2008, we entered into financial derivative agreements to protect against increases in the cost of Gulf Coast jet fuel above $2.35 per gallon for wholesale purchases from January 1, 2009, through June 30, 2010, and above $2.71 per gallon from July 1, 2010, through December 31, 2010. · Employee recruitment and retention - An important aspect of our operations is the ability to hire and retain employees who have advanced aviation, nursing, and other technical skills. In addition, hospital contracts typically contain minimum certification requirements for pilots and mechanics. Although attrition rates have been reduced recently as a result of the economic downturn, employees who meet these standards are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource in the foreseeable future. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these employees, the ability to maintain and grow the business could be negatively impacted. A limited supply of qualified applicants may also contribute to wage increases which outpace the rate of inflation. · Restrictive debt covenants – Our senior credit facility contains restrictive financial and operating covenants, including restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness and to engage in various corporate transactions such as mergers, acquisitions, asset sales and the payment of cash dividends. These covenants may restrict future growth through the limitation on acquisitions and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business plan. Failure to comply with the covenants defined in the agreement or to maintain the required financial ratios could result in an event of default and accelerate payment of the principal balances due under the senior credit facility. Given factors beyond our control, such as interruptions in operations from unusual weather patterns or decreases in flight volume due to overall economic conditions not included in current projections, there can be no assurance t hat we will be able to remain in compliance with financial covenants in the future, or that, in the event of non-compliance, we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders, or that to obtain such waivers, we will not be required to pay lenders significant cash or equity compensation. · Governmental regulation – The air medical transportation services and products industry is subject to extensive regulation by governmental agencies, including the FAA, which imposes significant compliance costs on us. In addition, reimbursement rates for air ambulance services established by governmental programs such as Medicare directly affect CBS revenue and indirectly affect HBS revenue from customers. Changes in laws or regulations or in reimbursement rates could have a material adverse impact on our cost of operations or revenue from flight operations. Periodically the FAA issues airworthiness directives covering one or more models of aircraft. Although we believe that our aircraft are currently in compliance with all FAA-issued airworthiness directives, additional airworthiness directives likely will be issued in the future and may result in additional operating costs or make a particular model of a ircraft uneconomical to operate. The significant number of accidents experienced by the air medical services industry in 2008 led to increased scrutiny by regulatory and legislative bodies. During the first quarter of 2009, the FAA issued revised Operations Specifications which increased weather minima for VFR in uncontrolled airspace operations and enhanced route evaluations prior to flight. The changes did not have a significant adverse impact on our operations because we were already operating in accordance with the higher weather minima. The National Transportation Safety Board conducted hearings regarding industry safety in February 2009 and issued recommendations to the FAA for further rule-making. Future legislation or regulatory changes resulting from the hearings may mandate further changes to flight and duty time, minimum equipment requirements, training requirements, or other standards which may increase the cost of our operations. 7 Table of Contents · Internal controls – We are required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to include management and auditor reports on internal controls as part of our annual report. Management concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective at December 31, 2009, and our independent registered public accounting firm attested to that conclusion. There can be no assurance that material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting will not be discovered in the future or that we and our independent registered public accounting firm will be able to conclude that internal control over financial reporting is effective in the future. Although it is unclear what impact failure to comply fully with Section 404 or the discovery of a material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting would have on us, it may subject us to regulatory scrutiny and result in additional expenditu res to meet the requirements, a reduced ability to obtain financing, or a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy of our financial reports. · Debt and lease obligations – We are obligated under debt facilities providing for up to approximately $161.3 million of indebtedness, of which approximately $73.3 million was outstanding (net of $38.1 million of cash) at December 31, 2009, and operating lease obligations which total $386.6 million over the remaining terms of the leases. If we fail to meet our payment obligations or otherwise default under the agreements governing indebtedness or lease obligations, the lenders under those agreements will have the right to accelerate the indebtedness and exercise other rights and remedies against us. These rights and remedies include the rights to repossess and foreclose upon the assets that serve as collateral, initiate judicial foreclosure against us, petition a court to appoint a receiver for us, and initiate involuntary bankruptcy proceedings against us. If lenders exercise their rights and remedies, our assets may not be sufficient to repay outstanding indebtedness and lease obligations, and there may be no assets remaining after payment of indebtedness and lease obligations to provide a return on common stock. · Foreign ownership – Federal law requires that United States air carriers be citizens of the United States. For a corporation to qualify as a United States citizen, the president and at least two-thirds of the directors and other managing officers of the corporation must be United States citizens and at least 75% of the voting interest of the corporation must be owned or controlled by United States citizens. If we are unable to satisfy these requirements, operating authority from the Department of Transportation may be revoked. As of December 31, 2009, we are not aware of any foreign person who holds more than 5% of our outstanding Common Stock. Because we are unable to control the transfer of our stock, we are unable to assure that we can remain in compliance with these requirements in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 