Item 1A. Risk FactorsAn investment in our securities, including our common stock, involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the specific factors set forth below as well as the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. See “Forward Looking Statements”.Our financial performance is dependent on conditions in the healthcare industry and the broader economy. The results of our business are directly tied to the economic conditions in the healthcare industry and the broader economy as a whole. We will continue to monitor and manage the impact of the overall economic environment on the Company. Approximately 20% of our revenues are derived from the sale of capital products. The sales of such products are negatively impacted if hospitals and other healthcare providers are unable to secure the financing necessary to purchase these products or otherwise defer purchases. Our significant international operations subject us to foreign currency fluctuations and other risks associated with operating in foreign countries. 7A significant portion of our revenues are derived from foreign sales. Approximately 51% of our total 2014 consolidated net sales were to customers outside the United States. We have sales subsidiaries in a significant number of countries in Europe as well as Australia, Canada, China and Korea. In those countries in which we have a direct presence, our sales are denominated in the local currency and those sales denominated in local currency amounted to approximately 36% of our total net sales in 2014. The remaining 15% of sales to customers outside the United States was on an export basis and transacted in United States dollars.Because a significant portion of our operations consist of sales activities in foreign jurisdictions, our financial results may be affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in the markets in which we distribute products. While we have implemented a hedging strategy involving foreign currency forward contracts for 2015, our revenues and earnings are only partially protected from foreign currency translation if the United States dollar strengthens as compared with currencies such as the Euro. Further, as of the date of this Form 10-K, we have not entered into any foreign currency forward contracts beyond 2015. Our international presence exposes us to certain other inherent risks, including: •imposition of limitations on conversions of foreign currencies into dollars or remittance of dividends and other payments by international subsidiaries;•imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by international subsidiaries;•trade barriers;•political risks, including political instability;•reliance on third parties to distribute our products;•hyperinflation in certain foreign countries; and•imposition or increase of investment and other restrictions by foreign governments.We cannot assure you that such risks will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Our financial performance is subject to the risks inherent in our acquisition strategy, including the effects of increased borrowing and integration of newly acquired businesses or product lines. A key element of our business strategy has been to expand through acquisitions and we may seek to pursue additional acquisitions in the future. Our success is dependent in part upon our ability to integrate acquired companies or product lines into our existing operations. We may not have sufficient management and other resources to accomplish the integration of our past and future acquisitions and implementing our acquisition strategy may strain our relationship with customers, suppliers, distributors, personnel or others. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and make acquisitions on acceptable terms or that we will be able to obtain financing for such acquisitions on acceptable terms. In addition, while we are generally entitled to customary indemnification from sellers of businesses for any difficulties that may have arisen prior to our acquisition of each business, acquisitions may involve exposure to unknown liabilities and the amount and time for claiming under these indemnification provisions is often limited. As a result, our financial performance is now, and will continue to be, subject to various risks associated with the acquisition of businesses, including the financial effects associated with any increased borrowing required to fund such acquisitions or with the integration of such businesses. Our financial performance may be adversely impacted by healthcare reform legislation.The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was enacted into law in the U.S. in March 2010. Effective January 1, 2013, as part of this legislation, a 2.3% excise tax has been imposed upon sales within the U.S. of certain medical device products. Other provisions of this legislation, including Medicare provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs, comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies, could meaningfully change the way health care is developed and delivered and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Further, we cannot predict what healthcare programs and regulations will be ultimately implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect of any future legislation or regulation in the U.S. or internationally. However, any changes that lower reimbursements to hospitals for surgical procedures or reduce medical procedure volumes could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements may result in recalls, fines or materially adverse implications. Substantially all of our products are classified as class II medical devices subject to regulation by numerous agencies and legislative bodies, including the FDA and comparable foreign counterparts. As a manufacturer of medical devices, our manufacturing processes and facilities are subject to on-site inspection and continuing review by the FDA for compliance with the Quality System Regulations. We received a warning letter from the FDA related to our Centennial, CO facility on January 30, 2014. Accordingly, we undertook corrective actions. During the fourth quarter of 2014, the FDA again inspected our Centennial, CO manufacturing facility and, on November 18, 2014, issued a Form 483 with eight observations, three of which the FDA characterized as repeat 8observations. On December 10, 2014, we responded to the Form 483 Observations. We believe our responses were complete, although the FDA has not yet provided any response or feedback in this regard. The remediation costs to date have not been material, although there can be no assurance that responding to the Form 483 observations or a future inspection by the FDA will not result in an additional Form 483 or warning letter, or other regulatory actions, which may include consent decrees or fines. Manufacturing and sales of our products outside the United States are also subject to foreign regulatory requirements which vary from country to country. Moreover, we are generally required to obtain regulatory clearance or approval prior to marketing a new product. The time required to obtain approvals from foreign countries may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA clearance, and requirements for foreign approvals may differ from FDA requirements. Failure to comply with applicable domestic and/or foreign regulatory requirements may result in:•fines or other enforcement actions;•recall or seizure of products;•total or partial suspension of production;•loss of certification;•withdrawal of existing product approvals or clearances;•refusal to approve or clear new applications or notices;•increased quality control costs; or•criminal prosecution.Failure to comply with Quality System Regulations and applicable foreign regulations could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are not able to manufacture products in compliance with regulatory standards, we may decide to cease manufacturing of those products and may be subject to product recall. In addition to the Quality System Regulations, many of our products are also subject to industry-defined standards. We may not be able to comply with these regulations and standards due to deficiencies in component parts or our manufacturing processes. If we are not able to comply with the Quality System Regulations or industry-defined standards, we may not be able to fill customer orders and we may decide to cease production of non-compliant products. Failure to produce products could affect our profit margins and could lead to loss of customers. Our products are subject to product recall and we have made product recalls in the past. Although no recall has had a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition, we cannot assure you that regulatory issues will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations in the future or that product recalls will not harm our reputation and our customer relationships. The highly competitive market for our products may create adverse pricing pressures. The market for our products is highly competitive and our customers have numerous alternatives of supply. Many of our competitors offer a range of products in areas other than those in which we compete, which may make such competitors more attractive to surgeons, hospitals, group purchasing organizations and others. In addition, many of our competitors are large, technically competent firms with substantial assets. Competitive pricing pressures or the introduction of new products by our competitors could have an adverse effect on our revenues. See “Products” for a further discussion of these competitive forces.Factors which may influence our customers’ choice of competitor products include: •changes in surgeon preferences;•increases or decreases in healthcare spending related to medical devices;•our inability to supply products to them as a result of product recall, market withdrawal or back-order;•the introduction by competitors of new products or new features to existing products;•the introduction by competitors of alternative surgical technology; and•advances in surgical procedures, discoveries or developments in the healthcare industry.We use a variety of raw materials in our businesses, and significant shortages or price increases could increase our operating costs and adversely impact the competitive positions of our products.Our reliance on certain suppliers and commodity markets to secure raw materials used in our products exposes us to volatility in the prices and availability of raw materials. In some instances, we participate in commodity markets that may be subject to allocations by suppliers. A disruption in deliveries from our suppliers, price increases or decreased availability of raw materials 9or commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. We believe that our supply management practices are based on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices. Nonetheless, price increases or the unavailability of some raw materials may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Cost reduction efforts in the healthcare industry could put pressures on our prices and margins. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs. Such efforts include national healthcare reform, trends towards managed care, cuts in Medicare, consolidation of healthcare distribution companies and collective purchasing arrangements by GPOs and IDNs. Demand and prices for our products may be adversely affected by such trends. We may not be able to keep pace with technological change or to successfully develop new products with wide market acceptance, which could cause us to lose business to competitors. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology. Our future financial performance will depend in part on our ability to develop and manufacture new products on a cost-effective basis, to introduce them to the market on a timely basis and to have them accepted by surgeons. We may not be able to keep pace with technology or to develop viable new products. Factors which may result in delays of new product introductions or cancellation of our plans to manufacture and market new products include: •capital constraints;•research and development delays;•delays in securing regulatory approvals; and•changes in the competitive landscape, including the emergence of alternative products or solutions which reduce or eliminate the markets for pending products.Our new products may fail to achieve expected levels of market acceptance. New product introductions may fail to achieve market acceptance. The degree of market acceptance for any of our products will depend upon a number of factors, including: •our ability to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements in the time frames we currently estimate;•our ability to successfully implement new technologies;•the market’s readiness to accept new products;•having adequate financial and technological resources for future product development and promotion;•the efficacy of our products; and•the prices of our products compared to the prices of our competitors’ products.If our new products do not achieve market acceptance, we may be unable to recover our investments and may lose business to competitors.In addition, some of the companies with which we now compete, or may compete in the future, have or may have more extensive research, marketing and manufacturing capabilities and significantly greater technical and personnel resources than we do, and may be better positioned to continue to improve their technology in order to compete in an evolving industry. See “Products” for a further discussion of these competitive forces.Our senior credit agreement contains covenants which may limit our flexibility or prevent us from taking actions.Our senior credit agreement contains, and future credit facilities are expected to contain, certain restrictive covenants which will affect, and in many respects significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to:•incur indebtedness;•make investments;•engage in transactions with affiliates;•pay dividends or make other distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock;•sell assets; and•pursue acquisitions.10These covenants, unless waived, may prevent us from pursuing acquisitions, significantly limit our operating and financial flexibility and limit our ability to respond to changes in our business or competitive activities. Our ability to comply with such provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. In the event of any default under our credit agreement, the credit agreement lenders may elect to declare all amounts borrowed under our credit agreement, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable. If we were unable to repay such borrowings, the credit agreement lenders could proceed against collateral securing the credit agreement which consists of substantially all of our property and assets. Our credit agreement also contains a material adverse effect clause which may limit our ability to access additional funding under our credit agreement should a material adverse change in our business occur.Our leverage and debt service requirements may require us to adopt alternative business strategies.As of December 31, 2014, we had $241.4 million of debt outstanding, representing 23% of total capitalization. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources”.The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences to investors, including but not limited to the following:•a portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to debt service and will not be available for operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends and other purposes;•our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be limited or impaired or may be at higher interest rates;•we may be at a competitive disadvantage when compared to competitors that are less leveraged;•we may be hindered in our ability to adjust rapidly to market conditions;•our degree of leverage could make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or other adverse circumstances applicable to us; and•our interest expense could increase if interest rates in general increase because a portion of our borrowings, including our borrowings under our credit agreement, are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness, which could require us to reduce our expenditures, sell assets, restructure our indebtedness or seek additional equity capital. Our ability to satisfy our obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may not have sufficient cash flow available to enable us to meet our obligations. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include actions such as foregoing acquisitions, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness or seeking additional equity capital. We cannot assure you that any of these strategies could be implemented on terms acceptable to us, if at all. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of our indebtedness and its implications.We rely on a third party to obtain, process and distribute sports medicine allograft tissue. If such tissue cannot be obtained, is not accepted by the market or is not accepted under numerous government regulations, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. As described in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, on January 3, 2012, we entered into an agreement with Musculoskeletal Transplant Foundation ("MTF") to obtain MTF's worldwide promotional, marketing and distribution rights with respect to allograft tissues within the field of sports medicine. The supply of human tissue is dependent on donors and MTF has numerous relationships with donor groups. Likewise, the supply of tissues available for use as allografts depends on the continued successful processing of donated tissues by MTF at its processing facilities. We cannot be certain, however, that the supply of human tissue will continue to be available at current levels or will be of sufficiently high standards to meet the high processing standards maintained for such tissues by MTF, or in volumes sufficient to meet our customers' needs or that MTF will be able to continue to process tissues to its high standards in volumes sufficient to keep pace with demand. We expect that the Company's share of revenue streams related to MTF's sports medicine allograft product line would decline in proportion to any decline or disruption in the supply of processed tissues.The FDA and several states have statutory authority to regulate allograft processing and allograft-based materials. The FDA could identify deficiencies in future inspections of MTF or MTF's suppliers or promulgate future regulatory rulings that could disrupt our business, reducing profitability. Our recent management and organizational changes could adversely affect our business.11 During 2014, Eugene Corasanti, formerly our Chairman, Joseph Corasanti, formerly our President & Chief Executive Officer, William Abraham, formerly our Executive Vice President - Business Development, and Joseph Darling, formerly our Executive Vice President, Commercial Operations, left the Company, and Robert Shallish, our Chief Financial Officer, announced his retirement from the Company effective March 31, 2015. Our current senior management team, including Curt Hartman, our President & Chief Executive Officer, Luke Pomilio, who will be our Chief Financial Officer effective April 1, 2015, and Pat Beyer, our new President International, have significant industry experience, and they have implemented organizational changes within our company. The experience of our senior executives is a valuable asset to us and, although we believe that our current senior management team has the combination of company and industry experience to be successful, our recent management changes could adversely affect our business, including through any disruption that may be associated with the recent organizational changes. If the Company or our business partners are unable to adequately protect our information assets from cyber-based attacks or other security incidents, our operations could be disrupted. We are increasingly dependent on information technology, including the internet, for the storage, processing, and transmission of our electronic, business-related, information assets. We leverage our internal information technology infrastructures, and those of our business partners, to enable, sustain, and support our global business interests. In the event that the Company or our business partners are unable to prevent, detect, and remediate cyber-based attacks or other security incidents in a timely manner, our operations could be disrupted or we may incur financial or reputational losses arising from the theft, alteration, misuse, unauthorized disclosure, or destruction of our information assets. If we infringe third parties’ patents, or if we lose our patents or they are held to be invalid, we could become subject to liability and our competitive position could be harmed. Much of the technology used in the markets in which we compete is covered by patents. We have numerous U.S. patents and corresponding foreign patents on products expiring at various dates from 2015 through 2035 and have additional patent applications pending. See “Research and Development” and "Intellectual Property" for a further description of our patents. The loss of our patents could reduce the value of the related products and any related competitive advantage. Competitors may also be able to design around our patents and to compete effectively with our products. In addition, the cost of enforcing our patents against third parties and defending our products against patent infringement actions by others could be substantial. We cannot assure you that: •pending patent applications will result in issued patents;•patents issued to or licensed by us will not be challenged by competitors;•our patents will be found to be valid or sufficiently broad to protect our technology or provide us with a competitive advantage; or•we will be successful in defending against pending or future patent infringement claims asserted against our products.Ordering patterns of our customers may change resulting in reductions in sales. Our hospital and surgery center customers purchase our products in quantities sufficient to meet their anticipated demand. Likewise, our healthcare distributor customers purchase our products for ultimate resale to healthcare providers in quantities sufficient to meet the anticipated requirements of the distributors’ customers. Should inventories of our products owned by our hospital, surgery center and distributor customers grow to levels higher than their requirements, our customers may reduce the ordering of products from us. This could result in reduced sales during a financial accounting period. We can be sued for producing defective products and our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover the nature and amount of any product liability claims. The nature of our products as medical devices and today’s litigious environment should be regarded as potential risks which could significantly and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The insurance we maintain to protect against claims associated with the use of our products has deductibles and may not adequately cover the amount or nature of any claim asserted against us. We are also exposed to the risk that our insurers may become insolvent or that premiums may increase substantially. See “Legal Proceedings” for a further discussion of the risk of product liability actions and our insurance coverage. Damage to our physical properties as a result of windstorm, earthquake, fire or other natural or man-made disaster may cause a financial loss and a loss of customers. Although we maintain insurance coverage for physical damage to our property and the resultant losses that could occur during a business interruption, we are required to pay deductibles and our insurance coverage is limited to certain caps. For example, our 12deductible for windstorm damage to our Florida property amounts to 2% of any loss. Further, while insurance reimburses us for our lost gross earnings during a business interruption, if we are unable to supply our customers with our products for an extended period of time, there can be no assurance that we will regain the customers’ business once the product supply is returned to normal.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.