ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves a number of very significant risks. You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties in addition to other information in this report in evaluating our Company and its business before purchasing shares of our Company's common stock. Our business, operating results and financial condition could seriously be harmed due to any of the following risks. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our Company. Additional risks not presently known to us may also impair our business operations. You could lose all or part of your investment due to any of these risks. WE DEPEND HEAVILY UPON A LIMITED NUMBER OF SOURCES OF HUMAN TISSUE, AND ANY FAILURE TO OBTAIN TISSUE FROM THESE SOURCES IN A TIMELY MANNER WILL INTERFERE WITH OUR ABILITY TO PROCESS AND DISTRIBUTE ALLOGRAFTS. Our business is dependent on the availability of donated human cadavers tissue supplied by donor recovery groups. Donor recovery groups provide support to donor families, are regulated by the FDA, and are often affiliated with hospitals, universities or organ procurement groups. Our relationships with donor recovery groups, which are critical to our supply of tissue, can be affected by relationships they have with other organizations. Any negative impact of the regulatory and disease transmission issues facing the industry, as well as the negative publicity that these issues create, could have an impact on our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with recovery groups. If our current sources can no longer supply human cadaveric tissue or our requirements for human cadaveric tissue exceed their current capacity, we may not be able to locate other sources on a timely basis, or at all. Any significant interruption in the availability of human cadaveric tissue would likely cause us to slow down the processing and distribution of our human tissue products, which could adversely affect our ability to supply the needs of our customers and materially and adversely affect our results of operations and our relationships with our customers. AlloSource, our largest donor recovery group, supplied us with approximately 65% of our total human tissue for the year ended September 30, 2006. Our three largest recovery groups together supplied approximately 83% of our total tissue for the year ended September 30, 2006. If we were to lose any one of these sources of tissue, the unfavorable impact on our operating results would be material. 7 WE ARE HIGHLY DEPENDENT UPON INDEPENDENT DISTRIBUTORS TO GENERATE OUR REVENUES. We currently derive the majority of our revenues through our relationships with two companies, Zimmer Dental and Zimmer Spine. For the year ended September 30, 2006, we derived approximately 46% and 8% of our consolidated revenues from distribution by Zimmer Dental and Zimmer Spine, respectively. Zimmer provides nearly all of the instrumentation, surgeon training, distribution assistance and marketing materials for our line of dental and spinal allografts. If our relationship with Zimmer is terminated or reduced for any reason and we are unable to replace the relationship with other means of distribution, we would suffer a material decrease in revenues. WE FACE INTENSE COMPETITION FROM COMPANIES, ACADEMIC INSTITUTIONS, TISSUE BANKS, ORGAN PROCUREMENT ORGANIZATIONS AND TISSUE PROCESSORS WITH GREATER FINANCIAL RESOURCES AND LOWER COSTS WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR REVENUES AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The biotechnology field is highly competitive and is undergoing rapid and significant technological changes. Our success depends upon our ability to develop and commercialize effective products that meet medical needs as well as our ability to accurately predict future technology and market trends. Many of our competitors have much greater financial, technical, research, marketing, distribution, service and other resources that are significantly greater than ours. Moreover, our competitors may offer a broader array of tissue repair treatment products and technologies or may have greater name recognition than we do in the marketplace. Our competitors may develop or market technologies that are more effective or commercially attractive than ours, or that may render our technology uncompetitive, uneconomical or obsolete. For example, the successful development of a synthetic tissue product that permits remodeling of bones could result in a decline in the demand for allograft-based products and technologies and have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. IF THIRD PARTY PAYERS FAIL TO PROVIDE APPROPRIATE LEVELS OF REIMBURSEMENT FOR THE USE OF OUR IMPLANTS, OUR REVENUES WOULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry in the United States to fundamental change. Any new Federal or state legislation could result in significant changes in the availability, delivery, pricing or payment for healthcare services and products. While we cannot predict what form any new legislation will take, it is possible that any significant healthcare legislation, if adopted, could lower the amounts paid to us for our services, which would decrease our revenues. Our revenues depend largely on the reimbursement of patients' medical expenses by government healthcare programs and private health insurers. Governments and private insurers closely examine medical procedures incorporating new technologies to determine whether the procedures will be covered by payment, and if so, the level of payment which may apply. We cannot be sure that third party payers will continue to reimburse us or provide payment at levels which will be profitable to us. OUR ALLOGRAFT AND XENOGRAFT IMPLANTS AND TECHNOLOGIES COULD BECOME SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANTLY GREATER REGULATION BY THE FDA, WHICH COULD DISRUPT OUR BUSINESS. The FDA and several states have statutory authority to regulate allograft processing and allograft-based materials. The FDA could identify deficiencies in future inspections of our facilities or promulgate future regulatory rulings that could disrupt our business, hurting our profitability. FDA regulations of human cellular and tissue-based products, titled "Good Tissue Practices," went into full force as of May 2005. These regulations cover all stages of allograft processing, from procurement of tissue to distribution of final allografts. These regulations may increase regulatory scrutiny within our industry and lead to increased enforcement action which affects the conduct of our business. In addition, the effect of these regulations may have a significant effect upon recovery agencies which supply us with tissue and increase the cost of recovery activities. Any such increase would translate into increased costs to us, as we compensate the recovery agencies based on their cost of recovery. Other regulatory entities include state agencies with statutes covering tissue banking. Of particular relevance to our business are regulations issued by Florida, New York, California and Maryland. Most states do not currently have tissue banking regulations. However, recent incidents of allograft related infections in the industry may stimulate the development of regulation in other states. It is possible that others may make allegations against us or against donor recovery groups or tissue banks, including those with which we have a relationship, about non-compliance with applicable FDA regulations or other relevant statutes and regulations. Allegations like these could cause regulators or other authorities to take investigative or other action, or could cause negative publicity for our business and our industry. Some of our implants in development will contain tissue derived from animals, commonly referred to as xenografts. Xenograft implants are medical devices that are subject to pre-market approval or clearance by the FDA. We may not receive FDA approval or clearance to market new implants as we attempt to expand the quantity of xenograft implants available for distribution. 8 THE NATIONAL ORGAN TRANSPLANT ACT ("NOTA") COULD BE INTERPRETED IN A WAY THAT COULD REDUCE OUR REVENUES AND INCOME IN THE FUTURE. Some aspects of our business are subject to additional local, state, federal or international regulation. Changes in the laws or new interpretations of existing laws could negatively affect our business, revenues or prospects, and increase the costs associated with conducting our business. The procurement and transplantation of allograft tissue is subject to federal regulation under the National Organ Transplant Act, or NOTA, a criminal statute that prohibits the purchase and sale of human organs, including bone and other tissue. NOTA permits the payment of reasonable expenses associated with the transportation, processing, preservation, quality control and storage of human tissue, which are the types of services we perform. If in the future, NOTA were amended or interpreted in a way that made us unable to include some of these costs in the amounts we charge our customers, it could reduce our revenues and therefore hurt our business. It is possible that more restrictive interpretations or expansions of NOTA could be adopted in the future which could require us to change one or more aspects of our business, at a substantial cost, in order to continue to comply with this statute. OUR SUCCESS WILL DEPEND ON THE CONTINUED ACCEPTANCE OF OUR ALLOGRAFT AND XENOGRAFT IMPLANTS AND TECHNOLOGIES BY THE MEDICAL COMMUNITY. Market acceptance of our allograph and xenograph implants can be affected by factors such as competitive tissue repair options, lack of third party reimbursement and the training of surgeons in the use of our tissue transplants, and rapid technological changes such as synthetic hormone tissue substitutes. Market acceptance depends on our ability to demonstrate that our existing and new implants and technologies are an alternative to existing tissue repair treatment options. This will depend on surgeons' evaluations of the clinical safety, efficacy, ease of use, reliability and cost-effectiveness of these tissue repair options and technologies. WE OR OUR COMPETITORS MAY BE EXPOSED TO PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS WHICH COULD CAUSE US TO BE LIABLE FOR DAMAGES OR CAUSE INVESTORS TO THINK WE WILL BE LIABLE FOR SIMILAR CLAIMS IN THE FUTURE. The development of allografts and technologies for human tissue repair and treatment entails an inherent risk of product liability claims, and substantial product liability claims may be asserted against us. We are a party to a number of legal proceedings related to product liability. The implantation of donated cadaveric human tissue products creates the potential for transmissions of communicable disease. Although we comply with Federal and state regulations and guidelines intended to prevent communicable disease transmission, and our tissue suppliers are also required to comply with such regulations, there can be no assurances that: (i) our tissue suppliers will comply with such regulations intended to prevent communicable diseases transmissions; (ii) even if such compliance is achieved, that our products have not been or will not be associated with transmission of disease; or (iii) a patient otherwise infected with disease would not erroneously assert a claim that the use of our products resulted in disease transmission. We currently have $5 million of product liability insurance to cover claims. This amount of insurance may not be adequate for current claims if we are not successful in our defenses, and furthermore, we may not have adequate insurance coverage for any future claims that arise. Moreover, insurance covering our business may not always be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If our insurance proves to be inadequate to pay a damage award, we may not have sufficient funds to do so, which would harm our financial condition and liquidity. In addition, successful product liability claims made against one of our competitors could cause claims to be made against us or expose us to a perception that we are vulnerable to similar claims. In addition, claims against us, regardless of their merit or potential outcome, may also hurt our ability to obtain surgeon endorsement of our allografts or to expand our business. NEGATIVE PUBLICITY CONCERNING THE USE OF DONATED HUMAN TISSUE IN MEDICAL PROCEDURES COULD REDUCE THE DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND NEGATIVELY IMPACT THE SUPPLY OF AVAILABLE DONOR TISSUE. There has recently been negative publicity concerning the use and method of obtaining donated human tissue that is used in medical procedures. This type of negative publicity could reduce the demand for our products or negatively impact the willingness of families of potential donors to agree to donate tissue, or tissue banks to provide tissue to us. In such event, we might not be able to obtain adequate tissue to meet the needs of our customers. As a result, our relationships with our customers and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS ON THE SCOPE OF OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS AND NOT INFRINGING THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF OTHERS. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies is materially dependent upon the success of our patents and how effective we are in enforcing them and protecting our trade secrets. If we are not successful and steadfast, it is highly likely that our competitors will exploit our proprietary technologies and innovations and will compete more effectively against us. It is also highly likely that our competitors, who also have greater resources than we do, will challenge our intellectual property rights, and attempt to invalidate, circumvent or render unenforceable any of our patents or propriety rights that we currently own or are licensed to us. Because of the competitive nature of the biotechnology industry, there can be no assurances that we will not be required to litigate the enforcement of our patents and other intellectual rights. 9 Moreover, there can be no assurances that we will not have to defend our existing or proposed products or processes against third party claims of patent infringement and other intellectual property claims. However the litigation may arise, intellectual property litigation is always costly and ends up diverting our financial and management resources and damages our business. WE MAY NEED TO SECURE ADDITIONAL FINANCING TO FUND OUR LONG-TERM STRATEGIC PLAN. We expect to continue to make investments in our business to support our distribution efforts and future programs and initiatives, which may deplete our available cash balances. We believe that our available cash, cash equivalents, available lines of credit and anticipated future cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for the foreseeable future. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including but not limited to, the progress of our product development programs and the need for and associated costs relating to regulatory approval, if any, which may be needed to commercialize some of our products under development, or those commercialized products whose regulatory status may change. We may need to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity and/or debt financing in private placements or public offerings to provide funds to meet the needs of our long-term strategic plan. Additional funds may not be available, or if available, may not be available on favorable terms. Further equity financings, if obtained, may substantially dilute the interest of our pre-existing shareholders. Any additional debt financing may contain restrictive terms that limit our operating flexibility. As a result, any future financings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. As of September 30, 2006, there were no comment letters outstanding from the SEC. 