Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly-traded securities. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations will likely suffer. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Changes in the rates or methods of third-party reimbursements for diagnostic imaging services could result in reduced demand for our services or create downward pricing pressure, which would result in a decline in our revenues and harm to our financial position. We derive approximately 20% of our revenues from direct billings to patients and third-party payors such as Medicare, Medicaid or private health insurance companies, and changes in the rates or methods of reimbursement for the services we provide could have a significant negative impact on those revenues. Moreover, our healthcare provider clients on whom we depend for the majority of our revenues generally rely on reimbursement from third-party payors. If our clients receive decreased reimbursement, this could result in a reduced demand for our services or downward pricing pressures, which could have a material impact on our financial position. With respect to our retail business, for services for which we bill Medicare directly, we are paid under the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule, which is updated on an annual basis. Under the Medicare statutory formula, 22 payments under the Physician Fee Schedule would have decreased for the past several years if Congress failed to intervene. In the past, when the application of the statutory formula resulted in lower payment, Congress has passed interim legislation to prevent the reductions. For 2010, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) projected a rate reduction of 21.2% under the statutory formula and a number of legislative measures were passed to prevent this reduction. For the second half of 2010, the update factor was increased by 2.2%. For 2011, the Medicare and Medicaid Extenders Act of 2010 which was signed into law on December 15, 2010, froze the 2010 update through 2011. Because CMS was required to make its other changes to the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule (discussed below) budget neutral, CMS made a downward adjustment to what is known as the “conversion factor,” which translates values in dollar amounts. Whereas the conversion factor for the end of 2010 was $36.8729, it is $33.9764 for 2011. At this time, we do not believe the change will have a material impact on our business. If Congress fails to intervene to prevent the negative update factor in the future through either another temporary measure or a permanent revision to the statutory formula, however, the resulting decrease in payment will adversely impact our revenues and results of operations. For retail services furnished on or after July 1, 2010, CMS began implementing a 50% reduction in reimbursement for multiple images on contiguous body parts, as mandated by the recently enacted Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “PPACA”). This is a 25% increase from prior years. In its final Medicare Physician Fee Schedule rule for calendar year 2011, effective January 1, 2011, CMS is applying the same reduction to certain CT and CT angiography (“CTA”), MRI and MR angiography (“MRA”), and ultrasound services furnished to the same patient in the same session, regardless of the imaging modality, and not limited to contiguous body areas. CMS projects that the final rule reduces payment for 20% more services than the current multiple procedure payment reduction policy. CMS expects that the final rule primarily reduces payments for radiology services and to freestanding diagnostic imaging centers, such as our retail business. At this time, we do not believe that the multiple procedure payment reductions will have a material impact on our future retail revenues. Regulatory updates to the Physician Fee Schedule for calendar year 2010 include reduced payment rates for certain diagnostic services using equipment costing more than $1 million through revisions to usage assumptions from the previous 50% usage rate to a 90% usage rate. This utilization change, to be phased in over a four-year period, applies to MRI and CT scans, but not for radiation therapy and other therapeutic equipment. The PPACA superseded CMS’s assumed usage rate for such equipment and, beginning on January 1, 2011, the PPACA requires CMS to use a 75% utilization rate. For 2011, CMS also finalized its proposed rule to expand the list of services to which the higher equipment utilization rate assumption applies to include certain diagnostic CTA and MRA procedures using similar CT and MRI scanners that cost more than $1 million. At this time, we estimate that the new usage assumptions for MRI and CT scans under the PPACA, which became effective on January 1, 2011, will not have a material impact on our future retail revenues. Other regulatory changes to the 2010 Medicare Physician Fee Schedule involve revaluing certain components of the fee schedule payment rate, which impact radiology and other diagnostic tests, including the services we provide. Some of these changes are being transitioned over a four year period, with full implementation in 2013. For the 2010 transition payment, CMS estimated that the aggregate impact of its changes (which include the changes in the equipment utilization rate discussed above) results in a 1% reduction in radiation oncology, 5% reduction in radiology, 18% reduction in nuclear medicine and 12% reduction for all suppliers providing the technical component of diagnostic tests generally. To date these changes have not had a material impact on our retail revenues. Effective January 1, 2011, CMS made further adjustments to the fee schedule so that specialties that have a higher proportion of the payment rate attributable to operating expenses such as equipment and supplies, which include radiation oncology, will experience an increase in aggregate payments. In addition, as a result of adjustments to codes identified to be misvalued, radiation oncology specialties and suppliers providing the technical component of diagnostic tests are among the entities that will experience decreases in aggregate payment. Some of these changes will be transitioned, and CMS estimates that the impact for 2011 (which include the changes in the equipment utilization rate discussed above as well as the expanded multiple procedure payment reductions for certain imaging services) will be no reduction in radiation 23 oncology, 10% reduction in radiology, 4% reduction in nuclear medicine and 15% reduction for all suppliers providing the technical component of diagnostic tests generally. These estimated impacts are calculated prior to the application of the conversion factor discussed above. At this time, we do not believe that the regulatory changes will have a material impact on our future retail revenues. In addition to annual updates to the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule, as indicated above, CMS also publishes regulatory changes to the hospital outpatient prospective payment system (“HOPPS”) on an annual basis. These payments are the amounts received by our hospital clients for hospital outpatient services and summarized in the table below: 2008 Payment 2009 Payment 2010 Payment 2011 Payment Nonmyocardial PET and PET/CT scan $ 1,057 $ 1,037 $ 1,037 $ 1,042 Myocardial PET scan $ 1,400 $ 1,157 $ 1,433 $ 1,107 Stereotactic radiosurgery treatment delivery systems (depending on the level of service) $ 1,057 - $8,055 $ 952 - $7,642 $ 963 - $7,344 $ 977 - $7,661 The PET and PET/CT Medicare HOPPS rate reductions did not have a material negative effect on revenue and earnings in 2008, 2009 or 2010. At this time, however, we cannot predict the impact of future rate reductions on our future revenues or business. The 2011 HOPPS and Medicare Physician Fee Schedule rules also implemented a number of PPACA provisions, including the waiver of beneficiary cost-sharing for certain preventive services covered under Medicare, such as screening mammograms and colonoscopies. Effective January 1, 2011, Medicare beneficiaries are no longer required to satisfy their deductibles or pay a copayment amount for these services. CMS states that by eliminating these out-of-pocket costs, beneficiaries are encouraged to make full use of their Medicare preventive benefits. At this time, we cannot predict whether these changes will have a material impact on the demand for our services and/or our future revenues. Over the past few years, the growth rate of MRI industry wide scan volumes has slowed in part due to weak hospital volumes as reported by several investor-owned hospital companies, additional patient-related cost-sharing programs and an increasing trend of third-party payors intensifying their utilization management efforts, for example through benefit managers who require preauthorizations, to control the growth rate of imaging services generally. We expect that these trends will continue throughout the remainder of 2011. Another recent initiative to potentially reduce utilization of certain imaging services, authorized under MIPPA, is the Medicare Imaging Demonstration, which is a two-year demonstration project designed to collect data regarding physician use of advanced diagnostic imaging services. This information would be used to determine the appropriateness of services by developing medical specialty guidelines for advanced imaging procedures within three designated modalities (MRI, CT and nuclear medicine). On February 2, 2011, CMS announced that it selected five participants for the demonstration project, although a start date has not yet been established. In addition, we cannot predict the full extent of the PPACA on our business. The reform law substantially changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers. Although certain provisions may negatively impact payment rates for certain imaging services, the PPACA also extends coverage to approximately 32 million previously uninsured people which may result in an increase in the demand for our services. Further, we cannot predict at this time whether other legislative changes will be adopted, if any, or how these or future changes will affect the demand for our services. We may experience competition from other medical diagnostic and radiation oncology companies and equipment manufacturers and this competition could adversely affect our revenues and our business. The market for diagnostic imaging and radiation oncology services and systems is competitive. Our major diagnostic imaging competitors include RadNet, Inc., InSight Health Services Corp., Medquest, Inc., Shared 24 Medical Services, Kings Medical Company Inc. and DMS Health Group. Our major radiation oncology competitors include Radiation Therapy Services, Inc., Vantage Oncology, Inc., Oncare Medical Corp., and US Oncology, Inc. In addition to direct competition from other imaging and radiation oncology providers, we compete with independent imaging centers and referring physicians with diagnostic imaging systems in their own offices, as well as with original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, that aggressively sell or lease imaging systems to healthcare providers for full-time installation. In recent years we have seen an increase in activity by OEMs’ sale of systems directly to a certain number of our clients. Typically, OEMs target our higher scan volume clients. This increase in activity by OEMs has resulted in overcapacity of systems in the marketplace, especially related to medical groups adding imaging capacity within their practice settings. This has caused an increase in the number of our higher scan volume clients deciding not to renew their contracts. We replace these higher volume scan clients typically with lower volume clients. Our MRI revenues decreased during the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009 due to a decrease in demand. We believe that MRI revenues will continue to decline in future years. There are many competitors in the imaging sector we find ourselves competing with to gain business. If we are unable to successfully compete, our client base would decline and our business and financial condition would be harmed. Our revenues may fluctuate or be unpredictable and this may impact our financial results. The amount and timing of revenues that we may derive from our business will fluctuate based on: • variations in the rate at which clients renew their contracts; • the extent to which our mobile shared-service clients become full-time clients; • changes in the number of days of service we can offer with respect to a given system due to equipment malfunctions or the seasonal factors discussed below; and • the mix of wholesale and retail billing for our services. In addition, we experience seasonality in the sale of our services. First and fourth quarter revenues are typically lower than those from the second and third quarters. First quarter revenue is affected primarily by fewer calendar days and inclement weather, typically resulting in fewer patients being scanned or treated during the period. Fourth quarter revenues are affected by holiday and client and patient vacation schedules, resulting in fewer scans or treatments during the period. The variability in margins is higher than the variability in revenues due to the fixed nature of our costs. As a result, our revenues may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, and our quarterly results may be below market expectations. We also experience fluctuations in revenues generated due to acquisition activity and general economic conditions, including recession or economic slowdown. We may not be able to reduce our expenses, including our debt service obligations, quickly enough to respond to these declines in revenue, which would make our business difficult to operate and would harm our financial results. We may be unable to renew or maintain our client contracts, which would harm our business and financial results. Upon expiration of our clients’ contracts, we are subject to the risk that clients will cease using our imaging services and purchase or lease their own imaging systems or use our competitors’ imaging systems. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we experienced a modest rate of contract terminations partially due to stepped up marketing, sales and attractive financing alternatives being offered by original equipment manufacturers to our clients. A portion of our clients can execute early termination clauses and discontinue service prior to maturity. As a result, our MRI revenues for 2010 declined compared to 2009 levels due to a decrease in demand and we believe that MRI revenues from our shared-service operations will continue to decline in future periods. If these contracts are not renewed, it could result in a significant negative impact on our business. It is not always 25 possible to immediately obtain replacement clients, and historically many replacement clients have been smaller facilities which have a lower number of scans than lost clients. Managed care organizations may prevent healthcare providers from using our services which would cause us to lose current and prospective clients. Healthcare providers participating as providers under managed care plans may be required to refer diagnostic imaging tests to specific imaging service providers depending on the plan in which each covered patient is enrolled. These requirements currently inhibit healthcare providers from using our diagnostic imaging services in some cases. The proliferation of managed care may prevent an increasing number of healthcare providers from using our services in the future which would cause our revenues to decline. We may be unable to effectively maintain our imaging and radiation oncology systems or generate revenue when our systems are not working. Timely, effective service is essential to maintaining our reputation and high utilization rates on our imaging and radiation oncology systems. Repairs to one of our systems can take up to two weeks and result in a loss of revenue. Our warranties and maintenance contracts do not fully compensate us for loss of revenue when our systems are not working. The principal components of our operating costs include depreciation, salaries paid to technologists and other clinical staff, drivers, annual system maintenance costs, insurance and transportation costs. Because the majority of these expenses are fixed, a reduction in the number of scans or treatments performed due to out-of-service equipment will result in lower revenues and margins. Repairs of our equipment are performed for us by the equipment manufacturers. These manufacturers may not be able to perform repairs or supply needed parts in a timely manner. Thus, if we experience greater than anticipated system malfunctions or if we are unable to promptly obtain the service necessary to keep our systems functioning effectively, our revenues could decline and our ability to provide services would be harmed. Our ability to maximize the utilization of our diagnostic imaging equipment may be adversely impacted by harsh weather conditions, which may affect our ability to generate revenue. Harsh weather conditions can adversely impact our operations and financial condition. To the extent severe weather patterns affect the regions in which we operate, potential patients may find it difficult to travel to our centers and we may have difficulty moving our mobile systems along their scheduled routes. As a result, we would experience a decrease in scan volume during that period. Our equipment utilization, scan volume or revenues could be adversely affected by similar conditions in the future. Adverse changes in general domestic and worldwide economic conditions and instability and disruption of credit markets could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, or liquidity. We are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions, including recession or economic slowdown and disruption of credit markets. Recent global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions continuing into 2011. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread unemployment, recession, inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit and the United States housing market have contributed to increased market volatility and led to increased market uncertainty and instability in both United States and international capital and credit markets. These conditions, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence, increased tax rates and governmental budget deficits and debt levels have contributed to volatility of unprecedented levels. We believe our MRI and PET/CT scan volumes have been impacted during 2010 and will continue to be impacted in 2011 by high unemployment rates, the number of under-insured or uninsured patients and other conditions arising from the global economic conditions described above. At this time, it is unclear the extent of the impact this might have on our future revenues or business. 26 As a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers. Continued turbulence in the United States and international markets and economies may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers. If these market conditions continue, they may limit our ability, and the ability of our customers, to timely meet liquidity needs, resulting in adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. Several states are experiencing a budget crisis which has resulted in significant state government cutbacks. These budget crises, if not successfully resolved, could have an impact on our revenue. To the extent state Medicaid program are unable to provide payments on a timely basis, or at all, our revenues, financial condition and results of operations will not be materially impacted. We may not receive payment from some of our healthcare provider customers because of their financial circumstances. Some of our healthcare provider customers do not have significant financial resources, liquidity or access to capital. If these customers experience financial difficulties they may be unable to pay us for the equipment and services that we provide. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, write-offs of accounts receivables from healthcare provider customers that become insolvent, file for bankruptcy or are otherwise unable to pay amounts owed to us. A significant deterioration in general or local economic conditions could have a material adverse affect on the financial health of certain of our healthcare provider customers. As a result, we may have to increase the amounts of accounts receivables that we write-off, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Natural disasters could adversely affect our business and operations. Our corporate headquarters is located in California and we currently operate in various geographic regions across 46 states, subject to varying risks for natural disaster, including but not limited to, hurricanes, blizzards, floods, earthquakes and tornados. Depending upon their severity, these natural disasters could damage our facilities and systems or prevent potential patients from traveling to our centers. Damage to our equipment or any interruption in our business would adversely affect our financial condition and could result in the loss of the capital invested in the damaged facilities or systems or anticipated future cash flows from those facilities or imaging systems. Technological change in our industry could reduce the demand for our services and require us to incur significant costs to upgrade our equipment. We operate in a competitive, capital intensive and high fixed-cost industry. The development of new technologies or refinements of existing ones might make our existing systems technologically or economically obsolete, or reduce the need for our systems. MRI, PET and PET/CT, radiation oncology and other diagnostic imaging systems are currently manufactured by numerous companies. Competition among manufacturers for a greater share of the MRI, PET and PET/CT and other diagnostic imaging systems market has resulted in and likely will continue to result in technological advances in the speed and imaging capacity of these new systems. Consequently, the obsolescence of our systems may be accelerated. Should new technological advances occur, we may not be able to acquire the new or improved systems. In the future, to the extent we are unable to generate sufficient cash from our operations or obtain additional funds through bank financing or the issuance of equity or debt securities, we may be unable to maintain a competitive equipment base. In addition, advancing technology may enable hospitals, physicians or other diagnostic service providers to perform procedures without the assistance of diagnostic service providers such as ourselves. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our competitive position in our targeted regions or expand our business. 27 High fuel costs would harm our operations. Fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our mobile operating expenses, through diesel fuel for our tractor fleet and mileage reimbursement for our technologists. Historically, fuel costs have been subject to wide price fluctuations based on geopolitical issues and supply and demand. Fuel availability is also affected by demand for home heating oil, diesel, gasoline and other petroleum products, as well as overall economic conditions. Because of the effect of these events on the price and availability of fuel, the cost and future availability of fuel cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty. In the event of a fuel supply shortage or further increases in fuel prices, a curtailment of scheduled mobile service could result. There have been significant increases in fuel costs and continued high fuel costs or further increases will harm our financial condition and results of operations. Because a high percentage of our operating expenses are fixed, a relatively small decrease in revenues could have a significant negative impact on our financial results. A high percentage of our expenses are fixed, meaning they do not vary significantly with the increase or decrease in revenues. Such expenses include, but are not limited to, debt service and capital lease payments, rent and operating lease payments, salaries, maintenance, insurance and vehicle operation costs. As a result, a relatively small reduction in the prices we charge for our services or procedure volume could have a disproportionate negative effect on our financial results. We may be subject to professional liability risks, which could be costly and could negatively impact our business and financial results. We may be subject to professional liability claims. Although there currently are no known hazards associated with any of our scanning or therapy delivery technologies directly related to the physical equipment when used properly, hazards may be discovered in the future. Furthermore, there is a risk of harm to a patient during an MRI if the patient has certain types of metal implants or cardiac pacemakers within his or her body. Although patients are screened to safeguard against this risk, screening may nevertheless fail to identify the hazard. There also is potential risk to patients treated with therapy equipment secondary to inadvertent or excessive over or under exposure to radiation—a topic on which the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health held a hearing on February 26, 2010. We maintain professional liability insurance with coverage that we believe is consistent with industry practice and appropriate in light of the risks attendant to our business. However, any claim made against us could be costly to defend against, result in a substantial damage award against us and divert the attention of our management from our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Loss of key executives and failure to attract qualified managers and sales persons could limit our growth and negatively impact our operations. We depend upon our management team to a substantial extent. In particular, we depend upon Mr. Viviano, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors for his skills, experience and knowledge of our Company and industry contacts. We do not have key employee insurance policies covering any of our management team. The loss of Mr. Viviano or other members of our management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We require field managers and sales persons with experience in our industry to operate and sell our services for diagnostic imaging and radiation oncology. It is impossible to predict the availability of qualified field managers and sales persons or the compensation levels that will be required to hire them. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management or our inability to hire qualified field managers and sales persons at economically reasonable compensation levels could adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business. Many of the states in which we operate do not enforce agreements that prohibit a former employee from competing with a former employer. As a result, many of our employees whose employment is terminated are free 28 to compete with us, subject to prohibitions on the use of confidential information and, depending on the terms of the employee’s employment agreement, on solicitation of existing employees and customers. A former executive, field or sales manager or other key employee who joins one of our competitors could use the relationships he or she established while our employee and the industry knowledge he or she acquired during that tenure to enhance the new employer’s ability to compete with us. Loss of, and failure to attract, qualified employees, technologists and other clinical staff could limit our growth and negatively impact our operations. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in our industry for qualified employees is intense. In particular, there is a very high demand for qualified technologists who are necessary to operate our systems, particularly PET and PET/CT technologists. We may not be able to hire and retain a sufficient number of technologists, therapists, physicists and dosimetrists and we expect that our costs for the salaries and benefits of these employees will continue to increase for the foreseeable future because of the industry’s competitive demand for their services. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. Our positron emission tomography and positron emission tomography/computed tomography, or PET and PET/CT services, and some of our other imaging services require the use of radioactive materials, which could subject us to regulation- related costs and delays and potential liabilities for injuries or violations of environmental, health and safety laws. Our PET and PET/CT services and some of our other imaging services require radioactive materials. While this radioactive material has a short half-life, meaning it quickly breaks down into inert, or non-radioactive substances, storage, use and disposal of these materials present the risk of accidental environmental contamination and physical injury. We are subject to federal, state and local regulations governing storage, handling and disposal of these materials and waste products. In spite of our safety procedures for storing, handling and disposing of these hazardous materials, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from those hazardous materials. We maintain professional liability insurance with coverage that we believe is consistent with industry practice and appropriate in light of the risks attendant to our business. However, in the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the coverage of our insurance. We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, or at all. We could incur significant costs and the diversion of our management’s attention in order to comply with current or future environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We may not be able to achieve the expected benefits from future acquisitions, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results. We have historically relied on acquisitions as a method of expanding our business. In addition, we will consider future acquisitions as opportunities arise. If we do not successfully integrate acquisitions, we may not realize anticipated operating advantages and cost savings. The integration of companies that have previously operated separately involves a number of risks, including: • demands on management related to the increase in our size after an acquisition; • the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations; • difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees; • potential adverse effects on operating results; and • challenges in retaining clients. 29 We may not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency acquired companies have achieved or might achieve separately. Successful integration of each of their operations will depend upon our ability to manage those operations and to eliminate redundant and excess costs. Because of difficulties in combining operations, we may not be able to achieve the cost savings and other size-related benefits that we hoped to achieve after these acquisitions, which would harm our financial condition and operating results. Funds managed by Oaktree Capital Management, LLC and MTS Health Investors, LLC beneficially own the majority of our outstanding shares of common stock and are therefore able to exert significant influence over us, including with respect to change of control transactions. As of December 31, 2010, funds managed by Oaktree Capital Management, LLC and MTS Health Investors, LLC (collectively the “Oaktree Parties”) beneficially owned approximately 51.3% of our outstanding shares of common stock. So long as they beneficially own at least 35% of our outstanding shares of common stock, the Oaktree Parties will have the right to designate three of the members of our board of directors. In addition, as of April 2010, the provisions of a standstill agreement we entered into with the Oaktree Parties limiting their ability to acquire more than 49.9% of our outstanding common stock terminated. As a result of their ownership of our common stock and their other arrangements described above, the Oaktree Parties have the ability to exert significant influence on our management and operations, as well as control the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including approving mergers, consolidations or sales of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and advisory votes, including advisory votes related to our executive pay practices and appointment of independent registered auditors. This concentration of ownership and voting power may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger, consolidation, sale of assets or other similar transaction that involves a third party. Because of the equity ownership of the Oaktree Parties, we are considered a “controlled company” for purposes of the NYSE listing requirements. As such, we are exempt from the requirement that the majority of our board of directors meet the standards of independence established by the NYSE and we are exempt from the requirement that we have separate Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees comprised entirely of directors who meet such independence standards. Although we do not currently intend to rely upon the exemption available for controlled companies, we may choose to utilize the exemption at any time that we remain a controlled company. The NYSE independence standards are intended to ensure that directors who meet the independence standards are free of any conflicting interest with management that could influence their actions as directors. It is possible that the interests of the Oaktree Parties may in some circumstances conflict with our interests or the interests of our other stockholders. Possible volatility in our stock price could negatively affect us and our stockholders. The trading price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange has fluctuated significantly in the past. During the period from January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2010, the trading price of our common stock fluctuated from a high of $12.03 per share to a low of $3.32 per share. In the past, we have experienced a drop in stock price following an announcement of disappointing earnings or earnings guidance. Any such announcement in the future could lead to a similar drop in stock price. The price of our common stock could also be subject to wide fluctuations in the future as a result of a number of other factors, including the following: • changes in expectations as to future financial performance or buy/sell recommendations of securities analysts; • our, or a competitor’s, announcement of new products or services, or significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; and • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies. 30 In addition, the U.S. securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of companies in these markets. Broad market and industry factors may lead to volatility in the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Moreover, our stock has limited trading volume, and this illiquidity may increase the volatility of our stock price. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of an individual company’s securities, securities class action litigation often has been instituted against that company. The institution of similar litigation against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our organizational documents may discourage an acquisition of us. In the future, we could become the subject of an unsolicited attempted takeover of our Company. Although an unsolicited takeover could be in the best interests of our stockholders, our organizational documents and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware both contain provisions that will impede the removal of directors and may discourage a third-party from making a proposal to acquire us. For example, the provisions: • permit the board of directors to increase its own size and fill the resulting vacancies; • provide for a board composed of three classes of directors with each class serving a staggered three-year term; • authorize the issuance of additional shares of preferred stock in one or more series without a stockholder vote; and • establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to the board of directors. Moreover, these provisions can only be amended by the vote of 66 2/3% or more of our outstanding shares entitled to vote. Furthermore, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Risks Related to Government Regulation of Our Business Complying with federal and state regulations is an expensive and time-consuming process, and any failure to comply could result in substantial penalties. We are directly or indirectly through our clients subject to extensive regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business, including the federal Anti-Kickback Law and similar state anti-kickback laws, the Stark Law and similar state laws affecting physician referrals, the federal False Claims Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, and similar state laws addressing privacy and security, state unlawful practice of medicine and fee splitting laws, state certificate of need laws, the Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, and requirements for handling biohazardous and radioactive materials and wastes. Both federal and state government agencies have heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of health care companies, as well as their executives and managers. These investigations relate to a wide variety of matters, including referral and billing practices. The Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (“DHHS”) and the Department 31 of Justice (“DOJ”) have, from time to time, established national enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. Some of our activities could become the subject of governmental investigations or inquiries. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws and regulations to which we or our clients are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines or curtailment of our operations, individually or in the aggregate, could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Our risk of being found in violation of these laws and regulations is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert management’s attention from the operation of our business. For a more detailed discussion of the various state and federal regulations to which we are subject see “Business—Regulation,” “Business—Reimbursement” and “Business—Environmental, Health and Safety Laws.” Federal and state anti-kickback and anti-self-referral laws may adversely affect our operations and income. Various federal and state laws govern financial arrangements among health care providers. The federal Anti-Kickback Law prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral of Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare program patients, or in return for, or to induce, the purchase, lease or order of items or services that are covered by Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs. Many state laws also prohibit the solicitation, payment or receipt of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral of patients in private as well as government programs. Violation of these laws may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties and/or exclusion from participation in federal or state healthcare programs. We believe that we are operating in compliance with applicable laws and believe that our arrangements with providers would not be found to violate the federal and state anti-kickback laws. However, these laws could be interpreted in a manner that could have an adverse effect on our operations. The Stark Law prohibits a physician from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to any entity for certain designated health services (including MRI and other diagnostic imaging services) if the physician has a prohibited financial relationship with that entity, unless an exception applies. Although we believe that our operations do not violate the Stark Law, our activities may be challenged. If a challenge to our activities is successful, it could have an adverse effect on our operations. In addition, legislation may be enacted in the future that further addresses Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse or that imposes additional requirements or burdens on us. A number of states in which our diagnostic imaging centers are located have adopted a form of anti-kickback law and/or Stark Law. The scope of these laws and the interpretations of them vary from state to state and are enforced by state courts and regulatory authorities, each with broad discretion. A determination of liability under the laws described in this risk factor could result in fines and penalties and restrictions on our ability to operate in these jurisdictions. In addition, under the DRA, states are encouraged to adopt false claims acts, similar to the federal False Claims Act, which establish liability for submission of fraudulent claims to the State Medicaid program and contain qui tam or whistleblower provisions. States enacting such false claims statutes will receive an increased percentage of any recovery from a State Medicaid judgment or settlement. Adoption of new false claims statutes in states where we operate may impose additional requirements or burdens on us. 32 Healthcare reform legislation and regulations could impact our operations or limit the prices we can charge for our services, which would reduce our revenues and harm our operating results. In addition to extensive existing government healthcare regulation, there have been and continue to be numerous initiatives at the federal and state levels for reforms affecting the payment for and availability of healthcare services, including proposals that would significantly limit reimbursement under the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Limitations on reimbursement amounts and other cost containment pressures have in the past resulted in a decrease in the revenue we receive for each scan we perform. Regulations published in November 2006 by CMS identify 14 supplier standards applicable to independent diagnostic testing facilities, or IDTFs, which include some of our facilities. CMS designed these standards to ensure that minimum quality standards are met to protect Medicare beneficiaries. If an IDTF fails to meet one or more of the standards at the time of enrollment or re-enrollment, then its application will be denied or the agency will revoke an IDTF’s billing privileges. These standards went into effect on January 1, 2007, and IDTFs must meet these standards to obtain or retain enrollment in the Medicare program. CMS published additional regulatory provisions in November 2007 and November 2008 that revised the existing IDTF standards and also created several additional standards. These changes went into effect on January 1, 2008 and January 1, 2009, respectively. To the extent that CMS publishes interpretations of these standards that are more restrictive than the standards described in the agency’s published rules, our business could be adversely impacted. These standards have not had a material impact on our business. The application or repeal of state certificate of need regulations could harm our business and financial results. Some states require a certificate of need or similar regulatory approval prior to the acquisition of high-cost capital items, including diagnostic imaging systems or provision of diagnostic imaging services by us or our clients. Twenty-one of the 46 states in which we operate require a certificate of need and more states may adopt similar licensure frameworks in the future. In many cases, a limited number of these certificates are available in a given state. If we are unable to obtain the applicable certificate or approval or additional certificates or approvals necessary to expand our operations, these regulations may limit or preclude our operations in the relevant jurisdictions. Conversely, states in which we have obtained a certificate of need may repeal existing certificate of need regulations or liberalize exemptions from the regulations. For example, Pennsylvania, Nebraska, New York, Ohio and Tennessee have liberalized exemptions from certificate of need programs. The repeal of certificate of need regulations in states in which we have obtained a certificate of need or a certificate of need exemption would lower barriers to entry for competition in those states and could adversely affect our business. If we fail to comply with various licensure, certification and accreditation standards, we may be subject to loss of licensure, certification or accreditation which would adversely affect our operations. All of the states in which we operate require that the imaging technologists that operate our computed tomography, single photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography systems be licensed or certified. Also, each of our retail sites must continue to meet various requirements in order to receive payments from the Medicare program. In addition, we are currently accredited by The Joint Commission, an independent, non-profit organization that accredits various types of healthcare providers such as hospitals, nursing homes and providers of diagnostic imaging services. In the healthcare industry, various types of organizations are accredited to meet certain Medicare certification requirements, expedite third-party payments and fulfill state licensure requirements. Some managed care providers prefer to contract with accredited organizations. Any lapse in our licenses, certifications or accreditations, or those of our technologists, or the failure of any of our retail sites to satisfy the necessary requirements under Medicare could adversely affect our operations and financial results. 33 Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could restrict our operations and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2010, we had $653.3 million of outstanding debt, excluding letters of credit, and approximately $115.3 million was available for borrowing under our New Revolving Credit Facility. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences for our stockholders. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions and for other general corporate purposes; • increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and competitive pressures in our industry; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt in relation to cash flow; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all. If there is a default under the agreements governing our material indebtedness, the value of our assets may not be sufficient to repay our creditors. Our property and equipment, which make up a significant portion of our tangible assets, had a net book value of $311.7 million as of December 31, 2010 and $340.1 million as of December 31, 2009. The book value of these assets should not be relied on as a measure of realizable value for such assets. The realizable value may be lower than such net book value. The value of our assets in the event of liquidation will depend upon market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and similar factors. A sale of these assets in a bankruptcy or similar proceeding would likely be made under duress, which would reduce the amounts that could be recovered. Furthermore, such a sale could occur when other companies in our industry also are distressed, which might increase the supply of similar assets and therefore reduce the amounts that could be recovered. Our goodwill and other intangible assets had a net book value of $287.7 million as of December 31, 2010 and $294.4 million as of December 31, 2009. These assets primarily consist of the excess of the acquisition cost over the fair market value of the net assets acquired in purchase transactions, customer contracts and costs to obtain certificates of need. The value of goodwill and other intangible assets will continue to depend significantly upon the success of our business as a going concern and the growth in future cash flows. As a result, in the event of a default under the agreements governing our material indebtedness or any bankruptcy or dissolution of our Company, the realizable value of these assets will likely be substantially lower and may be insufficient to satisfy the claims of our creditors. The financial condition of our assets will likely deteriorate during any period of financial distress preceding a sale of our assets. In addition, much of our assets consist of illiquid assets that may have to be sold at a substantial discount in an insolvency situation. Accordingly, the proceeds of any such sale of our assets may not be sufficient to satisfy, and may be substantially less than, amounts due to our creditors. Despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more indebtedness, which could increase the risks described above. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the New Credit Facility and the indenture governing the notes permit us or our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, subject to certain restrictions. Further, the New Credit Facility and the indenture governing the notes allow for the incurrence of indebtedness by our subsidiaries, all of which would be structurally senior to the 34 notes. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, our New Credit Facility permitted additional borrowings of up to approximately $115.3 million under the New Revolving Credit Facility subject to the covenants contained in the New Credit Facility, and all of those borrowings would be senior to the notes to the extent of the assets securing the New Credit Facility. If new debt is added to our or our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the risks discussed above could intensify. If we are unable to generate or borrow sufficient cash to make payments on our indebtedness or to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, our financial condition would be materially harmed, our business may fail and you may lose all of your investment. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our obligations with respect to our debt will depend on our financial and operating performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, business and other factors beyond our control. As a result of the recent global market and economic conditions, the cost and availability of credit and equity capital have been severely impacted. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or fund our other liquidity needs, we may need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity or sell certain of our assets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to restructure or refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, which could cause us to default on our debt obligations and impair our liquidity. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. We may not be able to finance future needs or adapt our business plan to changes because of restrictions placed on us by our credit facility, our notes, the indentures governing our notes and instruments governing our other indebtedness. The indenture governing the notes and our New Credit Facility contain affirmative and negative covenants which restrict, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional debt; • sell assets; • create liens or other encumbrances; • make certain payments and dividends; or • merge or consolidate. All of these restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. A failure to comply with these covenants and restrictions would permit the relevant creditors to declare all amounts borrowed under the relevant borrowing, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable. If the indebtedness under the credit facility or the notes is accelerated, we may not have sufficient assets to repay amounts due under the credit facility, the notes or on other indebtedness then outstanding. If we are not able to refinance our debt, we could become subject to bankruptcy proceedings, and you may lose all or a portion of your investment because the claims of certain of our creditors on our assets are prior to the claims of holders of the notes. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition. An increase in prevailing interest rates would have an effect on the interest rates charged on our variable rate debt, which rise and fall upon changes in interest rates. As of December 31, 2010, approximately $455.4 million of our debt was at variable interest rates, for which risks from rising interest rates are protected through interest rate cap agreements with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million as described below. 35 During the first quarter of 2009, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement which has a notional amount of $56.8 million, to hedge future cash interest payments associated with a portion of the our variable rate bank debt. Under the terms of this agreement, which matures in November 2011, we receive three-month LIBOR and pay a fixed rate of 2.07%. The net effect of the hedge is to record interest expense at a fixed rate of 4.57%, as the debt incurs interest based on three-month LIBOR plus 2.50%. In the first quarter of 2010, we entered into one interest rate swap agreement and three interest rate cap agreements in order to avoid unplanned volatility in the income statement due to changes in the LIBOR interest rate environment. The swap agreement, which matures in January 2011, has a notional amount of $92.7 million and synthetically unwinds the effects of a swap entered into in 2009. The interest rate cap agreements, which mature in February 2014, have a total notional amount of $150.0 million and were designated as cash flow hedges of future cash interest payments associated with a portion of our variable rate bank debt. Under these arrangements we have purchased a cap on LIBOR at 4.50%. Increases in interest rates would also impact the refinancing of our debt. If interest rates are higher when our debt becomes due, we may be forced to borrow at the higher rates. If prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates, the increased interest expense would adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our debt. As a protection against rising interest rates, we may enter into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate exchange contracts. These agreements, however, carry the risks that the other parties to the agreements may not perform or that the agreements could be unenforceable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 