ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FUTURE RESULTS, FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION AND CERTAIN IMPORTANT FACTORS In this Annual Report we make, and from time to time we otherwise make, written and oral statements regarding our business and prospects, such as projections of future performance, statements of management’s plans and objectives, forecasts of market trends, and other matters that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Statements containing the words or phrases “will likely result,” “are expected to,” “will continue,” “is anticipated,” “estimates,” “projects,” “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “target,” “goal,” “plans,” “objective,” “should” or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which may appear in documents, reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, written or oral presentations made by officers or other representatives made by us to analysts, stockholders, investors, news organizations and others, and discussions with management and other of our representatives. For such statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our future results, including results related to forward-looking statements, involve a number of risks and uncertainties. No assurance can be given that the results reflected in any forward-looking statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made. Our forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions that are sometimes based upon estimates, data, communications and other information from suppliers, government agencies and other sources that may be subject to revision. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update or keep current either (i) any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of such statement, or (ii) the important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or which are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. In addition to other matters identified or described by us from time to time in filings with the SEC, there are several important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or results that are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. Some of these important factors, but not necessarily all important factors, include the following: 11 Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Current economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers and others with which we do business to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our business, financial condition and results of operations have and may continue to be affected by various economic factors. The worldwide economy is undergoing a period of slowdown and the future economic environment may continue to be less favorable than that of recent years. This slowdown has, and could further lead to, reduced consumer and business spending in the foreseeable future, including by our customers. Reduced access to credit has and may continue to adversely affect the ability of consumers to purchase our products and system solutions. In addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, suppliers and other service providers. If such conditions continue or further deteriorate, our industry, business and results of operations may be severely impacted. We rely on a small number of significant customers. Our success depends substantially upon retaining our significant clients, such as China Unicom and China Mobile. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain long-term relationships or secure renewals of short-term relationships with our significant clients in the future. If we were to lose such customers, it is unclear if we would be able to replace them or how long it would take to do so. Accordingly, our revenues and profitability would be negatively impacted. We have not entered into any long term contracts with our customers. All of our agreements with our customers are for short term projects or sales of equipment. While we believe that our significant relationships with China Unicom and China Mobile will likely provide additional sales agreements in the future, none of our customers are contractually bound to purchase any products or services from us in the future. If our customers do not continue to purchase products or services from us in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend on a limited number of suppliers. We rely on certain suppliers to provide us various pieces of telecommunications equipment. If we were to lose our relationship with those suppliers, we may experience difficulties finding a suitable replacement for our equipment needs, and our business and operations could be adversely affected. We face intense competition. The market for access network solutions services is intensely competitive in the People’s Republic of China. There are numerous other access network service providers with which we compete for business. There are low barriers to entry for new competitors in our market and our business may experience a negative impact as a result of increased competition. In addition, our existing or potential competitors may in the future achieve greater market acceptance and gain additional market share, which in turn could reduce our revenues and operations. We depend on key personnel for the success of our business. Our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives and employees or fail to add new senior and middle managers to our management. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executives, particularly Han Daqing, our Chief Executive Officer and President, Li Hong, our Chief Financial Officer and Yong Shiqin, our Chief Operating Officer. Our future success is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified senior and middle managers to our management team. If one or more of our current or future key executives and employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them, and our business may be severely disrupted. In addition, if any of these key executives or employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we could lose customers and suppliers and incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us. 12 We also rely on a number of key technology staff for the operation of our Company. Given the competitive nature of our industry, the risk of key technology staff leaving our Company is high and could disrupt our operations. We rely on a third party production center. We utilize a third party production center for the manufacture of the products we sell to our customers. Although we are parties to a memorandum of cooperation regarding such manufacturing arrangement, we cannot be assured that such cooperation will continue indefinitely. Should we be required to utilize a different source for our manufactured products our costs could be adversely affected. Rapid growth and a rapidly changing operating environment may strain our limited resources. We will need to increase our investment in our technology infrastructure, facilities and other areas of operations, in particular our product development, in order to facilitate our growth. If we are unable to manage our growth and expansion effectively, the quality of our products and services, and in turn, our customer support, could deteriorate and our business and results of operations may suffer. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to: · continue to develop through our research and development facilities new technologies acceptable to the PRC market; · continue training, motivating and retaining our existing employees and attract and integrate new employees, including our senior management; · develop and improve our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls; and · maintain adequate controls and procedures to ensure that our periodic public disclosure under applicable laws, including U.S. securities laws, is complete and accurate. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, and we may be exposed to infringement claims by third parties. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright laws and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. Monitoring unauthorized use of our information services is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we take will effectively prevent misappropriation of our technology and content. Our management may determine in the future to register for copyrights, trademarks or trade secret protection if management determines that such protection would be beneficial and cost-effective. From time to time, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. In addition, parties may initiate litigation against us for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. In the event of a successful claim of infringement and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology, content or license the infringed or similar technology or content on a timely basis, our business could suffer. Moreover, even if we are able to license the infringed or similar technology or content, license fees that we pay to licensors could be substantial or uneconomical. 13 We have limited business insurance coverage. The insurance industry in the PRC is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in the PRC offer limited business insurance products, and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability insurance coverage for our operations. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Risks Related To Doing Business in China A downturn in the Chinese economy may slow down our growth and profitability. The growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors. There can be no assurance that growth of the Chinese economy will be steady or that any downturn will not have a negative effect on our business. Our profitability will decrease if expenditures for wireless services decrease due to a downturn in the Chinese economy. In addition, increased penetration of wireless services in the less economically developed central and western provinces of the PRC will depend on those provinces achieving certain income levels, so that mobile phones and related services become affordable to a significant portion of the population. Government regulation of the telecommunications industry may become more complex. Government regulation of the telecommunications industry is highly complex. New regulations could increase our costs of doing business and prevent us from efficiently delivering our services. These regulations may stop or slow down the expansion of our user base and limit the access to our services. Our ability to generate revenues could suffer if the Chinese market for access network solutions services does not develop as anticipated. The wireless services market in the PRC has evolved rapidly over the last four years, with the introduction of new services, development of consumer preferences, market entry by new competitors and adaptation of strategies by existing competitors. We expect each of these trends to continue, and we must continue to adapt our strategy to successfully compete in our market. In particular, we currently offer a wide range of access network solutions services for mobile phones using 2G technologies including GSM/CDMA/PHS/WLAN and are developing access network solutions for 3G mobile phones. There can be no assurance, however, that any of these 2G or 3G technologies and any services compatible with them will be accepted by consumers or promoted by the mobile operators. Accordingly, it is extremely difficult to accurately predict consumer acceptance and demand for various existing and potential new offerings and services, and the future size, composition and growth of this market. Our ability to compete on a nationwide scale may be impaired due to state-owned competitors. Although we believe our strongest competitors are other privately held Chinese companies, we face direct competition with telecommunications companies which are either state-owned or state-run. In certain circumstances, these state-owned competitors may receive preferential treatment, particularly in the awarding of governmental contracts. 14 The uncertain legal environment in China could limit the legal protections available to you. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which precedents set in earlier legal cases are not generally used. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has been to enhance the protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly and their interpretation and enforcement involves uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, such as the right of foreign invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as requisite business licenses. In addition, all of our executive officers and our directors are residents of China, and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the U.S. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to effect service of process in the U.S., or to enforce a judgment obtained in the U.S. against us or any of these persons. Changes in the PRC’s political and economic policies could harm our business. The economy of the PRC has historically been a planned economy subject to governmental plans and quotas and has, in certain aspects, been transitioning to a more market-oriented economy. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the PRC, we cannot predict the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. In addition, the Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the “OECD”). These differences include: · Economic structure; · Level of government involvement in the economy; · Level of development; · Level of capital reinvestment; · Control of foreign exchange; · Methods of allocating resources; and · Balance of payments position. As a result of these differences, our business may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Because almost all of our future revenues may be in the form of RMB, any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any future business activities outside the PRC or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily, the restriction that foreign invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies, after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of RMB for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in the PRC, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. 15 The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. China only recently has permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of these jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties. Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and as low as -2.2%. These factors have led to the adoption by Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. While inflation has been more moderate since 1995, high inflation may in the future cause Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. Cessation of the preferential rate of income tax may have an adverse impact on our net income. China passed a new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementing rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law (“EIT Law”) reduces the statutory rate of enterprise income tax from 33% to 25%, and permits companies established before March 16, 2007 to continue to enjoy their existing tax incentives, adjusted by certain transitional phase-out rules. Administrative regulations shall gradually become subject to the New EIT Law rate over a five-year transition period starting from the date of effectiveness of the New EIT Law. However, certain qualifying high-technology enterprises may still benefit from a preferential tax rate of 15% if they are enterprises in certain State-supported high-tech industries to be later specified by the government. As a result, if Telestone’s PRC subsidiaries qualify as “high-technology enterprises,” they will continue to benefit from the preferential tax rate of 15%, subject to transitional rules implemented from January 1, 2008. Otherwise, the applicable tax rate of its PRC subsidiaries may gradually increase to the unified tax rate of 25% by January 1, 2013 under the New EIT Law and the Implementing Rules. If its PRC subsidiaries cease to qualify as “high-technology enterprises”, Telestone’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. A new Chinese law may impact our ability to make acquisitions of Chinese businesses. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies namely, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (“SASAC”), the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (“CSRC”), and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”), jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors (the “New M&A Rule”), which became effective on September 8, 2006. The New M&A Rule purports, among other things, to require offshore special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, formed after the effective date, for overseas listing purposes, through acquisitions of PRC domestic companies and controlled by PRC companies or individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to publicly listing their securities on an overseas stock exchange. 16 The Company intends to make acquisitions of Chinese businesses in the future. There are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations, including the New M&A Rule and there uncertainties could make it difficult or impossible to make acquisitions of Chinese businesses in the future. The fluctuation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC’s political and economic conditions. Any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from this offering of our common stock into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common shares or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Renminbi we convert would be reduced. Any significant devaluation of Renminbi may reduce our operation costs in U.S. dollars but may also reduce our earnings in U.S. dollars. In addition, the depreciation of significant U.S. dollar denominated assets could result in a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the value of these assets. Since 1994 the PRC has pegged the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. We do not believe that this policy has had a material effect on our business. There can be no assurance that Renminbi will not be subject to devaluation. We may not be able to hedge effectively against Renminbi devaluation, so there can be no assurance that future movements in the exchange rate of Renminbi and other currencies will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient foreign exchange to pay dividends or satisfy other foreign exchange requirements in the future. Any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, (“SARS”), or another widespread public health problem, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. A renewed outbreak of SARS or another widespread public health problem in the PRC, where all of our revenue is derived, and in Beijing where our operations are headquartered, could have a negative effect on our operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including the following: · Quarantines or closures of some of our offices which would severely disrupt our operations; · The sickness or death of our key officers and employees; and · A general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited. All of our subsidiaries are incorporated in non-U.S. jurisdictions, we conduct substantially all of our operations in China, and all of our officers reside outside the United States. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our wholly owned subsidiaries in China. All of our officers reside outside the United States and some or all of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in China in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the PRC may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. As a result of all of the above, our public stockholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major stockholders than would stockholders of a corporation doing business entirely within the United States. 17 Risks Related To Our Shares The market price for our common stock is volatile. The market price for our common stock is highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: · Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · Announcements of new products and services by us or our competitors; · Changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · Changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies providing similar products and services; · Announcements by our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · Additions or departures of key personnel; · Potential litigation; · Conditions in the mobile phone market; or · Weak liquidity. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The value of our securities will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs and should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in the PRC would be reduced. Stockholders could experience substantial dilution. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock to raise additional cash for working capital or for other purposes. If we issue additional shares of our capital stock, our stockholders will experience dilution in their respective percentage ownership in the company and may experience dilution in the value of their shares. 18 We have no present intention to pay dividends. We have never paid dividends or made other cash distributions on our common stock, and do not expect to declare or pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain future earnings, if any, for working capital and to finance current operations and expansion of our business. A large portion of our common stock is controlled by a small number of stockholders. A large portion of our common stock is held by a small number of stockholders. As of March 29, 2010, our directors and officers collectively owned approximately 30.62% of the company’s outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders are able to influence the outcome of stockholder votes on various matters, including the election of directors and extraordinary corporate transactions including business combinations. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material and adverse effect on the market price of the common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market prices for their shares of common stock. In addition, the occurrence of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, may affect our stock price and could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. Furthermore, the current ratios of ownership of our common stock reduce the public float and liquidity of our common stock which can in turn affect the market price of our common stock. There is no assurance of an established public trading market, which would adversely affect the ability of investors in our company to sell their securities in the public markets. Although our common stock trades on the NASDAQ’s automated quotation system (the “NASDAQ Stock Market”), a regular trading market for the securities may not be sustained in the future. Market prices for our common stock will be influenced by a number of factors, including: · the issuance of new equity securities; · changes in interest rates; · competitive developments, including announcements by competitors of new products or services or significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · variations in quarterly operating results; · change in financial estimates by securities analysts; · the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; · investor perceptions of our company and the technologies industries generally; and · general economic and other national conditions. The limited prior public market and trading market may cause volatility in the market price of our common stock. Our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ under the symbol “TSTC.” The quotation of our common stock on the NASDAQ does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market currently exists, and in recent years such market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of many smaller companies like us. Our common stock is thus subject to volatility. In the absence of an active trading market: 19 · investors may have difficulty buying and selling or obtaining market quotations; · market visibility for our common stock may be limited; and · a lack of visibility for our common stock may have a depressive effect on the market for our common stock. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Our directors intend to follow a policy of retaining all of our earnings, if any, to finance the development and expansion of our business. Broker-dealer requirements may affect trading and liquidity. Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 15g-2 promulgated thereunder by the SEC require broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. Potential investors in our common stock are urged to obtain and read such disclosure carefully before purchasing any shares that are deemed to be “penny stock.” Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, as the future sale of a substantial amount of our restricted stock in the public marketplace could reduce the price of our common stock. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act (“Rule 144”), subject to certain limitations. The SEC has recently adopted amendments to Rule 144 which became effective on February 15, 2008. Under these amendments, a person who has beneficially owned restricted shares of our common stock or warrants for at least six months would be entitled to sell their securities provided that (i) such person is not deemed to have been one of our affiliates at the time of, or at any time during the three months preceding, a sale and (ii) we are subject to the Exchange Act periodic reporting requirements for at least three months before the sale. Persons who have beneficially owned restricted shares of our common stock or warrants for at least six months but who are our affiliates at the time of, or at any time during the three months preceding, a sale, would be subject to additional restrictions, by which such person would be entitled to sell within any three-month period only a number of securities that does not exceed the greater of either of the following: 20 · 1% of the total number of securities of the same class then outstanding; or · the average weekly trading volume of such securities during the four calendar weeks preceding the filing of a notice on Form 144 with respect to the sale; provided, in each case, that we are subject to the Exchange Act periodic reporting requirements for at least three months before the sale. Such sales both by affiliates and by non-affiliates must also comply with the manner of sale, current public information and notice provisions of Rule 144. 