Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly-traded securities. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations will likely suffer. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 23 Risks Related to Our Business Changes in the rates or methods of third-party reimbursements for diagnostic imaging services could result in reduced demand for our services or create downward pricing pressure, which would result in a decline in our revenues and harm to our financial position. We derive approximately 20% of our revenues from direct billings to patients and third-party payors such as Medicare, Medicaid or private health insurance companies, and changes in the rates or methods of reimbursement for the services we provide could have a significant negative impact on those revenues. Moreover, our healthcare provider clients on whom we depend for the majority of our revenues generally rely on reimbursement from third-party payors. If our clients receive decreased reimbursement, this could result in a reduced demand for our services or downward pricing pressures, which could have a material impact on our financial position. From time to time, changes designed to contain healthcare costs have been implemented, some of which have resulted in decreased reimbursement rates for diagnostic imaging services that impact our retail business. For services for which we bill Medicare directly, we are paid under the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule, which is updated on an annual basis. Under the Medicare statutory formula, payments under the Physician Fee Schedule would have decreased for the past several years if Congress failed to intervene. For example, for 2008, the fee schedule rates were to be reduced by approximately 10.1%. The Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 eliminated the 10.1% reduction for 2008 and increased the annual payment rate update by 0.5%. This increase to the annual Medicare Physician Fee Schedule payment update was effective only for Medicare claims with dates of service between January 1, 2008 and June 30, 2008. Beginning July 1, 2008, under MIPPA, the 0.5% increase was continued for the rest of 2008. In addition, MIPPA established a 1.1% increase to the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule payment update for 2009. For 2010, CMS are projecting a rate reduction of 21.2% unless Congress intervenes again to avoid the payment reduction. On December 19, 2009, President Obama signed into law the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2010 (H.R. 3326) which includes a zero percent Medicare physician update through February 28, 2010. This was further extended through March 31, 2010 by the Temporary Extension Act of 2010, signed into law by President Obama on March 2, 2010. Currently pending in the Senate is the House of Representatives' Medicare Physician Payment Reform Act of 2009 (H.R. 3961), which would prevent the rate reduction by restructuring the formula that forms the basis of the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule payments. If Congress fails to intervene to prevent the 21.2% rate reduction, the resulting decrease in payment will adversely impact our revenues and results of operations. MIPPA also modified the methodology by which the budget neutrality formula was applied to the 2009 physician fee schedule payment rates, resulting in an overall reduction in payment rates for services performed by many specialties, including an estimated 3% reduction for radiation oncology and 1% reduction for nuclear medicine. The impact of the payment rates on specific companies depends on their service mix. We estimated slight decreases in rates for our radiation oncology business but cannot predict the full impact the rate reductions will have on our future revenues or business. Also with respect to MIPPA, the legislation requires all suppliers that provide the technical component of diagnostic MRI, PET/CT, CT and nuclear medicine to be accredited by an accreditation organization designated by CMS by January 1, 2012. On January 26, 2010, CMS initially approved the following designated accreditation organizations to accredit suppliers furnishing the technical component of all advanced imaging modalities (CT, nuclear medicine, PET and MRI) on or after January 1, 2010: The American College of Radiology (ACR), the Intersocietal Accreditation Commission (IAC) and The Joint Commission. All our facilities are accredited by The Joint Commission. A number of other legislative changes impact our retail business. For example, the DRA imposed caps on Medicare payment rates for certain imaging services furnished in physician's offices and other 24 non-hospital based settings. The caps impact MRI, PET/CT and certain imaging services performed in conjunction with radiation therapy, including certain IGRT services and diagnostic imaging services used to plan IMRT. Under the cap, payments for specified imaging services cannot exceed the hospital outpatient payment rates for those services. This change applies to services furnished on or after January 1, 2007. The limitation is applicable to the technical components of the diagnostic imaging services only, which is the payment we receive for the services for which we bill directly under the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule. CMS issues on an annual basis the HOPPS rates, which are used to develop the caps. If the technical component of the service established under the Physician Fee Schedule (without including geographic adjustments) exceeds the hospital outpatient payment amount for the service (also without including geographic adjustments), then the payment is to be reduced. In other words, in those instances where the technical component for the particular service is greater for the non-hospital site, the DRA directs that the hospital outpatient payment rate be substituted for the otherwise applicable Physician Fee Schedule payment rate. The implementation of this reimbursement reduction contained in the DRA had a significant effect on our financial condition and results of operations in 2007, whereas the changes in 2008 and 2009 have been limited. The DRA also codified the reduction in reimbursement for multiple images on contiguous body parts, which was previously announced by CMS. The DRA mandated payment at 100% of the technical component of the higher priced imaging procedure and 50% for the technical component of each additional imaging procedure for multiple images of contiguous body parts within a family of codes performed in the same session. Initially, CMS announced that it would phase in this reimbursement reduction over a two-year period, to include a 25% reduction for each additional imaging procedure on contiguous body parts in 2006 and an additional 25% reduction in 2007. To date, CMS has not yet implemented the additional 25% reduction scheduled for 2007. Federal legislative proposals have been introduced that would change the percentage reduction from 25% to 50%. It is unclear what impact this change would have on our business if the proposal is passed. For HOPPS rates, effective January 1, 2009, CMS established three HOPPS imaging families according to modality—one for ultrasound, one for CT and CTA, and one for MRI and MRA services. CMS then established five composite Ambulatory Payment Classifications, or APCs, based on these HOPPS imaging families, splitting the families for CT and CTA, and MRI and MRA, into two separate composite APCs each to reflect whether the procedures are performed with or without contrast. CMS will provide a single APC payment when two or more imaging procedures using the same imaging modality are reported on a single date of service. If a with and without contrast procedure are reported together, they are paid at the higher with contrast payment category. The implementation of this new payment methodology did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. Regulatory updates to payment rates for which we bill the Medicare program directly are published annually by CMS. For payments under the Physician Fee Schedule for calendar year 2010, CMS changed the way it calculates components of the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule. First, CMS reduced payment rates for certain diagnostic services using equipment costing more than $1 million through revisions to usage assumptions from the current 50% usage rate to a 90% usage rate. This change applied to MRI and CT scans, but not for radiation therapy and other therapeutic equipment. The OIG has stated that for 2010, it intends to focus on, among other things, the practice expense components, including the equipment utilization rate, for certain imaging services reimbursed under Medicare Physician Fee Schedule to determine whether Medicare payment reflects the actual expenses incurred and whether the utilization rate reflects current industry practices. Moreover, federal legislative proposals have been introduced that would result in lower usage assumptions and, if finalized, would supersede CMS's regulatory changes. Further with respect to its 2010 changes, CMS also reduced payment for services primarily involving the technical component rather than the physician work component, including the services we 25 provide, by adjusting downward malpractice payments for these services. The reductions primarily impact radiology and other diagnostic tests. All these changes to the Medicare Fee Schedule will be transitioned over a four year period such that beginning in 2013, CMS will fully implement the revised payment rates. CMS projects that the combined impact of these changes, when fully implemented will result in an estimated 5% reduction in radiation oncology, 16% reduction in radiology, 23% reduction in nuclear medicine and 34% reduction for all suppliers providing diagnostic tests generally. For the 2010 transitioned payment, CMS estimates the impact of its changes will result in a 1% reduction in radiation oncology, 5% reduction in radiology, 18% reduction in nuclear medicine and 12% reduction for all suppliers providing the technical component of diagnostic tests generally. These impacts are calculated prior to any application of the projected negative update factor of 21.2% related to MIPPA (which may be implemented in April 2010 unless Congress intervenes) and may impact our future revenues. If the CMS 2010 reimbursement rates had been in effect for full year 2009, we estimate that our annualized retail revenue related to MRI and radiation oncology would not have been materially impacted. In addition to annual updates to the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule, as indicated above, CMS also publishes regulatory changes to the HOPPS on an annual basis. These payments are the amounts received by our hospital clients for hospital outpatient services. For 2008, the national Medicare HOPPS payment rate for nonmyocardial PET and PET/CT scans was $1,057 per scan and the national payment rate for myocardial PET scans was $1,400 per scan. Effective January 1, 2008, CMS also bundled the PET and PET/CT payment for radiopharmaceuticals with the payment for the PET and PET/CT scan. In addition, CMS reduced the 2008 national Medicare HOPPS rate for MRI scans by approximately 3%. The 2008 national Medicare HOPPS payment rates for stereotactic radiosurgery treatment delivery services ranged from $1,057 to $8,055, depending on the level of service. For 2009, the payment rate for nonmyocardial PET and PET/CT scans is $1,037 per scan. For myocardial PET procedures, the 2009 payment rate is $1,157 per scan. For stereotactic radiosurgery treatment delivery services, the 2009 payment rates range from $952 to $7,642, depending on the level of service. On October 30, 2009, CMS released its 2010 national Medicare HOPPS payment rates, which went into effect January 1, 2010. For nonmyocardial PET and PET/CT, the 2010 payment rate is $1,037 per scan. For myocardial PET procedures, the 2010 payment rate is $1,433 per scan. For stereotactic radiosurgery treatment delivery services, the 2010 payment rates range from $963 to $7,344, depending on the level of service. At this time, we cannot predict the impact the DRA and PET and PET/CT Medicare HOPPS rate reductions will have on our future revenues or business. In addition, we cannot predict whether or the extent to which proposed or future statutory or regulatory changes will affect the demand for our services. For example, President Obama's budget for fiscal year 2010 includes provisions that may require the use of radiology benefit managers to preauthorize certain imaging services. Moreover, healthcare reform under the current administration is a priority. If laws are passed, certain changes could become effective as early as sometime in 2010. In addition to the House of Representatives' Affordable Health Care for America Act (H.R. 3962), the Senate's Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (H.R. 3590) would substantially change the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers and may negatively impact payment rates for certain imaging services. Also, on February 22, 2010, President Obama released a third health care reform proposal, which is currently being considered by Congress. At this time, we cannot predict which of the proposals, if any, will be adopted or if adopted, what effect, if any, these or any other proposals would have on our future revenues or business. Future requirements limiting access to or payment for radiology or radiation oncology services may negatively impact our future revenues or business. 26 We may experience competition from other medical diagnostic and radiation oncology companies and equipment manufacturers and this competition could adversely affect our revenues and our business. The market for diagnostic imaging and radiation oncology services and systems is competitive. Our major diagnostic imaging competitors include RadNet, Inc., InSight Health Services Corp., Medquest, Inc., Medical Resources, Inc., Shared Medical Services, Kings Medical Company Inc. and DMS Health Group. Our major radiation oncology competitors include Radiation Therapy Services, Inc., Oncare Medical Corp., Vontage Oncology, Inc., and US Oncology, Inc. In addition to direct competition from other imaging and radiation oncology providers, we compete with independent imaging centers and referring physicians with diagnostic imaging systems in their own offices, as well as with original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, that aggressively sell or lease imaging systems to healthcare providers for full-time installation. In recent years we have seen an increase in activity by OEMs' sale of systems directly to a certain number of our clients. Typically, OEMs target our higher scan volume clients. This increase in activity by OEMs has resulted in overcapacity of systems in the marketplace, especially related to medical groups adding imaging capacity within their practice settings. This has caused an increase in the number of our higher scan volume clients deciding not to renew their contracts. We replace these higher volume scan clients typically with lower volume clients. Our MRI revenues decreased during the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to 2008 due to a decrease in demand. We believe that MRI revenues will continue to decline in future years. There are many competitors in the imaging sector we find ourselves competing with to gain business. If we are unable to successfully compete, our client base would decline and our business and financial condition would be harmed. Our revenues may fluctuate or be unpredictable and this may impact our financial results. The amount and timing of revenues that we may derive from our business will fluctuate based on: •variations in the rate at which clients renew their contracts; •the extent to which our mobile shared-service clients become full-time clients; •changes in the number of days of service we can offer with respect to a given diagnostic imaging system due to equipment malfunctions or the seasonal factors discussed below; and •the mix of wholesale and retail billing for our services. In addition, we experience seasonality in the sale of our services. For example, our revenues typically decline from our third fiscal quarter to our fourth fiscal quarter. First and fourth quarter revenues are typically lower than those from the second and third quarters. First quarter revenue can be affected primarily by inclement weather, the results of which are fewer patient scans during the period. Fourth quarter revenue is affected primarily by holiday and client and patient vacation schedules and inclement weather, the results of which are fewer patient scans during the period. As a result, our revenues may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, and our quarterly results may be below market expectations. We also experience fluctuations in revenues generated due to acquisition activity and general economic conditions, including recession or economic slowdown. We may not be able to reduce our expenses, including our debt service obligations, quickly enough to respond to these declines in revenue, which would make our business difficult to operate and would harm our financial results. We may be unable to renew or maintain our client contracts, which would harm our business and financial results. Upon expiration of our clients' contracts, we are subject to the risk that clients will cease using our imaging services and purchase or lease their own imaging systems or use our competitors' imaging 27 systems. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we continued to experience a high rate of contract terminations partially due to stepped up marketing, sales and attractive financing alternatives being offered by original equipment manufacturers to our clients. A portion of our clients can execute early termination clauses and discontinue service prior to maturity. As a result, our MRI revenues for 2009 declined compared to 2008 levels due to a decrease in demand and we believe that MRI revenues from our shared-service operations will continue to decline in future periods. If these contracts are not renewed, it could result in a significant negative impact on our business. It is not always possible to immediately obtain replacement clients, and historically many replacement clients have been smaller facilities which have a lower number of scans than lost clients. Managed care organizations may prevent healthcare providers from using our services which would cause us to lose current and prospective clients. Healthcare providers participating as providers under managed care plans may be required to refer diagnostic imaging tests to specific imaging service providers depending on the plan in which each covered patient is enrolled. These requirements currently inhibit healthcare providers from using our diagnostic imaging services in some cases. The proliferation of managed care may prevent an increasing number of healthcare providers from using our services in the future which would cause our revenues to decline. We may be unable to effectively maintain our imaging and radiation oncology systems or generate revenue when our systems are not working. Timely, effective service is essential to maintaining our reputation and high utilization rates on our imaging and radiation oncology systems. Repairs to one of our systems can take up to two weeks and result in a loss of revenue. Our warranties and maintenance contracts do not fully compensate us for loss of revenue when our systems are not working. The principal components of our operating costs include depreciation, salaries paid to technologists and other clinical staff, drivers, annual system maintenance costs, insurance and transportation costs. Because the majority of these expenses are fixed, a reduction in the number of scans or treatments performed due to out-of-service equipment will result in lower revenues and margins. Repairs of our equipment are performed for us by the equipment manufacturers. These manufacturers may not be able to perform repairs or supply needed parts in a timely manner. Thus, if we experience greater than anticipated system malfunctions or if we are unable to promptly obtain the service necessary to keep our systems functioning effectively, our revenues could decline and our ability to provide services would be harmed. Our ability to maximize the utilization of our diagnostic imaging equipment may be adversely impacted by harsh weather conditions, which may affect our ability to generate revenue. Harsh weather conditions can adversely impact our operations and financial condition. To the extent severe weather patterns affect the regions in which we operate, potential patients may find it difficult to travel to our centers and we may have difficulty moving our mobile systems along their scheduled routes. As a result, we would experience a decrease in scan volume during that period. Our equipment utilization, scan volume or revenues could be adversely affected by similar conditions in the future. Adverse changes in general domestic and worldwide economic conditions and instability and disruption of credit markets could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, or liquidity. We are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions, including recession or economic slowdown and disruption of credit markets. Recent global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions and recession in most major economies continuing into 2010. Continued concerns about the 28 systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the United States mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the United States have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for the United States economy. Added concerns fueled by the United States government financial assistance to certain companies and other federal government's interventions in the United States financial system has led to increased market uncertainty and instability in both United States and international capital and credit markets. These conditions, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence, increased unemployment, increased tax rates and governmental budget deficits and debt levels have contributed to volatility of unprecedented levels. We believe our MRI and PET/CT scan volumes have been impacted during 2009 and will continue to be impacted in 2010 by rising unemployment rates, the number of under-insured or uninsured patients and other conditions arising from the global economic conditions described above. At this time, it is unclear what impact this might have on our future revenues or business. As a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers. Continued turbulence in the United States and international markets and economies may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers. If these market conditions continue, they may limit our ability, and the ability of our customers, to timely replace maturing liabilities, and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, resulting in adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not receive payment from some of our healthcare provider customers because of their financial circumstances. Some of our healthcare provider customers do not have significant financial resources, liquidity or access to capital. If these customers experience financial difficulties they may be unable to pay us for the equipment and services that we provide. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, write-offs of accounts receivables from healthcare provider customers that become insolvent, file for bankruptcy or are otherwise unable to pay amounts owed to us. A significant deterioration in general or local economic conditions could have a material adverse affect on the financial health of certain of our healthcare provider customers. As a result, we may have to increase the amounts of accounts receivables that we write-off, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Natural disasters could adversely affect our business and operations. Our corporate headquarters is located in California and we currently operate in various geographic regions across 45 states, subject to varying risks for natural disaster, including but not limited to, hurricanes, blizzards, floods, earthquakes and tornados. Depending upon their severity, these natural disasters could damage our facilities and systems or prevent potential patients from traveling to our centers. Damage to our equipment or any interruption in our business would adversely affect our financial condition and could result in the loss of the capital invested in the damaged facilities or systems or anticipated future cash flows from those facilities or imaging systems. Technological change in our industry could reduce the demand for our services and require us to incur significant costs to upgrade our equipment. We operate in a competitive, capital intensive and high fixed-cost industry. The development of new technologies or refinements of existing ones might make our existing systems technologically or 29 economically obsolete, or reduce the need for our systems. MRI, PET and PET/CT, radiation oncology and other diagnostic imaging systems are currently manufactured by numerous companies. Competition among manufacturers for a greater share of the MRI, PET and PET/CT and other diagnostic imaging systems market has resulted in and likely will continue to result in technological advances in the speed and imaging capacity of these new systems. Consequently, the obsolescence of our systems may be accelerated. Should new technological advances occur, we may not be able to acquire the new or improved systems. In the future, to the extent we are unable to generate sufficient cash from our operations or obtain additional funds through bank financing or the issuance of equity or debt securities, we may be unable to maintain a competitive equipment base. In addition, advancing technology may enable hospitals, physicians or other diagnostic service providers to perform procedures without the assistance of diagnostic service providers such as ourselves. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our competitive position in our targeted regions or expand our business. High fuel costs would harm our operations. Fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our mobile operating expenses. Historically, fuel costs have been subject to wide price fluctuations based on geopolitical issues and supply and demand. Fuel availability is also affected by demand for home heating oil, diesel, gasoline and other petroleum products, as well as overall economic conditions. Because of the effect of these events on the price and availability of fuel, the cost and future availability of fuel cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty. In the event of a fuel supply shortage or further increases in fuel prices, a curtailment of scheduled mobile service could result. There have been significant increases in fuel costs and continued high fuel costs or further increases will harm our financial condition and results of operations. Because a high percentage of our operating expenses are fixed, a relatively small decrease in revenues could have a significant negative impact on our financial results. A high percentage of our expenses are fixed, meaning they do not vary significantly with the increase or decrease in revenues. Such expenses include, but are not limited to, debt service and capital lease payments, rent and operating lease payments, salaries, maintenance, insurance and vehicle operation costs. As a result, a relatively small reduction in the prices we charge for our services or procedure volume could have a disproportionate negative effect on our financial results. We may be subject to professional liability risks, which could be costly and could negatively impact our business and financial results. We may be subject to professional liability claims. Although there currently are no known hazards associated with any of our scanning or therapy delivery technologies directly related to the physical equipment when used properly, hazards may be discovered in the future. Furthermore, there is a risk of harm to a patient during an MRI if the patient has certain types of metal implants or cardiac pacemakers within his or her body. Although patients are screened to safeguard against this risk, screening may nevertheless fail to identify the hazard. There also is potential risk to patients treated with therapy equipment secondary to inadvertent or excessive over- or under exposure to radiation—a topic on which the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health held a hearing on February 26, 2010. We maintain professional liability insurance with coverage that we believe is consistent with industry practice and appropriate in light of the risks attendant to our business. However, any claim made against us could be costly to defend against, result in a substantial damage award against us and divert the attention of our management from our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. 30 Loss of key executives and failure to attract qualified managers and sales persons could limit our growth and negatively impact our operations. We depend upon our management team to a substantial extent. In particular, we depend upon Mr. Viviano, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors for his skills, experience and knowledge of our Company and industry contacts. We do not have key employee insurance policies covering any of our management team. The loss of Mr. Viviano or other members of our management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We require field managers and sales persons with experience in our industry to operate and sell our services for diagnostic imaging and radiation oncology. It is impossible to predict the availability of qualified field managers and sales persons or the compensation levels that will be required to hire them. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management or our inability to hire qualified field managers and sales persons at economically reasonable compensation levels could adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business. Loss of, and failure to attract, qualified employees, technologists and other clinical staff could limit our growth and negatively impact our operations. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in our industry for qualified employees is intense. In particular, there is a very high demand for qualified technologists who are necessary to operate our systems, particularly PET and PET/CT technologists. We may not be able to hire and retain a sufficient number of technologists, therapists, physicists and dosimetrists and we expect that our costs for the salaries and benefits of these employees will continue to increase for the foreseeable future because of the industry's competitive demand for their services. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. Our positron emission tomography and positron emission tomography/computed tomography, or PET and PET/CT services, and some of our other imaging services require the use of radioactive materials, which could subject us to regulation-related costs and delays and potential liabilities for injuries or violations of environmental, health and safety laws. Our PET and PET/CT services and some of our other imaging services require radioactive materials. While this radioactive material has a short half-life, meaning it quickly breaks down into inert, or non-radioactive substances, storage, use and disposal of these materials present the risk of accidental environmental contamination and physical injury. We are subject to federal, state and local regulations governing storage, handling and disposal of these materials and waste products. In spite of our safety procedures for storing, handling and disposing of these hazardous materials, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from those hazardous materials. We maintain professional liability insurance with coverage that we believe is consistent with industry practice and appropriate in light of the risks attendant to our business. However, in the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the coverage of our insurance. We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, or at all. We could incur significant costs and the diversion of our management's attention in order to comply with current or future environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We may not be able to achieve the expected benefits from future acquisitions, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results. We have historically relied on acquisitions as a method of expanding our business. In addition, we will consider future acquisitions as opportunities arise. If we do not successfully integrate acquisitions, 31 we may not realize anticipated operating advantages and cost savings. The integration of companies that have previously operated separately involves a number of risks, including: •demands on management related to the increase in our size after an acquisition; •the diversion of management's attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations; •difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees; •potential adverse effects on operating results; and •challenges in retaining clients. We may not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency acquired companies have achieved or might achieve separately. Successful integration of each of their operations will depend upon our ability to manage those operations and to eliminate redundant and excess costs. Because of difficulties in combining operations, we may not be able to achieve the cost savings and other size-related benefits that we hoped to achieve after these acquisitions, which would harm our financial condition and operating results. Two of our stockholders and their affiliates beneficially own almost half of our outstanding shares of common stock and have the contractual right to designate members of our board of directors and board committees, and will therefore be able to exert significant influence over us, including with respect to change of control transactions. As of December 31, 2009, funds managed by Oaktree Capital Management, LLC and MTS Health Investors, LLC (collectively the "Oaktree Parties") beneficially owned approximately 47.1% of our outstanding shares of common stock. So long as they beneficially own at least 35% of our outstanding shares of common stock, the Oaktree Parties will have the right to designate three of the members of our board of directors. As a result of the arrangements described above, the Oaktree Parties have the ability to exert significant influence on our management and operations, as well as matters requiring stockholder approval, including approving mergers, consolidations or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, beginning in April 2010, provisions of a standstill agreement we entered into with the Oaktree Parties limiting their ability to acquire more than 49.9% of our outstanding common stock will terminate. The interests of the Oaktree Parties may conflict with your interests. Possible volatility in our stock price could negatively affect us and our stockholders. The trading price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange has fluctuated significantly in the past. During the period from January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2009, the trading price of our common stock fluctuated from a high of $12.03 per share to a low of $4.84 per share. In the past, we have experienced a drop in stock price following an announcement of disappointing earnings or earnings guidance. Any such announcement in the future could lead to a similar drop in stock price. The price of our common stock could also be subject to wide fluctuations in the future as a result of a number of other factors, including the following: •changes in expectations as to future financial performance or buy/sell recommendations of securities analysts; •our, or a competitor's, announcement of new products or services, or significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; and •the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies. 32 In addition, the U.S. securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of companies in these markets. Broad market and industry factors may lead to volatility in the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Moreover, our stock has limited trading volume, and this illiquidity may increase the volatility of our stock price. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of an individual company's securities, securities class action litigation often has been instituted against that company. The institution of similar litigation against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our organizational documents may discourage an acquisition of us. In the future, we could become the subject of an unsolicited attempted takeover of our Company. Although an unsolicited takeover could be in the best interests of our stockholders, our organizational documents and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware both contain provisions that will impede the removal of directors and may discourage a third-party from making a proposal to acquire us. For example, the provisions: •permit the board of directors to increase its own size and fill the resulting vacancies; •provide for a board composed of three classes of directors with each class serving a staggered three-year term; •authorize the issuance of additional shares of preferred stock in one or more series without a stockholder vote; and •establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to the board of directors. Moreover, these provisions can only be amended by the vote of 662/3% or more of our outstanding shares entitled to vote. Furthermore, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Risks Related to Government Regulation of Our Business The regulatory and political framework is uncertain and evolving. Healthcare laws and regulations may change significantly in the future which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We continuously monitor these developments and modify our operations from time to time as the legislative and regulatory environment changes. Currently, there are a number of pending federal legislative proposals that would substantially change the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers and may negatively impact payment rates for imaging services. On November 7, 2009, the House of Representatives passed the Affordable Health Care for America Act (H.R. 3962), which, among other things, would require payment rates for services using imaging equipment that costs over $1 million to be calculated using revised equipment usage assumptions and would reduce payment rates for imaging services paid under the Medicare Part B fee schedule. The current 50% usage assumption rate would be replaced with a 75% usage rate for such equipment (compared to CMS's usage rate of 90%, discussed below). In addition, on December 24, 2009, the Senate passed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (H.R. 3590) which would similarly revise the equipment usage assumption for advanced diagnostic imaging services (which includes MRI, CT and PET). The Senate bill would replace the current 50% 33 usage assumption rate with a 65% usage rate for such equipment for 2010 through 2012. The rate would be further increased to 70% beginning in 2013 and 75% beginning in 2014. Both H.R. 3962 and H.R. 3590 would change the technical component discount on imaging of contiguous body parts during a single imaging session from 25% to 50%. Also, on February 22, 2010, President Obama released a third health care reform proposal, which is currently being considered by Congress. We are unable to predict whether any of these proposals will become law or in what form, whether any additional or similar changes to statutes or regulations (including interpretations) will occur in the future, or what effect any such legislation or regulation would have on our business. The federal government may, however, have greater involvement in the healthcare industry than in prior years, and such greater involvement may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Complying with federal and state regulations is an expensive and time-consuming process, and any failure to comply could result in substantial penalties. We are directly or indirectly through our clients subject to extensive regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business, including the federal Anti-Kickback Law and similar state anti-kickback laws, the Stark Law and similar state laws affecting physician referrals, the federal False Claims Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, and similar state laws addressing privacy and security, state unlawful practice of medicine and fee splitting laws, state certificate of need laws, the Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, and requirements for handling biohazardous and radioactive materials and wastes. Both federal and state government agencies have heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of health care companies, as well as their executives and managers. These investigations relate to a wide variety of matters, including referral and billing practices. The Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services ("DHHS") and the Department of Justice ("DOJ") have, from time to time, established national enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. Some of our activities could become the subject of governmental investigations or inquiries. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws and regulations to which we or our clients are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines or curtailment of our operations, individually or in the aggregate, could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Our risk of being found in violation of these laws and regulations is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert management's attention from the operation of our business. For a more detailed discussion of the various state and federal regulations to which we are subject see "Business—Regulation," "Business—Reimbursement" and "Business—Environmental, Health and Safety Laws." 34 Federal and state anti-kickback and anti-self-referral laws may adversely affect our operations and income. Various federal and state laws govern financial arrangements among health care providers. The federal Anti-Kickback Law prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral of Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare program patients, or in return for, or to induce, the purchase, lease or order of items or services that are covered by Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs. Many state laws also prohibit the solicitation, payment or receipt of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral of patients in private as well as government programs. Violation of these laws may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties and/or exclusion from participation in federal or state healthcare programs. We believe that we are operating in compliance with applicable laws and believe that our arrangements with providers would not be found to violate the federal and state anti-kickback laws. However, these laws could be interpreted in a manner that could have an adverse effect on our operations. The Stark Law prohibits a physician from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to any entity for certain designated health services (including MRI and other diagnostic imaging services) if the physician has a prohibited financial relationship with that entity, unless an exception applies. Although we believe that our operations do not violate the Stark Law, our activities may be challenged. If a challenge to our activities is successful, it could have an adverse effect on our operations. In addition, legislation may be enacted in the future that further addresses Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse or that imposes additional requirements or burdens on us. A number of states in which our diagnostic imaging centers are located have adopted a form of anti-kickback law and/or Stark Law. The scope of these laws and the interpretations of them vary from state to state and are enforced by state courts and regulatory authorities, each with broad discretion. A determination of liability under the laws described in this risk factor could result in fines and penalties and restrictions on our ability to operate in these jurisdictions. In addition, under the DRA, states are encouraged to adopt false claims acts, similar to the federal False Claims Act, which establish liability for submission of fraudulent claims to the State Medicaid program and contain qui tam or whistleblower provisions. States enacting such false claims statutes will receive an increased percentage of any recovery from a State Medicaid judgment or settlement. Adoption of new false claims statutes in states where we operate may impose additional requirements or burdens on us. Healthcare reform legislation and regulations could impact our operations or limit the prices we can charge for our services, which would reduce our revenues and harm our operating results. In addition to extensive existing government healthcare regulation, there have been and continue to be numerous initiatives at the federal and state levels for reforms affecting the payment for and availability of healthcare services, including proposals that would significantly limit reimbursement under the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Limitations on reimbursement amounts and other cost containment pressures have in the past resulted in a decrease in the revenue we receive for each scan we perform. For example, the DRA, which was signed into law on February 8, 2006, contains provisions affecting Medicare payment for imaging services furnished in a number of settings. Regulations published in November 2006 by CMS identify 14 supplier standards applicable to independent diagnostic testing facilities, or IDTFs, which include some of our facilities. CMS designed these standards to ensure that minimum quality standards are met to protect Medicare beneficiaries. If an IDTF fails to meet one or more of the standards at the time of enrollment or re-enrollment, then its application will be denied or the agency will revoke an IDTF's billing privileges. These standards went into effect on January 1, 2007, and IDTFs must meet these standards to obtain or retain 35 enrollment in the Medicare program. CMS published additional regulatory provisions in November 2007 and November 2008 that revised the existing IDTF standards and also created several additional standards. These changes went into effect on January 1, 2008 and January 1, 2009, respectively. To the extent that CMS publishes interpretations of these standards that are more restrictive than the standards described in the agency's published rules, our business could be adversely impacted. At this time, we cannot predict the impact that these new standards will have on our business. It is also not clear at this time what existing or future proposals, if any, will be made or adopted and, if adopted, what effect these proposals would have on our business. Healthcare reform under the current administration is a priority. If laws are passed, certain changes could become effective as early as 2010. In addition to the House of Representatives' Affordable Health Care for America Act (H.R. 3962), the Senate's Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (H.R. 3590) would substantially change the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers and may negatively impact payment rates for certain imaging services. Also, on February 22, 2010, President Obama released a third health care reform proposal, which is currently being considered by Congress. At this time, we cannot predict which of the proposals, if any, will be adopted or if adopted, what effect, if any, these or any other proposals would have on the demand for our services or the revenue per procedure that we can collect. The application or repeal of state certificate of need regulations could harm our business and financial results. Some states require a certificate of need or similar regulatory approval prior to the acquisition of high-cost capital items, including diagnostic imaging systems or provision of diagnostic imaging services by us or our clients. Twenty-one of the 45 states in which we operate require a certificate of need and more states may adopt similar licensure frameworks in the future. In many cases, a limited number of these certificates are available in a given state. If we are unable to obtain the applicable certificate or approval or additional certificates or approvals necessary to expand our operations, these regulations may limit or preclude our operations in the relevant jurisdictions. Conversely, states in which we have obtained a certificate of need may repeal existing certificate of need regulations or liberalize exemptions from the regulations. For example, Pennsylvania, Nebraska, New York, Ohio and Tennessee have liberalized exemptions from certificate of need programs. The repeal of certificate of need regulations in states in which we have obtained a certificate of need or a certificate of need exemption would lower barriers to entry for competition in those states and could adversely affect our business. If we fail to comply with various licensure, certification and accreditation standards, we may be subject to loss of licensure, certification or accreditation which would adversely affect our operations. All of the states in which we operate require that the imaging technologists that operate our computed tomography, single photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography systems be licensed or certified. Also, each of our retail sites must continue to meet various requirements in order to receive payments from the Medicare program. In addition, we are currently accredited by The Joint Commission, an independent, non-profit organization that accredits various types of healthcare providers such as hospitals, nursing homes and providers of diagnostic imaging services. In the healthcare industry, various types of organizations are accredited to meet certain Medicare certification requirements, expedite third-party payments and fulfill state licensure requirements. Some managed care providers prefer to contract with accredited organizations. Any lapse in our licenses, certifications or accreditations, or those of our technologists, or the failure of any of our retail sites to satisfy the necessary requirements under Medicare could adversely affect our operations and financial results. 36 Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could restrict our operations and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2009, we had $667.9 million of outstanding debt, excluding letters of credit, and approximately $115.5 million was available for borrowing under our New Revolving Credit Facility. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences for our stockholders. For example, it could: •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions and for other general corporate purposes; •increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and competitive pressures in our industry; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt in relation to cash flow; and •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry. If there is a default under the agreements governing our material indebtedness, the value of our assets may not be sufficient to repay our creditors. Our property and equipment, which make up a significant portion of our tangible assets, had a net book value of $340.1 million as of December 31, 2009 and $357.2 million as of December 31, 2008. The book value of these assets should not be relied on as a measure of realizable value for such assets. The realizable value may be lower than such net book value. The value of our assets in the event of liquidation will depend upon market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and similar factors. A sale of these assets in a bankruptcy or similar proceeding would likely be made under duress, which would reduce the amounts that could be recovered. Furthermore, such a sale could occur when other companies in our industry also are distressed, which might increase the supply of similar assets and therefore reduce the amounts that could be recovered. Our goodwill and other intangible assets had a net book value of $294.4 million as of December 31, 2009 and $304.2 million as of December 31, 2008. These assets primarily consist of the excess of the acquisition cost over the fair market value of the net assets acquired in purchase transactions, customer contracts and costs to obtain certificates of need. The value of goodwill and other intangible assets will continue to depend significantly upon the success of our business as a going concern and the growth in future cash flows. As a result, in the event of a default under the agreements governing our material indebtedness or any bankruptcy or dissolution of our Company, the realizable value of these assets will likely be substantially lower and may be insufficient to satisfy the claims of our creditors. The financial condition of our assets will likely deteriorate during any period of financial distress preceding a sale of our assets. In addition, much of our assets consist of illiquid assets that may have to be sold at a substantial discount in an insolvency situation. Accordingly, the proceeds of any such sale of our assets may not be sufficient to satisfy, and may be substantially less than, amounts due to our creditors. Despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more indebtedness, which could increase the risks described above. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the New Credit Facility and the indenture governing the notes permit us or our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, subject to certain restrictions. Further, the New Credit Facility and the 37 indenture governing the notes allow for the incurrence of indebtedness by our subsidiaries, all of which would be structurally senior to the notes. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, our New Credit Facility permitted additional borrowings of up to approximately $115.5 million under the New Revolving Credit Facility subject to the covenants contained in the New Credit Facility, and all of those borrowings would be senior to the notes to the extent of the assets securing the New Credit Facility. If new debt is added to our or our subsidiaries' current debt levels, the risks discussed above could intensify. If we are unable to generate or borrow sufficient cash to make payments on our indebtedness or to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, our financial condition would be materially harmed, our business may fail and you may lose all of your investment. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our obligations with respect to our debt will depend on our financial and operating performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, business and other factors beyond our control. As a result of the recent global market and economic conditions, the cost and availability of credit and equity capital have been severely impacted. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or fund our other liquidity needs, we may need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity or sell certain of our assets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to restructure or refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, which could cause us to default on our debt obligations and impair our liquidity. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. We may not be able to finance future needs or adapt our business plan to changes because of restrictions placed on us by our credit facility, our notes, the indentures governing our notes and instruments governing our other indebtedness. The indenture governing the notes and our New Credit Facility contain affirmative and negative covenants which restrict, among other things, our ability to: •incur additional debt; •sell assets; •create liens or other encumbrances; •make certain payments and dividends; or •merge or consolidate. All of these restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. A failure to comply with these covenants and restrictions would permit the relevant creditors to declare all amounts borrowed under the relevant borrowing, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable. If the indebtedness under the credit facility or the notes is accelerated, we may not have sufficient assets to repay amounts due under the credit facility, the notes or on other indebtedness then outstanding. If we are not able to refinance our debt, we could become subject to bankruptcy proceedings, and you may lose all or a portion of your investment because the claims of certain of our creditors on our assets are prior to the claims of holders of the notes. 38 Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition. An increase in prevailing interest rates would have an effect on the interest rates charged on our variable rate debt, which rise and fall upon changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2009, approximately $460.0 million of our debt was at variable interest rates. Increases in interest rates would also impact the refinancing of our debt. If interest rates are higher when our debt becomes due, we may be forced to borrow at the higher rates. If prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates, the increased interest expense would adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our debt. As a protection against rising interest rates, we may enter into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate exchange contracts. These agreements, however, carry the risks that the other parties to the agreements may not perform or that the agreements could be unenforceable. Within 180 days after the closing date of the New Credit Facility, which occurred December 1, 2009, we are required to enter into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate exchange contracts that would have the effect of fixing the rate of a specified percentage of our variable rate debt for periods to be determined. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 