ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FUTURE RESULTS, FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION AND CERTAIN IMPORTANT FACTORS In this Annual Report we make, and from time to time we otherwise make, written and oral statements regarding our business and prospects, such as projections of future performance, statements of management’s plans and objectives, forecasts of market trends, and other matters that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Statements containing the words or phrases “will likely result,” “are expected to,” “will continue,” “is anticipated,” “estimates,” “projects,” “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “target,” “goal,” “plans,” “objective,” & #8220;should” or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which may appear in documents, reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, written or oral presentations made by officers or other representatives made by us to analysts, stockholders, investors, news organizations and others, and discussions with management and other of our representatives. For such statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our future results, including results related to forward-looking statements, involve a number of risks and uncertainties. No assurance can be given that the results reflected in any forward-looking statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made. Our forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions that are sometimes based upon estimates, data, communications and other information from suppliers, government agencies and other sources that may be subject to revision. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update or keep current either (i) any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of such statement, or (ii) the important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially f rom historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or which are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. In addition to other matters identified or described by us from time to time in filings with the SEC, there are several important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or results that are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. Some of these important factors, but not necessarily all important factors, include the following: RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS We rely on a small number of significant customers. Our success depends substantially upon retaining our significant clients, such as China Unicom, China Mobile and China Telecom. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain long-term relationships or secure renewals of short-term relationships with our significant clients in the future. If we were to lose such customers, it is unclear if we would be able to replace them or how long it would take to do so. Accordingly, our revenues and profitability would be negatively impacted. We typically enter into contracts with individual local affiliates of our major customers and treat these local affiliates as separate customers. Although it has been our business practice to interact with each local affiliate individually, they are under the common control of their parent company. Procurement decisions for equipment are now made by the parent company and its local affiliates through a centralized bidding process, which has led to intensified industry-wide pricing pressure. During the ordinary course of our business, we also experience delays in payments from China Unicom, China Mobile and China Telecom. As explained in the next risk factor, these delays are largely due to our limited bargaining leverage and the resulting lack of a specific timetable in our sale and purchase contracts to require our customers to issue completion certificates and to perform preliminary inspections, which are pre-conditions to their initiation of payments. Despite our constant attempts, we have not been able to significantly change this prevalent practice in our industry due to our limited bargaining leverage, and we expect this practice to continue in coming periods. 11 Because we have limited bargaining leverage with China Unicom, China Mobile and China Telecom, some contractual terms and market practices are materially adverse to our interests. China Unicom, China Mobile and China Telecom, or the Big 3, award contracts through competitive bidding. As China Unicom and China Mobile were the two major licensed wireless operators in China prior to the industry restructuring which was completed in 2008 and even after the restructuring they remain major industry participants, we have limited negotiating leverage with these key clients in the bidding process. As a result, many proposed contractual terms and market practices subject to bidding are materially adverse to our interests. For example, most of our contracts, in the form contained in the bidding materials, do not specify a timetable for our customers to perform the inspection of products we install. This affects our revenues as the inspection by our wireless operator customers is a condition to our recognition of service reven ue. Any worsening of these terms and conditions could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and cash flows from operations. We have long accounts receivable cycles and long collection periods, and our liquidity and cash flows from operations will deteriorate if our accounts receivable cycles or collection periods continue to lengthen. As is customary in our industry in China, we experience relatively long accounts receivable cycles and long collection periods of up to approximately 355 days in 2010. These extended accounts receivable cycles and collection periods may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to fund our operations from operating cash flow. In addition, if our customers experience sales slowdowns or other adverse effects to their business, they may not make payment in a timely fashion, despite our extended accounts receivable cycles and long collection periods. Failure of our customers to pay us in a timely manner would negatively affect our working capital, which would in turn adversely affect our cash flow, revenues and operating results in subsequent periods. We have not entered into any long term contracts with our customers. All of our agreements with our customers are for short term projects or sales of equipment. While we believe that our significant relationships with the Big 3 will likely provide additional sales agreements in the future, none of our customers are contractually bound to purchase any products or services from us in the future. If our customers do not continue to purchase products or services from us in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend on a limited number of suppliers. We rely on certain third-party suppliers to provide us various pieces of telecommunications equipment. If we were to lose our relationship with those suppliers, we may experience difficulties finding a suitable replacement for our equipment needs, and our business and operations could be adversely affected. In addition, if any of our major suppliers fails to deliver our required materials in time for our production, and we are unable to find the required materials from other suppliers in a timely manner and on acceptable terms, there will be a delay in our provision of products and services to our customers. Such delays would damage our relationships with our customers and may materially and adversely affect our business operations. We utilize a third-party production center for the manufacture of the products we sell to our customers. Although we are parties to a memorandum of cooperation regarding such manufacturing arrangement, we cannot be assured that such cooperation will continue indefinitely. Should we be required to utilize a different source for our manufactured products our costs could be adversely affected. We hire third parties to carry out some of the initial installation of our wireless coverage products. We are liable for the failure or inadequacy of their services. If their performance is inadequate, we will be liable for any remedial measures undertaken as a result of such failures. We may also be vulnerable for the loss and unavailability of services resulting from such failures. If the wireless communication sector in China does not maintain its current pace of growth, or if the telecommunications operators reduce their investments in network coverage in the near future, the profitability and future prospects of our business and our liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. We generate most of our revenues from the provision of wireless coverage products and services to telecommunications operators in China. Our future success depends on the continued growth of the PRC wireless communication industry. Any slowdown in the development of the wireless communication industry in China or reduction in our customers’ expenditure on wireless coverage products and services may reduce market demand for our products and services. 3G network deployment requires significant capital investment by PRC telecommunications operators, including investments in wireless coverage products and services and RF parts and components. Therefore, we believe that issuance of 3G licenses will in general have a positive impact on the growth of our business. Although telecommunications operators have been increasing their capital expenditure for 3G network construction in China, it is uncertain how long this investment trend would continue, and any reduction of the capital expenditure for 3G network development will negatively impact our business growth and liquidity. 12 We historically recognized significantly lower revenues in the first quarter, which sometimes resulted in net losses in the first quarter, and our revenues may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future, resulting in quarterly net losses. Our customers typically set their annual budgets at the beginning for each year. Once the annual budget is set, the customers will commence the bidding process for specific projects. As a result, the amount of revenues we could recognize is typically lower during the earlier part of the year, especially during the first quarter. In addition, for our standalone service contracts and bundled sale contracts, our customers generally use the same team to manage different aspects of a project, including bidding, contracting and payment. Their work is performed in accordance with their internal annual and semi-annual project management process. As a result, our customers prefer to perform completion and preliminary inspections and sign contracts for each batch of installed projects at the same time. Under our revenue recognition policies, we rec ognize revenue after we receive the preliminary inspection certificate for our standalone service contracts and for the portion attributable to the provision of integrated services for our bundled sale contracts. Accordingly, we typically recognize higher levels of revenue during the second and third quarter than that of the first quarter, because more wireless coverage products are installed and inspected, and for which completion and preliminary inspection certificates are issued, during the second and the third quarter. During the fourth quarter, especially in December, our major customers, being public companies and influenced by their semi-annual reporting obligations, usually perform completion and preliminary inspections, issue completion and preliminary inspection certificates and sign contracts for a majority of our standalone service contracts and bundled sale contracts. Therefore, we typically recognize the highest level of revenue during the fourth quarter. Nevertheless, as we recognize our revenue from the sale of equipment when delivery has occurred and the customer has signed a contract with us and issued a delivery certificate to us under our standalone equipment contracts, our increased sales of equipment on a standalone basis following the implementation of the centralized billing process has slightly reduced the effect of seasonality on our business. Whether we continue to have fluctuations in revenues, gross profit margins and earnings in the future will depend largely upon our customers, over which we have very little control. Past quarterly results, therefore, may not provide an accurate indication of future performance or fluctuation. Such fluctuation may have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. We may fail to offer products that meet industry standards or our customers’ specific requirements, and as a result we may lose customers or orders or incur significant warranty or other costs, and our revenue growth may be materially and adversely affected. The development of our products is based upon complex technologies, and requires significant time and expertise in order to meet industry standards and customers’ specifications. Our customers often have their own sets of standards and criteria relating to their requirements for wireless coverage products, including standards and criteria issued by the relevant governmental authorities. We must satisfy these standards and criteria in order to be eligible to supply our products and services to those customers. If we are unable to continue to meet these standards and criteria, we may become ineligible to provide our products and services that have in the past generated most of our revenues and profitability. Furthermore, quality and performance problems could damage our reputation and our relationships with existing and prospective cu stomers and could have a material and adverse effect on our revenue growth. We customarily provide our customers with one to three years of warranty protection, under which we agree to repair or replace defectively installed wireless coverage products at no additional cost to our customers. Our contracts generally do not contain disclaimers or limitations on product liabilities for special, consequential and incidental damages, nor do we typically cap the amounts our customers may recover for damages. In addition, we do not currently maintain any insurance for product liability or warranty claims. Our failure to offer products and services that meet our customers’ specific requirements could give rise to substantial liabilities under our warranties and otherwise. Our research and development efforts may not lead to successful development of commercially viable or acceptable products, which could cause a decline in customer use of our products. The markets in which we compete are characterized by: · Rapidly changing technology; · Evolving industry standards and transmission protocols; · Frequent improvements in products and services; and · Intense competition from well-funded and technologically advanced companies. 13 To succeed, we must continually improve our current products and develop and introduce new or enhanced products that adequately address the requirements of our customers and are competitive in terms of functionality, performance, quality and price. We expend considerable efforts in the development of new and enhanced RF technology, WFDS™ technology and in their commercial applications, including the development of 3G products and base station RF components. Although we have successfully developed products that meet customers’ requirements in the past, there is no assurance that any of our research and development efforts will necessarily lead to any new or enhanced products or generate sufficient market share to justify commercialization. For example, 3G is a new and evolving technology. Our research and development efforts ma y not yield new wireless coverage products that are readily deployable in 3G networks and that our customers may not be satisfied with the performance of our 3G coverage products. Under those circumstances, we will not be able to recoup our research and development costs and expenses, we may not be able to serve our customers’ 3G needs, and customers may refuse to use our products. We face intense competition. The market for access-network solutions services is intensely competitive in the People’s Republic of China and is characterized by rapid technological advancement, frequent development of new products, evolving industry standards and a downward pricing trend over the life cycle of a product. There are numerous other access-network service providers with whom we compete for business. There are low barriers to entry for new competitors in our market and our business may experience a negative impact as a result of increased competition. In addition, our existing or potential competitors may in the future achieve greater market acceptance and gain additional market share or may develop new technology that may make our product less competitive, which in turn could reduce our revenues and operations. We depend on key personnel for the success of our business. Our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives and employees or fail to add new senior and middle managers to our management. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executives, particularly Han Daqing, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Guobin Pan, our President, and Yu Xiaoli, our Chief Financial Officer. Our future success is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified senior and middle managers to our management team. If one or more of our current or future key executives and employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them, and our business may be severely disrupted. In addition, if any of these key executives or employees joins a competitor or forms a competing comp any, we could lose customers and suppliers and incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us. We also rely on a number of key technology staff for the operation of our Company. The wireless coverage industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility. Competition in China for experienced RF technology experts is intense. There are few senior-level research and development or technical personnel available for hire as the costs of hiring and retaining such individuals are high, and such personnel may not remain with us once hired. If we are unable to successfully attract or retain senior-level research and development employees, our ability to develop new technologies and products and to effectively conduct our operations could be compromised and our ability to carry on our research and development and other efforts could be materially and adversely affected. Rapid growth and a rapidly changing operating environment may strain our limited resources. We will need to increase our investment in our technology infrastructure, facilities and other areas of operations, in particular our product development, in order to facilitate our growth. If we are unable to manage our growth and expansion effectively, the quality of our products and services, and in turn, our customer support, could deteriorate and our business and results of operations may suffer. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to: · continue to develop through our research and development facilities new technologies acceptable to the PRC market; · continue training, motivating and retaining our existing employees and attract and integrate new employees, including our senior management; · develop and improve our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls; and · maintain adequate controls and procedures to ensure that our periodic public disclosure under applicable laws, including U.S. securities laws, is complete and accurate. 14 Current economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers and others with which we do business to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our business, financial condition and results of operations have and may continue to be affected by various economic factors. The worldwide economy recently underwent a period of slowdown and the future economic environment may continue to be less favorable than that of recent years. This slowdown has, and could further lead to, reduced consumer and business spending in the foreseeable future, including by our customers. Reduced access to credit has and may continue to adversely affect the ability of consumers to purchase our products and system solutions. In addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, suppliers and other service providers. If such conditions continue or furthe r deteriorate, our industry, business and results of operations may be severely impacted. We have limited experience in operating outside mainland China, and failure to expand internationally may have an adverse effect on our business growth in the future. Our future growth primarily depends on our ability to increase our market share domestically by effectively utilizing our competitive advantages. However, we also intend to increase our international presence and expand our customer base internationally. We currently have six sales offices outside of China. While we currently generate less than 5% of our revenue from overseas, we expect the international market, especially the U.S., will represent a significant growth opportunity for us in the future. However, we have limited experience in operating outside mainland China or with foreign regulatory environments and market practices, and we may not be able to penetrate these international markets. Our failure to grow in international markets may have an adverse effect on our business growth in the future. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, and we may be exposed to infringement claims by third parties. We rely primarily on a combination of intellectual property laws and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. Monitoring unauthorized use of our information services is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we take will effectively prevent misappropriation of our technology and content. Our management may determine in the future to register for patents, copyrights, trademarks or trade secret protection if management determines that such protection would be beneficial and cost-effective. From time to time, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and may ultimately be unsuccessful. In addition, parties may initiate litigation against us for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. In the event of a successful claim of infringement and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology, content or license the infringed or similar technology or content on a timely basis, our business could suffer. Moreover, even if we are able to license the infringed or similar technology or content, license fees that we pay to licensors could be substantial or uneconomical. We have limited business insurance coverage, and any significant product liability claim could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition. The insurance industry in the PRC is still at an early stage of development. We currently do not maintain any product liability insurance for our products and services, nor do we carry any business interruption insurance, third-party liability insurance for personal injuries, or environmental damage insurance for environmental emissions or accidents on our properties or relating to our operations. There is no assurance that there will not be any product liability claims against us in relation to our products. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will not experience any major accidents in the course of our operations, which may cause significant property or environmental damage or personal injuries. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. 15 If we fail to develop and maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud; as a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in the integrity of our financial reports, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide timely disclosure of material events affecting our business and reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires management to establish and maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting and annual reports on Form 10-K filed under the Exchange Act to contain a report from management assessing the effectiveness of a company's internal control over financial reporting. Separately, under Section 404, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, public companies that are large accelerated or accelerated filers must include in their annual reports on Form 10-K an attestation report of their regular auditors attesting to and reporting on management’ ;s assessment of internal control over financial reporting. Non-accelerated filers and smaller reporting companies are not required to include an attestation report of their auditors in annual reports. The process of strengthening our internal controls and complying with Section 404 is expensive and time consuming, and requires significant management attention. During the assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2010, our management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective due to control weaknesses and control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting (for details see Item 9A herein). Although we have developed certain remediation plans, which we anticipate will be completed during 2011, we cannot be certain that these measures we have undertaken will ensure that we will maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Furthermore, if we are able to rapidly grow our business, the internal controls that we will need may become more complex, and significantly more resources may be required to ensure our internal controls remain effective. Failure to implement required controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we fail to execute our remediation plans, our stockholders and other potential investors may lose confidence in our business operations and the integrity of our financia l statements, and may be discouraged from future investments in our company, which may delay or hinder any future business development or expansion plans if we are unable to raise funds in future financings, and our current stockholders may choose to dispose of the shares of common stock they own in our company, which could have a negative impact on our stock price. In the event we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which may also lead to a decline in our stock price. In the future, we expect that we likely will become an accelerated filer. Accordingly, we expect that we will be required to include an attestation report of our auditors in our annual report on Form 10-K. If and when we become subject to the auditor attestation requirements under Section 404, we can provide no assurance that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors. In addition, non-compliance with Section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including the suspension of trading of our stock on the NASDAQ Select Global Select Market, ineligibility for listing on other national securities exchanges, and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which could further reduce our stock price. We must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Chinese anti-corruption law. Since we are a Delaware corporation and a public company in the United States, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The PRC also strictly prohibits bribery of government officials. Our principal customers, the Big 3, are partially owned by the PRC government and our dealings with them are likely to be considered to be with government officials for purposes of these laws. We do not condone bribery on the part of our employees, agents, representatives and consultants. Our employees, agents, representatives and consultants may not always be subject to our control. If any of them violates FCPA or other anti-corruption law, we might be held responsi ble. We could suffer severe penalties in that event. In addition, the U.S. government may seek to hold us liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or which we acquire. Non-U.S. companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions. If these competitors engage in these practices, they may receive preferential treatment from some companies or other entities to our disadvantage. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA A downturn in the Chinese economy may slow down our growth and profitability. The growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors. There can be no assurance that growth of the Chinese economy will be steady or that any downturn will not have a negative effect on our business. Our profitability will decrease if expenditures for wireless services decrease due to a downturn in the Chinese economy. In addition, increased penetration of wireless services in the less economically developed central and western provinces of the PRC will depend on those provinces achieving certain income levels, so that mobile phones and related services become affordable to a significant portion of the population. 16 Government regulation of the telecommunications industry may become more complex. Government regulation of the telecommunications industry is highly complex. New regulations could increase our costs of doing business and prevent us from efficiently delivering our services. These regulations may stop or slow down the expansion of our user base and limit the access to our services. Our ability to generate revenues could suffer if the Chinese market for access-network solutions services does not develop as anticipated. The wireless services market in the PRC has evolved rapidly over the last several years, with the introduction of new services, development of consumer preferences, market entry by new competitors and adaptation of strategies by existing competitors. We expect each of these trends to continue, and we must continue to adapt our strategy to successfully compete in our market. In particular, we currently offer a wide range of access-network solutions services; however, there are no assurances that any of these technologies and any services compatible with them will be accepted by consumers or promoted by the mobile operators. Accordingly, it is extremely difficult to accurately predict consumer acceptance and demand for various existing and potential new offerings and services, and the future size, composition and growth of this market. Our ability to compete on a nationwide scale may be impaired due to state-owned competitors. Although we believe our strongest competitors are other privately held Chinese companies, we face direct competition with telecommunications companies which are either state-owned or state-run. In certain circumstances, these state-owned competitors may receive preferential treatment, particularly in the awarding of governmental contracts. The uncertain legal environment in China could limit the legal protections available to you. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which precedents set in earlier legal cases are not legally binding. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has been to enhance the protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly and their interpretation and enforcement involves uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, such as the right of foreign invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as requisite business licenses. In addition, all of our executive officers and our directors are residents of China, and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the U.S. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to effect service of process in the U.S., or to enforce a judgment obtained in the U.S. against us or any of these persons. Moreover, the enforceability of contracts in China, especially with governmental entities, is relatively uncertain. If counterparties repudiated our contracts or defaulted on their obligations, we might not have adequate remedies. Such uncertainties or inability to enforce our contracts could materially and adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could impede the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and damage our business. We conduct substantially all of our operations and generate most of our revenue in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · a higher level of government involvement; · an early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy; · a rapid growth rate; 17 · a higher level of control over foreign exchange; and · the control over the allocation of resources. As the PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, the PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Although these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling the payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. Any adverse change in economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and services and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively or to pay dividends in U.S. Dollars. Because almost all of our future revenues may be in the form of RMB, any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any future business activities outside the PRC or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. Dollars. Under current PRC laws and regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and operation-related expenditures, may be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from SAFE, but are subject to procedural requirements including presenting relevant documentary evidence of such transactions and conducting such transactions at designated foreign exchange banks within China that have the licenses to carry out foreign exchange business. Strict foreign exchange control continues to apply to capital account transaction s. These transactions must be approved by or registered with SAFE, and repayment of loan principal, direct capital investment and investment in negotiable instruments are also subject to restrictions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet all of our foreign currency obligations or to remit profits out of China. If future changes in relevant regulations were to place restrictions on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to remit dividend payments to us, our liquidity and ability to satisfy our third-party payment obligations, and our ability to distribute dividends, could be materially adversely affected. Further, restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi for capital account transactions could also affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make investment overseas or to obtain foreign exchange funds through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contribution from us. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of these jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, inclu ding any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties. Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and as low as -2.2%. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. While inflation has been more moderate since 1995, high inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. 18 Cessation of the preferential treatment of income tax may have an adverse impact on our net income. China passed a new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law (the “EIT Law”) and its implementing rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. The EIT Law imposes a unified enterprise income tax rate of 25% on all domestic enterprises and foreign-invested enterprises unless they qualify under certain limited exceptions. Under the EIT Law and it implementing rules, companies established before March 16, 2007 and had enjoyed preferential tax rates previously shall gradually become subject to the 25% rate over a five-year transition period, and enterprises that were established before March 16, 2007 and were eligible for preferential tax exemptions or reductions within the specified time under the then effective laws and regulations will continue to enjoy the original preferential tax exemptions or redu ctions until the expiration of the specified terms, except that the relevant exemption or reduction shall start from the year of 2008 if the first profitable year of the relevant enterprise is later than January 1, 2008. Certain qualified high-technology enterprises may still enjoy a preferential tax rate of 15%. Currently, our PRC subsidiaries, Beijing Telestone and BTWTC, are specified as “high-technology enterprises” are eligible for the preferential tax rate of 15. If its PRC subsidiaries cease to qualify as “high-technology enterprises,” our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may be deemed as a PRC resident enterprise under the EIT Law and be subject us to PRC income tax for our global income and withholding income tax for any dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders on profits earned after January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law, enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and will generally be subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to their global income. Under the Implementation Rules for the EIT Law, “de facto management bodies” is defined as the bodies that have material and overall management control over the business operations, personnel, accounts, and properties of the an enterprise. In April 2009, the PRC State Administration of Taxation (the “SAT”) promulgated a circular to clarify the criteria to determine whether the “de facto management bodies” are located within the PRC for enterprises incorporated overseas with controlling shareholders being PRC enterprises. The EIT Law and its Implementation Rules are relatively new and ambiguities exist with respect to the interpretation of the provisions relating to resident enterprise issues. As substantially all of our management is currently based in China and may remain in China in the future, we may be treated as a PRC resident enterprise for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. If we are deemed as a PRC resident enterprise, we will be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on our worldwide income. In that case, however, dividend income we receive from our PRC subsidiaries may be exempt from PRC enterprise income tax because the EIT Law and its Implementation Rules generally provide that dividends received by a PRC resident enterprise from its directly invested entity that is also a PRC resident enterprise is exempt from enterprise inc ome tax. However, as there is still uncertainty as to how the EIT Law and its Implementation Rules will be interpreted and implemented, we cannot assure you that we are eligible for such PRC enterprise income tax exemptions or reductions. We are a holding company that relies heavily on dividend payments from our subsidiary for funding. The PRC laws require that dividends be paid only out of the net profit calculated according to the generally accepted accounting principles in the PRC, which differ from the generally accepted accounting principles in other jurisdictions. The PRC laws also require foreign-invested or domestic-funded enterprises to set aside part of their net profit as statutory reserves. These statutory reserves are not available for distribution as cash dividends. As a result, our ability to pay dividends will be restricted by the prevailing PRC laws. In addition, we are incorporated in Delaware and hold interests in our subsidiaries in the PRC through Success Million International Limited, a Hong Kong incorporated company. Under the EIT Law, if a foreign entity is deemed to be a “non-resident enterprise” as defined under the EIT Law and its Implementation Rules and (i) it has no establishment or premise in the PRC, or (ii) it has an establishment or premise in the PRC, but its income sourced within the PRC has no real connection with such establishment or premise, a withholding tax at the rate of 10% will be applicable to any dividends for earnings of its PRC subsidiaries accumulated since January 1, 2008 payable to the foreign entity, unless it is entitled to reduction or elimination of such tax, including by tax treaties or agreements. According to the double taxati on avoidance arrangement between the PRC and Hong Kong, dividends paid by a foreign-invested enterprise, such as Beijing Telestone, in the PRC to its shareholder(s) incorporated in Hong Kong, such as Success Million International Limited, may be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 5% if the Hong Kong company directly holds 25% or more interest in the PRC enterprise. Under Circular 124 issued by the SAT on August 24, 2009 and effective on October 1, 2009, a non-resident enterprise needs to obtain approval from the competent local branch of the SAT in order to enjoy the preferential withholding tax rate on dividends under tax treaties. In addition, the SAT issued Circular 601 on October 27, 2009, which addresses which entities are treated as “beneficial owners” eligible for tax benefits under the tax treaties on dividends, interest and royalties. According to Circular 601, the PRC tax authorities must evaluate whether an applicant (income recipient) qualifies as a “beneficial owner” on a case-by-case basis based on the “substance over form” principle. It is possible, based on these principles, that the PRC tax authorities would not consider our Hong Kong subsidiary Success Million International Limited as the “beneficial owner” of any dividends paid from our PRC subsidiary Beijing Telestone and thus would deny the claim for the reduced rate of withholding tax. Under the current PRC tax law, this would result in dividends from Beijing Telestone to Success Million International Limited being subject to PRC withholding tax at a 10% rate instead of a 5% rate. This would negatively impact us and it would impact our ability to receive more net dividends. 19 Gains on the sales of our Shares by foreign investors and dividends on our Shares payable to foreign investors may become subject to PRC income taxes Under the EIT Law and its Implementation Rules, any gain realized by “non-resident enterprises” is subject to 10% withholding tax to the extent such gain is sourced within the PRC and (i) such “nonresident enterprise” has no establishment or premise in the PRC, or (ii) it has an establishment or premise in the PRC, but its income sourced within the PRC has no real connection with such establishment or premise, unless otherwise exempted or reduced by tax treaties. The EIT Law and its Implementation Rules are relatively new and ambiguities exist with respect to the interpretation of the provisions relating to identification of PRC-sourced income. If we are recognized as a PRC resident enterprise under the EIT Law by the PRC tax authorities, we may be required to withhold PRC income tax on capital gains realized from sales of our Shares by and dividends distributed to our shareholders that are “non-resident enterprises,” as such income may be regarded as income from “sources within the PRC.” In such case, our foreign shareholders that are “non-resident enterprises” may become subject to a 10% withholding income tax under the EIT Law, unless any such foreign shareholder is qualified for a preferential withholding rate or tax exemption under a tax treaty or tax law. Failure to comply with the SAFE regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may adversely affect our business operations. In October 2005, SAFE issued a circular concerning foreign exchange regulations on investments by PRC residents in China through special purpose companies incorporated overseas, or the SAFE Circular No 75. The circular states that, if PRC residents use assets or equity interests in their domestic entities as capital contribution to establish offshore companies or inject assets or equity interests of their PRC entities into offshore companies to raise capital overseas, such PRC residents must register with local SAFE branches with respect to their overseas investments in offshore companies and must also file amendments to their registrations if their offshore companies experience material events, such as changes in share capital, share transfer, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions or use of assets in China to guarantee off shore obligations. The SAFE subsequently issued relevant guidance with respect to the operational process for the SAFE registration under the SAFE Circular No. 75, which standardized more specific and stringent supervision on the registration relating to the SAFE Circular No. 75 and imposed obligations on onshore subsidiaries of overseas special purpose companies to coordinate with and supervise the beneficial owners of such overseas special purpose companies who are PRC residents to complete the SAFE registration process. Mr. Han Daqing, a PRC resident and one of the beneficial owners of the Company, has not completed the relevant registration procedures pursuant to the SAFE Circular No. 75. Failure of our beneficial owners who are PRC residents to make their SAFE registrations or timely amend their SAFE registrations pursuant to the SAFE Circular No. 75 may subject the beneficial owners or our PRC subsidiaries to fines and legal sanctions, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends, repay foreign loans or make other outbound payments, limit our ability to make capital contributions, or foreign exchange-denominated loans to our PRC subsidiaries or other inbound payments or otherwise adversely affect our business operations. Failure to comply with PRC regulations in respect of the registration of our PRC citizen employees’ shares or share options may subject such employees or us to fines and legal or administrative sanctions. Pursuant to the Implementation Rules of the Administration Measure for Individual Foreign Exchange issued by SAFE on January 5, 2007 and Operation Rules on the Foreign Exchange Administration of the Participation of Domestic Individuals in Overseas Listed Companies’ Employee Stock Ownership Plans and Share Option Schemes issued by SAFE on March 28, 2007, PRC citizens who are granted shares or share options by an overseas listed company under its employee share option or share incentive plan are required, through the PRC subsidiary of such overseas listed company or other qualified PRC agents, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures related to the share option or other share incentive plan. Foreign exchange income from the sale of shares or dividends distributed by the overseas listed company may be remitted into a foreign currency account of such PRC citizen or be exchange into RMB. In addition, the overseas listed company or its PRC subsidiary or other qualified PRC agent is required to appoint an asset manager or administrator, appoint a custodian bank and open dedicated foreign currency accounts to handle transactions relating to the share option scheme or other share incentive plan. Our Company and its PRC citizen employees who will be granted share options will be subject to these rules. If our Company or our PRC citizen employees fail to comply with these rules in the future, our Company or our PRC citizen employees may be subject to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 20 PRC laws and regulations governing our businesses and the validity of certain of our contractual arrangements are uncertain. If we are found to be in violation of such PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to sanctions. In addition, changes in such PRC laws and regulations may materially and adversely affect our business. Various regulations in China currently restrict or prevent foreign-invested entities from engaging in certain sectors. Because of these restrictions, certain of our operations in the PRC, namely the wireless telecommunication networking and system integration businesses, are conducted through our VIE, BTWTC, a PRC company that is owned by PRC citizens, but which is effectively controlled by our subsidiary, Beijing Telestone, through a series of contractual arrangements. A circular issued by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (“MIIT”) in July 2006, or the MIIT circular, reiterated the regulations on foreign investment in telecommunications businesses. Under this circular, a domestic company that holds a license to conduct any value-added telecommunications business in China, is prohibited from leasing, transferring or selling the license to foreign investors in any form, and from providing any assistance, including providing resources, sites or facilities, to foreign investors to conduct value-added telecommunications businesses illegally in China. In addition, all value-added telecommunications service providers are required to maintain network and information security in accordance with the standards set forth under relevant PRC regulations. Due to a lack of interpretative m aterials from the regulators, it is uncertain whether MIIT would consider our corporate structures and contractual arrangements as a kind of foreign investment in telecommunication services. Therefore, it is unclear what impact this circular will have on us or the other Chinese telecommunications companies that have adopted the same or similar corporate structures and there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements with our VIE, BTWTC, and its shareholders. In addition, new laws and regulations that affect our existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. Therefore, we cannot assure you that these contractual arrangements would not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws or regulation. If we are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, including the MIIT circular, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including levying fines, confiscating our income, revoking BTWTC’s business or operating licenses, requiring us to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations, and requiring us to discontinue all or any portion of our operations, or taking other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. Any of these actions could significantly disrupt our business operations or restrict us from conducting a substantial portion of our business operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on contractual arrangements with our VIE and its subsidiaries and its shareholders for certain of our China based operations, which may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership, or as effective in enabling us to derive economic benefits as through ownership of a controlling equity interest. We rely on contractual arrangements with our VIE and its shareholders to operate our businesses. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with control over our VIE as direct ownership. If we had direct ownership of these entities, we would be able to exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the boards of directors of our VIE, which in turn could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. However, if our VIE or its shareholders fails to perform its or his respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to enforce the relevant agreements if the agreements are ruled in violation of the PRC laws as mentioned above. We may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce them, and seek legal remedies under PRC law, including specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which may not be effective. Accordingly, it may be difficult for us to change our corporate structure or to bring claims against our VIE if it does not perform its obligations under its contracts with us. Many of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert effective control over our VIE, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. 21 The beneficial owners of Beijing Telestone Wireless Telecommunications Company Limited may have potential conflicts of interest with us. Conflicts of interests between the beneficial owners of our VIE and our company may arise. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, any or all of these individuals will act in the best interests of our company or that any conflict of interest will be resolved in our favor. In addition, these individuals may breach or cause our VIE to breach or refuse to renew the existing contractual arrangements, which will have a material adverse effect on our ability to effectively control our VIE and receive economic benefits from it. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and the beneficial owners of our VIE, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, the outcome of which would be uncertain and which could be disruptive to our business. A significant part of our revenues are generated through our VIE, and we rely on payments made by our VIE to Beijing Telestone, our subsidiary, pursuant to contractual arrangements to transfer any such revenues. Any restriction on such payments and any increase in the amount of PRC taxes applicable to such payments may materially and adversely affect our business and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We conduct substantially all of our operations through BTWTC, our VIE, which generates a significant part of our revenues. As our VIE is not owned by our subsidiaries, it is not able to make dividend payments to our subsidiaries. Instead, Beijing Telestone, our subsidiary in China, entered into a number of contracts with our VIE pursuant to which our VIE pays Beijing Telestone, Ltd. for certain services. However, depending on the nature of services provided, certain of these payments are subject to PRC taxes at different rates, including business taxes and VATs, which effectively reduce the amount that Beijing Telestone, Ltd. receives from our VIE. We cannot assure you that the PRC government will not impose restrictions on such payments or change the tax rates applicable to such payments. Any such restrictions on such payment or increases in the applicable tax rates may materially and adversely affect our ability to receive payments from our VIE or the amount of such payments, and may in turn materially and adversely affect our business, our net income and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We have not yet completed registration our pledge rights over the equity interests of BTWTC held by its shareholders. We cannot guarantee that no third-party will be able to register its right before we complete the registration. Such third-party registration may result in inadequate protection of our rights against any third-party to whom the shareholders might re-pledge their equity interests. Our contractual arrangements with BTWTC include equity pledge agreement pursuant to which the shareholders of BTWTC have pledged their equity interests in BTWTC to Beijing Telestone as security for the performance of BTWTC’s obligations under the Exclusive Business Cooperation Agreement. We intend to register the pledge rights with the relevant local administration for industry and commerce. According to the Property Rights Law, which became effective on October 1, 2007, after the effective date of our equity pledge agreements, pledge rights for a pledge of equity are created at the time of registration of the pledge with the relevant administration for industry and commerce. While the aforesaid equity pledge agreement were legally binding and valid under the then-applicable PRC laws and regulations when such agreements were en tered into, currently it is unclear whether the Property Rights Law would have retroactive effect, due to the lack of relevant interpretation and implementation of such law. We may need to register our existing pledges with the relevant administration for industry and commerce, if so required by the future interpretation and implementation and plan to do so in the near future, before any bona fide third party could register its pledge rights in order to protect our pledge rights against any third party to whom the shareholders might re-pledge their equity interests. Although we are in the process of registering our equity pledge, we cannot assure you that we will be able to have our equity pledge registration processed by the relevant administration for industry and commerce before any third party would be able to complete the registration. SAFE rules and regulations may limit our ability to transfer the net proceeds from any offering of securities to our VIE in the PRC, which may adversely affect the business expansion of the VIE, and we may not be able to convert the net proceeds from any offering into RMB to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies, or establish other affiliates in the PRC. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. The notice requires that the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies. The use of such Renminbi capital may not be changed without SAFE’s approval, and may not in any case be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans hav e not been used. Violations of Circular 142 will result in severe penalties, such as heavy fines. As a result, Circular 142 may significantly limit our ability to transfer the net proceeds from any securities offering to our VIE through our subsidiary in the PRC, which may adversely affect the business expansion of our VIE, and we may not be able to convert the net proceeds from any securities offering into Renminbi to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies, or establish other VIEs in the PRC. 22 Our primary source of funds for dividends and other distributions from our operating subsidiary in China is subject to various legal and contractual restrictions and uncertainties, and our ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to our shareholders is negatively affected by those restrictions and uncertainties. Current PRC regulations permit our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. However, our PRC subsidiaries are required under PRC laws and regulations to allocate a portion of their annual after-tax profits, if any, to certain statutory reserves and funds prior to declaring and remitting dividends. For example, our PRC subsidiaries are required to allocate at least 10% of their after-tax profits to statutory reserves until such reserves reach 50% of their respective registered capital. Allocations to these statutory reserves and funds can be used only for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances or cash dividends. As a result, our PRC subsidiaries are restricted in their ability to tra nsfer a portion of their net assets to us. The payment for our acquisition of Beijing Telestone Technologies Co., Ltd. may be challenged by PRC regulators. We acquired all of the shares of Beijing Telestone Technologies Co., Ltd. (“Beijing Telestone”) in 2004 through SMI by paying the sellers shares of the Company. According to the then effective PRC regulations, using shares as payment for the acquisition of a PRC domestic company should be approved by SAFE or its local branch. We have not applied to and obtained SAFE's approval for the payment of our acquisition of Beijing Telestone. Although the PRC law does not provide any explicit legal consequences for such a non-compliance act and such non-compliance act has not been challenged by SAFE or any other authorities so far, we cannot assure you that it will not be challenged by SAFE or any other authorities in the future. If the legality of the payment of consideration for the acquisition was challenged by SAFE or any other authorities, it may impose fines and legal sanctions on us or restrict our foreign exchange activities. In that case, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The fluctuation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect your investment. The value of the Renminbi is subject to changes in PRC government policies and depends to a large extent on China’s domestic and international economic, financial and political developments, as well as the currency’s supply and demand in the local market. For over a decade from 1994, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including the U.S. Dollar, was based on exchange rates set and published daily by the People’s Bank of China, the PRC central bank. The official exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi into U.S. Dollars remained stable until Renminbi was revalued in July 2005 and allowed to fluctuate by reference to a basket of foreign currencies, including the U.S. Dollar. Under the new policy, Renminbi was to be permitted to fluctuate within a band against a basket of foreign currencies. As a re sult, as of March 24, 2011, the Renminbi has appreciated approximately 21% against the U.S. Dollar since July 2005. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a substantially more liberalized currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation in the value of Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar. Further revaluations of Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar may also occur in the future. Since our income and profits are denominated in Renminbi, any appreciation of Renminbi would increase the value of, and any dividends payable on, our shares in foreign currency terms. Conversely, any depreciation of Renminbi would decrease the value of, and any dividends payable on, our shares in foreign currency terms. In addition, we have U.S. Dollar-denominated bank deposits in our offshore bank account, which is subject to PRC foreign exchange control regulations and could not be exchanged into Renminbi freely, any appreciation of Renminbi could adversel y affect the value of our U.S. Dollar-denominated bank deposits. Any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, (“SARS”), or another widespread public health problem, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. A renewed outbreak of influenza A (H1N1), avian flu, SARS or another widespread public health problem in the PRC, where all of our revenue is derived, and in Beijing where our operations are headquartered, could have a negative effect on our operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including the following: · Quarantines or closures of some of our offices which would severely disrupt our operations; 23 · The sickness or death of our key officers and employees; and · A general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited. All of our subsidiaries are incorporated in non-U.S. jurisdictions, we conduct substantially all of our operations in China, and all of our officers reside outside the United States. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our wholly owned subsidiaries in China. All of our officers reside outside the United States and some or all of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in China in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the PRC may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. As a result of all of the above, our public stockholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major stockholders than would stockholders of a corporation doing business entirely within the United States. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SHARES The market price for our common stock is volatile. The market price for our common stock is highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: · Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · Announcements of new products and services by us or our competitors; · Changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · Changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies providing similar products and services; · Announcements by our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · Additions or departures of key personnel; · Potential litigation; · Conditions in the markets in which we operate; or · Weak liquidity. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The value of our securities will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. Dollars and Renminbi. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. Dollars and Renminbi. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. Dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs and should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. Dollar at that time, our financial position and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. Dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes and the U.S. Dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. Dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in the PRC would be reduced. 24 Stockholders could experience substantial dilution. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock to raise additional cash for working capital or for other purposes. If we issue additional shares of our capital stock, our stockholders will experience dilution in their respective percentage ownership in the company and may experience dilution in the value of their shares. We have no present intention to pay dividends. We have never paid dividends or made other cash distributions on our common stock, and do not expect to declare or pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain future earnings, if any, for working capital and to finance current operations and expansion of our business. A large portion of our common stock is controlled by a small number of stockholders. A large portion of our common stock is held by a small number of stockholders. As of March 28, 2011, our directors and officers collectively owned approximately 27.25% of the company’s outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders are able to influence the outcome of stockholder votes on various matters, including the election of directors and extraordinary corporate transactions including business combinations. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material and adverse effect on the market price of the common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market prices for their shares of common stock. In addition, t he occurrence of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, may affect our stock price and could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. Furthermore, the current ratios of ownership of our common stock reduce the public float and liquidity of our common stock which can in turn affect the market price of our common stock. The limited prior public market and trading market may cause volatility in the market price of our common stock. Our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “TSTC.” The quotation of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market currently exists, and in recent years such market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of many smaller companies like us. Our common stock is thus subject to volatility. In the absence of an active trading market: · investors may have difficulty buying and selling or obtaining market quotations; · market visibility for our common stock may be limited; and · a lack of visibility for our common stock may have a depressive effect on the market for our common stock. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, as the future sale of a substantial amount of our restricted stock in the public marketplace could reduce the price of our common stock. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act (“Rule 144”), subject to certain limitations. Under the 2008 amendments to Rule 144, a person who has beneficially owned restricted shares of our common stock or warrants for at least six months would be entitled to sell their securities provided that (i) such person is not deemed to have been one of our affiliates at the time of, or at any time during the three months preceding, a sale and (ii) we are subject to the Exchange Act periodic reporting requirements for at least three months before the sale. Persons who have beneficially owned restricted shares of our common stock or warrants for at least six months but who are our affiliates at the time of, or at any time during the three months preceding, a sale, would be subject to additional restrictions, by which such person would be entitled to sell within any three-month period only a number of securities that does not exceed the greater of either of the following: 25 · 1% of the total number of securities of the same class then outstanding; or · the average weekly trading volume of such securities during the four calendar weeks preceding the filing of a notice on Form 144 with respect to the sale; · provided, in each case, that we are subject to the Exchange Act periodic reporting requirements for at least three months before the sale; and · such sales both by affiliates and by non-affiliates must also comply with the manner of sale, current public information and notice provisions of Rule 144. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 