ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FUTURE RESULTS, FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION AND CERTAIN IMPORTANT FACTORS In this Annual Report we make, and from time to time we otherwise make, written and oral statements regarding our business and prospects, such as projections of future performance, statements of management’s plans and objectives, forecasts of market trends, and other matters that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Statements containing the words or phrases “will likely result,” “are expected to,” “will continue,” “is anticipated,” “estimates,” “projects,” “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “target,” “goal,” “plans,” “objective,” “should” or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which may appear in documents, reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, written or oral presentations made by officers or other representatives made by us to analysts, stockholders, investors, news organizations and others, and discussions with management and other of our representatives. For such statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 10 Our future results, including results related to forward-looking statements, involve a number of risks and uncertainties. No assurance can be given that the results reflected in any forward-looking statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made. Our forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions that are sometimes based upon estimates, data, communications and other information from suppliers, government agencies and other sources that may be subject to revision. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update or keep current either (i) any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of such statement, or (ii) the important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or which are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. In addition to other matters identified or described by us from time to time in filings with the SEC, there are several important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or results that are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. Some of these important factors, but not necessarily all important factors, include the following: Current economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers and others with which we do business to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our business, financial condition and results of operations have and may continue to be affected by various economic factors. The worldwide economy is undergoing a period of slowdown and the future economic environment may continue to be less favorable than that of recent years. This slowdown has, and could further lead to, reduced consumer and business spending in the foreseeable future, including by our customers. Reduced access to credit has and may continue to adversely affect the ability of consumers to purchase our products and system solutions. In addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, suppliers and other service providers. If such conditions continue or further deteriorate, our industry, business and results of operations may be severely impacted. We rely on a small number of significant customers Our success depends substantially upon retaining our significant clients, such as China Unicom and China Mobile. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain long-term relationships or secure renewals of short-term relationships with our significant clients in the future. If we were to lose such customers, it is unclear if we would be able to replace them or how long it would take to do so. Accordingly, our revenues and profitability would be negatively impacted. We incur a high level of fixed costs. We incur a high level of fixed costs related to our business. These fixed costs result from significant investments in our research and development and fixed assets. The loss of any one of our significant customers could leave us with a significantly higher level of fixed costs than is necessary to serve our remaining customers, thereby reducing our revenues, profitability and cash flow. We have not entered into any long term contracts with our customers. All of our agreements with our customers are for short term projects or sales of equipment. While we feel that our significant relationships with China Unicom and China Mobile will likely provide additional sales agreements in the future, none of our customers are contractually bound to purchase any products or services from us in the future. 11 We dependence on a limited number of suppliers. We rely on certain suppliers to provide us various pieces of telecommunications equipment. If we were to lose our relationship with those suppliers, we may experience difficulties finding a suitable replacement for our equipment needs. We face intense competition. The market for wireless coverage solutions services is intensely competitive in the PRC. There are other wireless coverage service providers which we compete with for business. There are low barriers to entry for new competitors in this market and we may experience a negative impact as a result of increased competition. In addition, our existing or potential competitors may in the future achieve greater market acceptance and gain additional market share, which in turn could reduce our revenues. We rely on a third party production center. We utilize a third party production center for the manufacture of the products we sell to our customers. We are parties to a memorandum of cooperation regarding such manufacturing arrangement, however we cannot be assured that such cooperation will continue indefinitely. Should we be required to utilize a different source for our manufactured products our costs could be negatively affected. Rapid growth and a rapidly changing operating environment may strain our limited resources. We will need to increase our investment in our technology infrastructure, facilities and other areas of operations, in particular our product development. If we are unable to manage our growth and expansion effectively, the quality of our products and services, and in turn, our customer support could deteriorate and our business may suffer. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to: · continue to develop through our research and development facilities new technologies acceptable to the PRC market; · continue training, motivating and retaining our existing employees and attract and integrate new employees, including our senior management, most of whom have been with our Company for less than one year; · develop and improve our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls; and · maintain adequate controls and procedures to ensure that our periodic public disclosure under applicable laws, including U.S. securities laws, is complete and accurate. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, and we may be exposed to infringement claims by third parties. We rely on contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Monitoring unauthorized use of our information services is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we take will effectively prevent misappropriation of our technology and content. Our management may determine in the future to make application for copyright, trademark or trade secret protection if management determines that such protection would be beneficial and cost-effective. 12 From time to time, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. In addition, third parties may initiate litigation against us for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. In the event of a successful claim of infringement and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology, content or license the infringed or similar technology or content on a timely basis, our business could suffer. Moreover, even if we are able to license the infringed or similar technology or content, license fees that we pay to licensors could be substantial or uneconomical. We have limited business insurance coverage. The insurance industry in the PRC is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in the PRC offer limited business insurance products, and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability insurance coverage for our operations. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. A downturn in the Chinese economy may slow down our growth and profitability. The growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors. There can be no assurance that growth of the Chinese economy will be steady or that any downturn will not have a negative effect on our business. Our profitability will decrease if expenditures for wireless services decrease due to a downturn in the Chinese economy. More specifically, increased penetration of wireless services in the less economically developed central and western provinces of the PRC will depend on those provinces achieving certain income levels, so that mobile phones and related services become affordable to a significant portion of the population. Government regulation of the telecommunications industry may become more complex. Government regulation of the telecommunications industry is highly complex. New regulations could increase our costs of doing business and prevent us from efficiently delivering our services. These regulations may stop or slow down the expansion of our user base and limit the access to our services. The uncertain legal environment in China could limit the legal protections available to you. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In the late 1970s, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in the PRC. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, such as the right of foreign invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as requisite business licenses. Changes in the PRC’s political and economic policies could harm our business. The economy of the PRC has historically been a planned economy subject to governmental plans and quotas and has, in certain aspects, been transitioning to a more market-oriented economy. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the PRC, we cannot predict the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. In addition, the Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the “OECD”). These differences include: ¨ Economic structure; 13 ¨ Level of government involvement in the economy; ¨ Level of development; ¨ Level of capital reinvestment; ¨ Control of foreign exchange; ¨ Methods of allocating resources; and ¨ Balance of payments position. As a result of these differences, our business may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Because almost all of our future revenues may be in the form of RMB, any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any future business activities outside the PRC or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily, the restriction that foreign invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies, after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of RMB for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in the PRC, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. The value of our securities will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for our operational needs and should the RMB appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the RMB, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in the PRC would be reduced. The market price for our common stock is volatile. The market price for our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: ¨ Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; ¨ Announcements of new products and services by us or our competitors; ¨ Changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; ¨ Changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies providing similar products and services; ¨ Announcements by our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; 14 ¨ Additions or departures of key personnel; ¨ Potential litigation; or ¨ Conditions in the mobile phone market. ¨ Weak liquidity, a fragile stock price/the stock price is low, lack the financing capability In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Stockholders could experience substantial dilution. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock to raise additional cash for working capital. If we issue additional shares of our capital stock, our stockholders will experience dilution in their respective percentage ownership in the company. We have no present intention to pay dividends. We have never paid dividends or made other cash distributions on our common stock, and do not expect to declare or pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain future earnings, if any, for working capital and to finance current operations and expansion of our business. A large portion of our common stock is controlled by a small number of stockholders. A large portion of our common stock is held by a small number of stockholders. As of March 27, 2009, our directors and officers collectively owned 38.81 % of the company’s outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders are able to influence the outcome of stockholder votes on various matters, including the election of directors and extraordinary corporate transactions including business combinations. In addition, the occurrence of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, may affect our stock price and could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. Furthermore, the current ratios of ownership of our common stock reduce the public float and liquidity of our common stock which can in turn affect the market price of our common stock. 