Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly-traded securities. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations will likely suffer. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Some of the statements in this Item 1A are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-looking Statements” on page 1. We have described the risk factors in the following related groups: • risks related to government regulation of our business; • other risks related to our business; • risks related to our governance and stock exchange listing; and • risks related to our debt. 24 Risks Related to Government Regulation of Our Business Changes in the rates or methods of third-party reimbursements for diagnostic imaging services could result in reduced demand for our services or create downward pricing pressure, which could cause our revenues to decline and harm our financial position. We derived approximately 21% of our 2011 revenues from direct billings to patients and third-party payors such as Medicare, Medicaid or private health insurance companies. Changes in the rates or methods of reimbursement for the services we provide could have a significant negative effect on those revenues. Moreover, our healthcare provider clients on whom we depend for the majority of our revenues generally rely on reimbursement from third-party payors. If we or our clients receive decreased reimbursements as a result of various governmental efforts to reduce heathcare costs as described in detail in Item 1, Business—Regulation and—Reimbursement, these decreases could result in a reduced demand for our services or downward pricing pressures, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. With respect to our retail business, for services for which we bill Medicare directly, we are paid under the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule, which is updated on an annual basis. Under the Medicare statutory formula, payments under the Physician Fee Schedule would have decreased for the past several years if Congress had failed to intervene. In the past, when the application of the statutory formula resulted in lower payment, Congress has passed interim legislation to prevent the reductions in payments. If Congress fails to intervene as it has done in the past to prevent the implementation of payment reductions through either another temporary measure or a permanent revision to the statutory formula, the resulting decrease in payment will adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We cannot predict the individual and collective effect on our business of the changes described above, but they could negatively affect parts of our business or our entire operations, which could harm our financial performance and condition. Complying with federal and state regulations is an expensive and time-consuming process, and any failure to comply could result in substantial penalties. We are directly or indirectly through our clients subject to extensive regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business, including the federal Anti-Kickback Law and similar state anti-kickback laws, the Stark Law and similar state laws affecting physician referrals, the federal False Claims Act, HIPAA, as amended by the HITECH Act, and similar state laws addressing privacy and security, state unlawful practice of medicine and fee splitting laws, state certificate of need laws, the Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, and requirements for handling biohazardous and radioactive materials and wastes. Both federal and state government agencies have heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of healthcare companies, as well as their executives and managers. These investigations relate to a wide variety of matters, including referral and billing practices. The OIG and the DOJ have, from time to time, established national enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. Some of our activities could become the subject of governmental investigations or inquiries. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws and regulations to which we or our clients are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines or curtailment of our operations, individually or in the aggregate, could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Our risk of being found in violation of these laws and regulations is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their 25 provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert management’s attention from the operation of our business. For a more detailed discussion of the various state and federal regulations to which we are subject, see Item 1, Business—Regulation,—Reimbursement and—Environmental, Health and Safety Laws. Federal and state anti-kickback and anti-self-referral laws may adversely affect our operations and income. Various federal and state laws govern financial arrangements among health care providers. The federal Anti-Kickback Law prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral of Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare program patients, or in return for, or to induce, the purchase, lease or order of items or services that are covered by Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs. Many state laws also prohibit the solicitation, payment or receipt of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral of patients in private as well as government programs. Violation of these laws may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties and/or exclusion from participation in federal or state healthcare programs. We believe that we are operating in compliance with applicable laws and believe that our arrangements with providers would not be found to violate the federal and state anti-kickback laws. However, these laws could be interpreted in a manner that could have an adverse effect on our operations. The Stark Law prohibits a physician from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to any entity for certain designated health services (including MRI and other diagnostic imaging services) if the physician has a prohibited financial relationship with that entity, unless an exception applies. Although we believe that our operations do not violate the Stark Law, our activities may be challenged. If a challenge to our activities is successful, it could have an adverse effect on our operations. In addition, legislation may be enacted in the future that further addresses Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse or that imposes additional requirements or burdens on us. A number of states in which our diagnostic imaging centers are located have adopted a form of anti-kickback law and/or Stark Law. The scope of these laws and the interpretations of them vary from state to state and are enforced by state courts and regulatory authorities, each with broad discretion. A determination of liability under the laws described in this risk factor could result in fines and penalties and restrictions on our ability to operate in these jurisdictions. In addition, under the DRA, states are encouraged to adopt false claims acts, similar to the federal False Claims Act, which establish liability for submission of fraudulent claims to the State Medicaid program and contain qui tam or whistleblower provisions. States enacting such false claims statutes will receive an increased percentage of any recovery from a State Medicaid judgment or settlement. Adoption of new false claims statutes in states where we operate may impose additional requirements or burdens on us. Healthcare reform legislation and regulations could adversely affect our operations or limit the prices we can charge for our services, which would reduce our revenues and harm our operating results. In addition to extensive existing government healthcare regulation, there have been and continue to be numerous initiatives at the federal and state levels for reforms affecting the payment for and availability of healthcare services, including proposals that would significantly limit reimbursement under the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Limitations on reimbursement amounts and other cost containment pressures have in the past resulted in a decrease in the revenue we receive for each scan we perform. 26 The application or repeal of state certificate of need regulations could harm our business and financial results. Some states require a CON or similar regulatory approval prior to the acquisition of high-cost capital items, including diagnostic imaging systems or provision of diagnostic imaging services by us or our clients. Twenty-one of the 46 states in which we operate require a CON, and more states may adopt similar licensure frameworks in the future. In many cases, a limited number of these certificates are available in a given state. If we are unable to obtain the applicable certificate or approval or additional certificates or approvals necessary to expand our operations, these regulations may limit or preclude our operations in the relevant jurisdictions. Conversely, states in which we have obtained a CON may repeal existing CON regulations or liberalize exemptions from the regulations. For example, Pennsylvania, Nebraska, New York, Ohio and Tennessee have liberalized exemptions from CON programs. The repeal of CON regulations in states in which we have obtained a CON or CON exemption would lower barriers to entry for competition in those states and could adversely affect our business. If we fail to comply with various licensure, certification and accreditation standards, we may be subject to loss of licensure, certification or accreditation, which would adversely affect our operations. All of the states in which we operate require the imaging technologists who operate our computed tomography, single photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography systems to be licensed or certified. Also, each of our retail sites must continue to meet various requirements to receive payments from the Medicare program. In addition, we are currently accredited by The Joint Commission, an independent, non-profit organization that accredits various types of healthcare providers such as hospitals, nursing homes and providers of diagnostic imaging services. In the healthcare industry, various types of organizations are accredited to meet certain Medicare certification requirements, expedite third-party payments and fulfill state licensure requirements. Some managed care providers prefer to contract with accredited organizations. Any lapse in our licenses, certifications or accreditations or those of our technologists, or the failure of any of our retail sites to satisfy the necessary requirements under Medicare could adversely affect our operations and financial results. We cannot predict the full extent of the PPACA on our business, and its effects may harm our financial performance and our stockholder value. The healthcare reform law substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers. Although certain provisions may negatively affect payment rates for certain imaging services, the PPACA also extends coverage to approximately 32 million previously uninsured people, which may result in an increase in the demand for our services. A number of state governors have strenuously opposed the mandatory purchase of insurance, known as the individual mandate, and have initiated lawsuits challenging the constitutionality of certain provisions of the PPACA. Many of these challenges are still pending final adjudication in several jurisdictions, including the United States Supreme Court. Congress has also proposed a number of legislative initiatives, including possible repeal of the PPACA. It remains unclear whether there will be any changes made to the PPACA. Moreover, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the PPACA was enacted. Automatic cuts to several government programs could become effective and, with respect to Medicare, would include aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013. The full effect on our business of the PPACA and new legislation is uncertain. It is unclear whether other legislative changes, if any, will be adopted, or how those changes would affect the demand for our services. 27 Changes in healthcare rules driven by federal budget priorities may adversely affect our operations and revenues, both directly and indirectly. On February 20, 2012, President Obama released his proposed budget for fiscal year 2013. The proposed budget included a number of proposals relating to the operations and expenditures of DHHS and, in particular, CMS. Although it is unclear whether any major healthcare policy initiatives will be accomplished during an election year, President Obama proposes (a) to update Medicare payments to more appropriately account for utilization of advanced diagnostic imaging (which includes MRI, CT and PET/CT diagnostic services); and (b) to establish a prior authorization program for advance diagnostic imaging. Although President Obama’s 2013 budget contains no details regarding how Medicare payment systems may be adjusted to take utilization into consideration, it is possible that CMS may propose additional reimbursement cuts to diagnostic imaging as part of the annual Medicare Physician Fee Schedule updates that are typically proposed later in the year and effective as of the first day of the following year. At this point, we do not have sufficient information to evaluate what, if any, Medicare reimbursement changes will be proposed to address utilization issues associated with advanced diagnostic imaging. President Obama has previously proposed a prior authorization program for advanced diagnostic imaging on several occasions, but Congress has not adopted these proposals into law. The traditional Medicare fee-for-service program does not have a prior authorization program in place for advanced diagnostic imaging, and Medicare beneficiaries may receive diagnostic tests based upon physician orders and appropriate medical necessity. It is likely that any prior authorization program, other than a limited demonstration program, would require Congressional action to implement. We are not able to predict whether Congress will consider and adopt such proposals, the timeframe for implementing such a system in the Medicare program if such proposals were adopted into law, or the potential effect on our diagnostic imaging business if those proposals were adopted into law. President Obama’s 2013 budget contains no specific proposals with respect to cancer treatment or radiation therapy services. Future adjustments, if any, to Medicare’s reimbursement rates for cancer treatment and radiation therapy occur annually as part of CMS’s update to the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule. These changes, whether due to President Obama’s proposals or otherwise, could include provisions that would cause our operations to be more expensive or reduce our revenues and thereby have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and condition. Other Risks Related to Our Business Our MRI and PET/CT scan volumes were lower in 2011 than in 2010, and a continued decline in the volumes could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our services and/or our future revenues. We believe the reductions we experienced in our 2011 MRI and PET/CT scan volumes resulted from high unemployment rates, the number of under-insured or uninsured patients, the reported decline in physician office visits, hospitals adding imaging services to enhance hospital profitability and other conditions arising from the global economic conditions described below. We believe that MRI and PET/CT scan revenues from our shared-service operations will continue to decline in future periods. If we are unable to arrest and reverse these declines, our financial performance and condition will suffer. We experience competition from other medical diagnostic and radiation oncology companies and equipment manufacturers, and this competition could adversely affect our revenues and our business. The market for diagnostic imaging and radiation oncology services and systems is competitive. In addition to direct competition from other imaging and radiation oncology providers, we compete with independent imaging centers and referring physicians with diagnostic imaging systems in their own offices, as well as with OEMs that aggressively sell or lease imaging or RO systems to healthcare providers for full-time installation. Some of our competitors may now or in the future have access to greater resources than we do or may be less burdened with debt. If we are unable to compete successfully with this diverse group of competitors, particularly if overall MRI usage continues to decline, our client base will decline and our business and financial condition will suffer. 28 Our revenues may fluctuate or be unpredictable, which may adversely affect our financial results. The amount and timing of revenues that we may derive from our business will fluctuate based on: • the effects of governmental laws, regulations and reimbursement policies on payments to us and to third-party payors; • variations in the rate at which our clients renew their contracts with us; • the extent to which our mobile shared-service clients become full-time clients; • competitive factors; • trends in healthcare treatment and reimbursement by government and private insurance; • overall revenue trends; • changes in the number of days of service we can offer with respect to a given system due to equipment malfunctions or the seasonal factors discussed below; • the mix of wholesale and retail billing for our services; and • the overall United States economy and the economy in the particular areas where we provide our services. In addition, we experience seasonality in the sale of our services. First and fourth quarter revenues are typically lower than those from the second and third quarters. First quarter revenues are affected primarily by inclement weather, typically resulting in fewer patients being scanned or treated during the period. Fourth quarter revenues are affected by holiday and client and patient vacation schedules, resulting in fewer scans or treatments during the period. Due to the fixed nature of our costs, the variability in margins is higher than the variability in revenues. As a result, our revenues may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, and our quarterly results have been and may in the future be below market expectations. We also experience fluctuations in revenues due to general economic conditions, including recession or economic slowdown. We may not be able to reduce our expenses, including our debt service obligations, quickly enough to respond to these declines in revenue, which would make our business difficult to operate and would harm our financial results. We may be unable to renew or maintain our client contracts, which would harm our business and financial results. When our clients’ contracts with us expire, those clients may cease using our imaging services and purchase or lease their own imaging systems or use our competitors’ imaging systems. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we experienced a modest increase in the rate of contract terminations partially due to stepped up marketing, sales and attractive financing alternatives offered by OEMs to our clients. Some of our clients can exercise early termination clauses and otherwise discontinue service before maturity. As a result of these and other factors, our MRI revenues for 2011 declined compared to 2010 levels. If our clients do not renew or maintain their contracts as we expect, our business will suffer. It is not always possible to obtain replacement clients quickly. Historically, many replacement clients have been smaller facilities that have a lower number of scans and generate less revenue than the clients we lost. We also run the risk of being unable to renew or maintain our client contracts in our Radiation Oncology Division. Pressure to control healthcare costs could have a negative effect on our results. One of the principal objectives of managed care organizations, such as health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations, is to control the cost of healthcare services. Healthcare providers participating in managed care plans may be influenced to refer patients seeking imaging services or radiation therapy to certain providers depending on the plan in which a covered patient is enrolled. The expansion of health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations and other managed care organizations within the 29 geographic areas we cover could have a negative effect on the utilization and pricing of our services, because these organizations may exert greater control over patients’ access to services of the type we offer, the selections of the provider of those services and reimbursement rates for those services. We may be unable to maintain our imaging and radiation oncology systems effectively or generate revenue when our systems are not working. Timely, effective service is essential to maintaining our reputation and high utilization rates on our imaging and radiation oncology systems. Repairs to one of our systems can take up to two weeks and result in a loss of revenue. Our warranties and maintenance contracts do not fully compensate us for loss of revenue when our systems are not working. The principal components of our cost of revenues include depreciation; amortization; compensation paid to technologists, therapists, drivers and other clinical staff; system maintenance costs; insurance; medical supplies; system transportation; technologists’ travel costs; and professional costs related to the delivery of radiation therapy and professional radiology interpretation services. Because the majority of these expenses are fixed, a reduction in the number of scans or treatments performed due to out-of-service equipment will result in lower revenues and margins. Equipment manufacturers repair our equipment, and they may not be able to perform repairs or supply needed parts in a timely manner. Therefore, if we experience greater than anticipated system malfunctions or if we are unable to promptly obtain the service necessary to keep our systems functioning effectively, our revenues could decline and our ability to provide services would be harmed. Harsh weather conditions may limit our ability to maximize the utilization of our diagnostic imaging equipment, which may reduce our revenue. Harsh weather conditions can adversely affect our operations and financial condition. To the extent severe weather patterns affect the regions in which we operate, potential patients may find it difficult to travel to our centers and we may have difficulty moving our mobile systems along their scheduled routes. As a result, we could experience a decrease in equipment utilization, scan volume and revenues during that period. Natural disasters could adversely affect our business and operations. Our corporate headquarters is located in California and we currently operate in various geographic regions across 46 states. Consequently, we are subject to varying risks for natural disaster, including hurricanes, blizzards, floods, earthquakes and tornados. Depending on its severity, a natural disaster could damage our facilities and systems or prevent potential patients from traveling to our centers. Damage to our equipment or any interruption in our business would adversely affect our financial condition and could result in the loss of the capital invested in the damaged facilities or systems or anticipated future cash flows from those facilities or imaging systems. Adverse changes in general domestic and worldwide economic conditions and instability and disruption of credit markets could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition or liquidity. We are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions, including recession or economic slowdown and disruption of credit markets. Recent global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging, with tighter credit conditions and recession in most major economies that have continued into 2012. Ongoing concerns about the systemic effect of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the United States mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the United States have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for the United States economy. In August 2011, Standard & Poors downgraded the credit rating of the United States Federal government and Moody’s Investor Services placed the credit rating of the United States Federal government on negative watch for possible downgrading. In addition, significant concerns have arisen regarding potential defaults by several European countries, including Greece, and the effects that those defaults may have on European and worldwide banking systems and economies. These 30 conditions, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence, increased unemployment, increased tax rates and governmental budget deficits and debt levels have contributed to volatility of unprecedented levels in our business. We believe our MRI and PET/CT scan volumes were reduced during 2011 by high unemployment rates, the number of under-insured or uninsured patients, the reported decline in physician office visits, hospitals adding imaging services to enhance hospital profitability and other conditions arising from the global economic conditions described above. We cannot quantify the effect these conditions might have on our future revenues or business, although we believe that MRI scans will continue to decline in 2012. If we are unable to arrest and reverse these declines, our financial performance and condition will suffer. As a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases cease to provide, funding to borrowers. Continued turbulence in the United States and international markets and economies may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers. If these market conditions continue, they may limit our ability to timely access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, resulting in adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not receive payment from some of our healthcare provider clients because of their financial circumstances. Some of our healthcare provider clients do not have significant financial resources, liquidity or access to capital. If these clients experience financial difficulties, they may be unable to pay us for the equipment and services that we provide. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, write-offs of accounts receivables from healthcare provider clients that become insolvent, file for bankruptcy or are otherwise unable to pay amounts owed to us. A significant deterioration in general or local economic conditions could have a material adverse affect on the financial health of some of our healthcare provider clients. As a result, we may have to increase the amounts of accounts receivables that we write-off, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Technological change in our industry could reduce the demand for our services and require us to incur significant costs to upgrade our equipment. We operate in a competitive, capital intensive and high fixed-cost industry. The development of new technologies or refinements of existing ones might make our existing systems technologically or economically obsolete, or reduce the need for our systems. Numerous companies currently manufacture MRI, PET and PET/CT, radiation oncology and other diagnostic imaging systems. Competition among manufacturers for a greater share of the MRI, PET and PET/CT and other diagnostic imaging systems market has resulted in and likely will continue to result in technological advances in the speed and imaging capacity of these new systems, including the new ultra-high field MRI systems and 256-slice CT systems. Consequently, the obsolescence of our systems may be accelerated. Should new technological advances occur, we may not be able to acquire the new or improved systems. In the future, to the extent we are unable to generate sufficient cash from our operations or obtain additional funds through bank financing or the issuance of equity or debt securities, we may be unable to maintain a competitive equipment base. In addition, advancing technology may enable hospitals, physicians or other diagnostic service providers to perform procedures without the assistance of diagnostic service providers such as ourselves. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our competitive position in our targeted regions or expand our business. 31 Because a high percentage of our operating expenses are fixed, a relatively small decrease in revenues could have a significant negative effect on our financial results. A high percentage of our expenses are fixed, meaning they do not vary significantly with the increase or decrease in revenues. Those expenses include debt service and capital lease payments, rent payments, payroll, maintenance, insurance and vehicle operation costs. As a result, a relatively small reduction in the prices we charge for our services or in our procedure volumes could have a disproportionate negative effect on our financial results. We may be subject to professional liability risks, which could be costly and could negatively affect our business and financial results. We may be subject to professional liability claims. There is a risk of harm to a patient during an MRI if the patient has certain types of metal implants or cardiac pacemakers within his or her body. Although patients are screened to safeguard against this risk, screening may nevertheless fail to identify the hazard. In response to recent press reports concerning the risk of significant, sometimes fatal, errors in radiation therapy, especially relating to linear radiation, accreditation of facilities and the establishment of a national error reporting database are under consideration. In addition, various trade organizations have called for quality improvement measures and the establishment of the nation’s first central database for the reporting of errors involving linear particle accelerators and CT scanners. Federal legislation in these areas is under consideration and a Congressional hearing was held in February 2010. We are not aware of any actions taken after the hearing. In addition, on September 29, 2010, California enacted a law that will require hospitals and clinics to record radiation doses for CT scans, effective July 1, 2012, and to report any overdoses to patients, their doctors and the California Department of Public Health. Effective July 1, 2013, the new California law will also require all facilities that furnish CT services to be accredited by an organization approved by CMS, the Medical Board of California or the California Department of Public Health. We cannot assure you that the cost of complying with any new regulations will not be substantive, that the negative publicity concerning these errors will not adversely affect our business, or that these types of errors will not occur with our services. We maintain professional liability insurance with coverage that we believe is consistent with industry practice and appropriate in light of the risks attendant to our business. Nevertheless, any claim made against us could be costly to defend against, result in a substantial damage award against us and divert the attention of our management from our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. It is also possible that our insurance coverage will not continue to be available at acceptable costs or on favorable terms. Loss of key executives and failure to attract qualified managers and sales persons could limit our growth and negatively affect our operations. We depend upon our management team to a substantial extent. In particular, we depend upon Mr. Viviano, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors, for his skills, experience and knowledge of our company and industry contacts. We do not have key employee insurance policies covering any of our management team. The loss of Mr. Viviano or other members of our management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We require field managers and sales persons with experience in our industry to operate and sell our services for diagnostic imaging and radiation oncology. We cannot predict the availability of qualified field managers and sales persons or the compensation levels that will be required to hire and retain them. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management or our inability to hire qualified field managers and sales persons at compensation levels that are economically reasonable to us could adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business. Many of the states in which we operate do not enforce agreements that prohibit a former employee from competing with a former employer. As a result, many of our employees whose employment is terminated are free 32 to compete with us, subject to prohibitions on the use of confidential information and, depending on the terms of the employee’s employment agreement, on solicitation of existing employees and customers. A former executive, field or sales manager or other key employee who joins one of our competitors could use the relationships he or she established while our employee and the industry knowledge he or she acquired during that tenure to enhance the new employer’s ability to compete with us. Loss of, and failure to attract, qualified employees, technologists and other clinical staff could limit our growth and negatively affect our operations. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in our industry for qualified employees is intense. In particular, there is a very high demand for qualified technologists who are necessary to operate our systems, particularly PET and PET/CT technologists. We may not be able to hire and retain a sufficient number of technologists, therapists, physicists and dosimetrists, and we expect that our costs for the salaries and benefits of these employees will continue to increase for the foreseeable future because of the industry’s competitive demand for their services. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. Our PET and PET/CT services and some of our other imaging services require the use of radioactive materials, which could subject us to regulation-related costs and delays and potential liabilities for injuries or violations of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Our PET and PET/CT services and some of our other imaging services require radioactive materials. While these radioactive materials have a short half-life—meaning it quickly breaks down into inert or non-radioactive substances—storage, transportation, use and disposal of these materials present the risk of accidental environmental contamination and physical injury. We are subject to federal, state and local regulations governing storage, transportation, handling and disposal of these materials and waste products. In spite of our safety procedures for storing, transporting, handling and disposing of these hazardous materials, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from those hazardous materials. We maintain professional liability insurance with coverage that we believe is consistent with industry practice and appropriate in light of the risks attendant to our business. In the event of an accident, however, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the coverage of our insurance. We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, or at all. We could incur significant costs and the diversion of our management’s attention to comply with current or future environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We may not be able to achieve the expected benefits from future acquisitions, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results. We have historically relied on acquisitions as a method of expanding our business. In addition, we will consider future acquisitions as opportunities arise and our financial performance permits. If we do not successfully integrate acquisitions, we may not realize anticipated operating advantages and cost savings. The integration of companies that have previously operated separately involves a number of risks, including: • demands on management related to the increase in our size after an acquisition; • the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations; • difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees; • potential adverse effects on operating results; and • challenges in retaining clients. 33 We may not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency that acquired companies have achieved or might achieve separately. Successful integration of each of their operations will depend upon our ability to manage those operations and to eliminate redundant and excess costs. Because of difficulties in combining operations, we may not be able to achieve the cost savings and other size-related benefits that we hoped to achieve after these acquisitions, which would harm our financial condition and operating results. High fuel costs can harm our operations and financial performance. Fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our mobile operating expenses, through diesel fuel for our tractor fleet and mileage reimbursement for our technologists. Historically, fuel costs have been subject to wide price fluctuations based on geopolitical issues and supply and demand. Fuel availability is also affected by demand for home heating oil, diesel, gasoline and other petroleum products, as well as overall economic conditions. Because of the effect of these events on the price and availability of fuel, we cannot predict the cost and future availability of fuel with any degree of certainty. In the event of a fuel supply shortage or further increases in fuel prices, we might be forced to curtail our scheduled mobile services. There have been significant increases in fuel costs recently, and continued high fuel costs or further increases will harm our financial condition and results of operations. Insurance costs and claims expenses could adversely affect our earnings. The transportation aspect of our business is exposed to costs for claims related to property damage claims by others; personal injury; damage to our mobile systems resulting from accidents, vandalism or theft; and workers’ compensation. We carry insurance to minimize these exposures. Insurance costs have varied over the past five years, reflecting the level of our operations, the insurance environment for our industry, our claim experience and our self-retained (deductible) level. We are also responsible for claim expenses within our self-retained (deductible) levels for liability and workers’ compensation claims. We maintain insurance to cover claims and expense in excess of our deductible levels with insurance companies that we consider financially sound. Although we believe our aggregate insurance limits are sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed those limits and adversely affect our operating results. If the number or severity of claims within our deductible levels increases, or if we are required to accrue or pay additional amounts because the claims prove to be more severe than our original assessment, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our transportation operations are regulated, and failure to comply or increased costs of compliance with existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The transportation aspect of our business is subject to legislative and regulatory changes that can affect our operations and financial performance. Our trucking operations and those of the trucking companies and independent contractors with whom we engage are subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation, or DOT, and various state, local, and foreign governmental agencies, which govern such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, handling of hazardous materials, safety ratings, insurance requirements, vehicle weight and size, and emissions restrictions. We are also periodically audited by the DOT and other state and federal authorities to ensure that we comply with safety, required licenses, hours-of-service, clean truck regulations, and other rules and regulations. New governmental laws and regulations, or changes to existing laws and regulations, could affect our transportation operations. Any additional measures that may be required by future laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations may require us to make changes to our operating practices and may result in additional costs which, if we are unable to pass through to our clients, could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. 34 Risks Related to Our Governance and Stock Exchange Listing Funds managed by Oaktree Capital Management, LLC and MTS Health Investors, LLC beneficially own the majority of our outstanding shares of common stock and are therefore able to exert significant influence over us, including with respect to change of control transactions. As of December 31, 2011, funds managed by Oaktree Capital Management, LLC and MTS Health Investors, LLC (collectively, the “Investor Parties”) beneficially owned approximately 51.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock. So long as they beneficially own at least 35% of our outstanding shares of common stock, the Investor Parties will have the right to designate three of the members of our board of directors. As a result of their ownership of our common stock and their right to designate three directors, the Investor Parties have the ability to exert significant influence on our management and operations, as well as control the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including approving mergers, consolidations or sales of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and advisory votes, including advisory votes related to our executive pay practices and appointment of independent registered auditors. This concentration of ownership and voting power may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger, consolidation, sale of assets or other similar transaction that involves a third party. Because of the equity ownership of the Investor Parties, we are considered a “controlled company” for purposes of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) listing requirements. As such, we are exempt from the requirement that the majority of our board of directors meet the standards of independence established by the NYSE and we are exempt from the requirement that we have separate Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees comprised entirely of directors who meet those independence standards. Although we do not currently intend to rely upon the exemption available for controlled companies, we may choose to use the exemption at any time that we remain a controlled company. The NYSE independence standards are intended to ensure that directors who meet the independence standards are free of any conflicting interest with management that could influence their actions as directors. It is possible that the interests of the Investor Parties may in some circumstances conflict with our interests or the interests of our other stockholders. Possible volatility in our stock price could negatively affect us and our stockholders. The trading price of our common stock on the NYSE has fluctuated significantly in the past. During the period from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011, the trading price of our common stock fluctuated from a high of $9.79 per share to a low of $0.93 per share. In the past, we have experienced a drop in stock price following an announcement of disappointing earnings or earnings guidance, most recently in August 2011. Any such announcement in the future could lead to a similar drop in stock price. The price of our common stock could also be subject to wide fluctuations in the future as a result of a number of other factors, including the following: • changes in expectations as to future financial performance or buy/sell recommendations of securities analysts; • our, or a competitor’s, announcement of new products or services, or significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; and • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies. In addition, the securities markets in the United States have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of companies in these markets. Broad market and industry factors may lead to volatility in the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Moreover, our stock has limited trading volume, and this illiquidity may increase the volatility of our stock price. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of an individual company’s securities, securities class action litigation often has been instituted against that company. The institution of similar 35 litigation against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. If we do not meet the New York Stock Exchange continued listing standards, the NYSE may delist our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the NYSE, which imposes continued listing requirements with respect to listed shares. On September 28, 2011, the NYSE notified us that we had fallen below compliance with Section 802.01B(II)(ii) of the NYSE Listed Company Manual, which requires that our average global market capitalization not be less than $75.0 million over any consecutive 30 trading-day period. We submitted a plan to the NYSE that demonstrated our ability to regain compliance within 18 months. On December 2, 2011, we received notice that the NYSE had accepted our plan for continuing listing and, under that plan, the NYSE has granted us an 18-month extension until March 28, 2013 to regain compliance with the NYSE continued listing standards. Our shares of common stock will continue to be listed and traded on the NYSE during the cure period, subject to our compliance with other NYSE continued listing standards. We are subject to ongoing monitoring by the NYSE for compliance with this plan and are required to submit quarterly reports, concurrent with our corresponding periodic SEC filings, to the NYSE regarding our progress toward our plan. Our failure to comply with the plan, including the quarterly reviews; to regain compliance with the market capitalization continued listing standard by the end of the 18-month period; or to maintain compliance with any other continued listing standard could result in the NYSE delisting our common stock. A delisting of our common stock and our inability to list the stock on another national securities exchange could: • reduce the liquidity and market price of our common stock; • reduce the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively affect our ability to raise equity financing; • limit our ability to use a registration statement to offer and sell freely tradable securities, thereby preventing us from accessing the public capital markets; • impair our ability to provide equity incentives to our employees; and • result in the loss of confidence by investors, suppliers and employees. Any one or more of these effects could damage our business and harm our financial performance and condition. Provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our organizational documents may discourage an acquisition of us. In the future, we could become the subject of an unsolicited takeover attempt. Although an unsolicited takeover could be in the best interests of our stockholders, our organizational documents and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware both contain provisions that will impede the removal of directors and may discourage another party from making a proposal to acquire us. For example, the provisions: • permit the board of directors to increase its own size and fill the resulting vacancies; • provide for a board composed of three classes of directors with each class serving a staggered three-year term; • authorize the issuance of additional shares of preferred stock in one or more series without a stockholder vote; and • establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to the board of directors. 36 Moreover, these provisions can only be amended by the vote of 66 2/3% or more of our outstanding shares entitled to vote. Furthermore, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Risks Related to Our Debt Our substantial debt could restrict our operations and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2011, we had $643.5 million of outstanding debt, excluding letters of credit, and approximately $64.8 million was available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility. Our substantial debt could have important consequences for our stockholders. For example, it requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions and for other general corporate purposes. In addition, our debt could: • increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and competitive pressures in our industry; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt in relation to cash flow; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all. Our credit agreement and the indenture governing our notes contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional debt and engage in business activities and requirements that we maintain specified financial ratios. If we cannot comply with these covenants, we may be in default under these agreements. The indenture governing the notes and our credit agreement contain affirmative and negative covenants that restrict, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional debt; • sell assets; • create liens or other encumbrances; • make certain payments and dividends; or • merge or consolidate. In addition, we are required under our credit agreement to maintain specified financial ratios. On September 27, 2011, we entered into an amendment to our credit agreement pursuant to which we modified the financial covenants to provide us with greater flexibility for the next two years. Under the amended credit agreement, we are required to maintain (a) a maximum ratio of consolidated total debt to Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, as defined in the credit agreement, of 5.25 to 1.00 through June 30, 2012, 5.00 to 1.00 from July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013 and 4.00 to 1.00 thereafter, and (b) a minimum ratio of Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense of 2.25 to 1.00 through December 31, 2012, 2.50 to 1.00 from January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2014 and 2.75 to 1.00 thereafter. As of December 31, 2011, our ratio of consolidated total debt to Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA was 4.44 to 1.00 and our ratio of Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense was 3.28 to 1.00. If we are not able to improve our financial ratios prior to the expiration of this amendment, or if our financial ratios continue to worsen, we may be in default under our credit agreement. All of these restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. A failure to comply with these covenants and 37 restrictions would permit the relevant creditors to declare all amounts borrowed under the relevant borrowing, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable. If the debt under the credit facility or the notes is accelerated, we may not have sufficient assets to repay amounts due under the credit facility, the notes or on other debt then outstanding. If we are unable to refinance our debt, we could become subject to bankruptcy proceedings, and you may lose all or a portion of your investment because the claims of certain of our creditors on our assets are prior to the claims of holders of the notes. If there is a default under the agreements governing our material debt, the value of our assets may not be sufficient to repay our creditors. Our property and equipment, which make up a significant portion of our tangible assets, had a net book value of $291.3 million as of December 31, 2011 and $311.7 million as of December 31, 2010. The book value of these assets should not be relied on as a measure of realizable value for such assets. The realizable value may be lower than net book value. The value of our assets in the event of liquidation will depend upon market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and similar factors. A sale of these assets in a bankruptcy or similar proceeding would likely be made under duress, which would reduce the amounts recovered. Furthermore, such a sale could occur when other companies in our industry also are distressed, which might increase the supply of similar assets and further reduce the amounts that recovered. Our goodwill and other intangible assets had a net book value of $199.5 million as of December 31, 2011 and $287.7 million as of December 31, 2010. These assets primarily consist of the excess of the acquisition cost over the fair market value of the net assets acquired in purchase transactions, customer contracts and costs to obtain certificates of need. The value of goodwill and other intangible assets will continue to depend significantly upon the success of our business as a going concern and the growth in future cash flows. As a result, in the event of a default under the agreements governing our material debt or any bankruptcy or dissolution, the realizable value of these assets will likely be substantially lower and may be insufficient to satisfy the claims of our creditors. The financial condition of our assets will likely deteriorate during any period of financial distress preceding a sale of our assets. In addition, much of our assets consist of illiquid assets that may have to be sold at a substantial discount in an insolvency situation. Accordingly, the proceeds of any such sale of our assets may not be sufficient to satisfy, and may be substantially less than, amounts due to our creditors. Despite current debt levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which could increase the risks described above. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future. The terms of our new credit facility and the indenture governing the notes permit us or our subsidiaries to incur additional debt, subject to certain restrictions. Further, the new credit facility and the indenture governing the notes allow our subsidiaries to incur debt, all of which would be structurally senior to the notes. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, our new credit facility permitted additional borrowings of up to approximately $64.8 million under our new revolving credit facility subject to the covenants contained in our new credit facility, and all of those borrowings would be senior to the notes to the extent of the assets securing the new credit facility. If we add new debt to our or our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the risks discussed above could intensify. If we are unable to generate or borrow sufficient cash to make payments on our debt or to refinance our debt on acceptable terms when it matures, our financial condition would be materially harmed, our business could fail and you may lose all of your investment. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our obligations at maturity will depend on our financial and operating performance, which will be affected by economic, financial, competitive, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. As a result of the recent global market and economic conditions, the cost and availability of credit and equity capital have been severely affected. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we 38 are unable to meet our debt obligations or fund our other liquidity needs, we may need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity or sell certain of our assets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to restructure or refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, which could cause us to default on our debt obligations and impair our liquidity. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition. An increase in prevailing interest rates would have an effect on the interest rates charged on our variable rate debt, which rise and fall upon changes in interest rates. As of December 31, 2011, approximately $424.0 million of our debt was at variable interest rates. If prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates, the increased interest expense would adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our debt. If interest rates are higher when our debt becomes due, we may be forced to borrow at the higher rates. As a protection against rising interest rates, we may enter into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate exchange contracts. These agreements, however, carry the risks that the other parties to the agreements may not perform or that the agreements could be unenforceable. In the first quarter of 2010, we entered into three interest rate cap agreements to avoid unplanned volatility in the income statement due to changes in the LIBOR interest rate environment. These agreements, which mature in February 2014, have a total notional amount of $150.0 million and were designated as cash flow hedges of future cash interest payments associated with a portion of our variable rate bank debt. Under these arrangements, we have purchased a cap on LIBOR at 4.50%. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 