ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Various sections of this annual report contain forward-looking statements, all of which are based on current expectations and could be affected by the uncertainties and risk factors described below and throughout this annual report. Our actual results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. 10 The current economic environment may continue to cause a decline in our Animal Hospital same-store revenue growth and the rate of our Laboratory internal revenue growth and have a material adverse effect on our profitability. The continued economic uncertainty has had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our revenue and our profitability. Consumer spending habits, including spending for pet healthcare, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. Recently, these factors have caused consumer spending to deteriorate significantly and may cause levels of spending to remain depressed for the foreseeable future. These factors may cause pet owners to elect to forgo expensive treatment options or to defer treatment for their pets altogether. We have experienced a decline in the frequency of visits to our animal hospitals and the number of orders placed in our animal hospitals. These factors have contributed to a decline in our Animal Hospital same-store revenue growth and the rate of our Laboratory internal revenue growth. While we continue to employ cost control measures, our profit margins may continue to decline until our businesses return to historical growth rates. In addition, the economic downturn may exacerbate the effect of the risks discussed below, including the impact on our growth strategy, changes in demand for our products and services, the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangibles, our ability to service our substantial indebtedness and sales of our medical imaging equipment. If we are unable to effectively execute our growth strategy, we may not achieve our desired economies of scale and our profitability may decline. Our success depends in part on our ability to increase our revenue and operating income through a balanced program of organic growth initiatives and selective acquisitions of established animal hospitals, laboratories and related businesses. If we cannot implement or effectively execute on this strategy, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Even if we effectively implement our growth strategy, we may not achieve the economies of scale that we have experienced in the past or that we anticipate occurring in the future. We have not experienced same-store revenue growth in our animal hospitals for the past eight quarters. Our Laboratory growth has also been affected and became negative during certain quarters of the three year period ending December 31, 2010. Our Animal Hospital same-store revenue, adjusted for differences in business days, has fluctuated between a decline of 3.2% and growth of 5.8% for 2006 through 2010. Our Laboratory internal revenue growth, adjusted for differences in billing days, has fluctuated between 0% and 15.2% over the same years. Our internal growth may continue to fluctuate and may be below our historical rates. Any reduction in the rate of our internal growth may cause our revenue and operating income to decrease. Investors should not assume that our historical growth rates are reliable indicators of results in future periods. Changes in the demand for our products and services could negatively affect our operating results. The frequency of visits to our animal hospitals has declined and may continue to decline. We believe that the frequency of visits is impacted by several trends in the industry, in addition to the continuing financial crisis. Client visits may be negatively impacted as a result of preventative care and better pet nutrition. Demand for vaccinations will be impacted in the future as protocols for vaccinations change. Our veterinarians establish their own vaccine protocols. Some of our veterinarians have changed their protocols and others may change their protocols in light of recent and/or future literature. The demand for our products and services may also decline as a result of the eradication or substantial declines in the prevalence of certain diseases. Also, many pet-related products traditionally sold at animal hospitals have become more widely available in retail stores and other channels of distribution, including the Internet, resulting in a decline in demand for these products at our animal hospitals. 11 Due to the fixed cost nature of our business, fluctuations in our revenue could adversely affect our gross profit, operating income and margins. A substantial portion of our expense, particularly rent and personnel costs, are fixed and are based in part on expectations of revenue. We may be unable to reduce spending in a timely manner to compensate for any significant fluctuations in our revenue. Accordingly, shortfalls in revenue may adversely affect our gross profit, operating income and margins. Any failure in our information technology systems, disruption in our transportation network or failure to receive supplies could significantly increase testing turn-around time, reduce our production capacity and otherwise disrupt our operations. Our Laboratory operations depend on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems and transportation network, including overnight delivery services provided by FedEx. Sustained system failures or interruption in our transportation network could disrupt our ability to process laboratory requisitions, perform testing, provide test results in a timely manner and/or bill the appropriate party. We could lose customers and revenue as a result of a system or transportation network failure. In addition, any change in government regulation related to transportation samples or specimens could also have an impact on our business. Our computer systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including telecommunications failures, electricity brownouts or blackouts, malicious human acts and natural disasters. Moreover, despite network security measures, some of our servers are potentially vulnerable to digital break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Despite the precautions we have taken, unanticipated problems affecting our systems could cause interruptions in our information technology systems. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures in our systems. Our Laboratory operations depend on a limited number of employees to upgrade and maintain its customized computer systems. If we were to lose the services of some or all of these employees, it may be time-consuming for new employees to become familiar with our systems, and we may experience disruptions in service during these periods. Our operations depend, in some cases, on the ability of single source suppliers or a limited number of suppliers, to deliver products and supplies on a timely basis. Some of these suppliers are smaller companies with limited capital resources and some of the products that we purchase from these suppliers are proprietary, and, therefore, cannot be readily or easily replaced by alternative suppliers. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, shortages of or difficulties in acquiring products and/or supplies in the quantities and of the quality needed. Shortages in the availability of products and/or supplies for an extended period of time will disrupt our ability to deliver products and provide services in a timely manner, could result in the loss of customers, and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Difficulties integrating new acquisitions may impose increased costs, loss of customers and a decline in operating margins and profitability and other risks that we may not anticipate. Our success depends in part on our ability to timely and cost-effectively acquire, and integrate into our business, additional animal hospitals, laboratories and related businesses. In 2010, we acquired 50 animal hospitals, including 23 with the acquisition of Pet DRx. In 2009, we acquired 27 animal hospitals, two laboratories and Eklin. In 2008, we acquired 51 animal hospitals and four laboratories. We expect to continue our animal hospital acquisition program, and if presented with favorable opportunities, we may acquire animal hospital chains, laboratories or related businesses. Our expansion into new territories and new business segments creates the risk that we will be unsuccessful in the integration of the acquired businesses that are new to our operations. Any difficulties in the integration process could result in increased expense, loss of customers and a decline in operating margins and profitability. In some cases, we have experienced delays and increased costs in integrating acquired businesses, particularly where we acquire a large number of animal hospitals in a single region at or about the same time. We also could experience delays in converting the systems of acquired businesses into our systems, which could result in increased staff and payroll expense to 12 collect our results as well as delays in reporting our results, both for a particular region and on a consolidated basis. Further, the legal and business environment prevalent in new territories and with respect to new businesses may pose risks that we do not anticipate and adversely impact our ability to integrate newly acquired operations. In addition, our field management may spend a greater amount of time integrating these new businesses and less time managing our existing businesses. During these periods, there may be less attention directed to marketing efforts or staffing issues, which could affect our revenue and expense. For all of these reasons, our historical success in integrating acquired businesses is not a reliable indicator of our ability to do so in the future. The significant competition in the companion animal healthcare industry could result in a decrease in our prices, an increase in our acquisition costs, a loss of market share and could materially affect our revenue and profitability. The companion animal healthcare industry is highly competitive with few barriers to entry. To compete successfully, we may be required to reduce prices, increase our acquisition and operating costs or take other measures that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, margins and cash flow. In addition, if we are unable to compete successfully, we may lose market share. A significant component of our annual growth strategy includes the acquisition of independent animal hospitals. The competition for animal hospital acquisitions from small national and regional multi-clinic companies may cause us to increase the amount we pay to acquire additional animal hospitals and may result in fewer acquisitions than anticipated by our growth strategy. If we are unable to acquire a requisite number of animal hospitals annually or if our acquisition costs increase, we may be unable to effectively implement our growth strategy and realize anticipated economies of scale. Some national companies in the pet care industry, including the operators of super-stores, are developing networks of animal hospitals in markets that include our animal hospitals; this may cause us to reduce prices to remain competitive. Reducing prices may have an adverse effect on our Animal Hospital revenue, alternatively not reducing prices may cause us to lose market share. We compete with clinical laboratory companies in the same markets we service. These companies have acquired additional laboratories in the markets in which we operate and may continue their expansion, and aggressively “bundle” their products and services to compete with us. Increased competition may adversely affect our Laboratory revenue and margins. Several other national companies develop and sell on-site diagnostic equipment that allows veterinarians to perform their own laboratory tests. Growth of the on-site diagnostic testing market may have an adverse effect on our Laboratory revenue. Our Medical Technology division is a leader in the market for medical imaging equipment in the animal healthcare industry. Our primary competitors are companies that are much larger than us and have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing and research and development resources than we do, including companies such as Siemens Medical Systems, Philips Medical Systems and Canon Medical Systems. The success of our Medical Technology division, in part, is due to its focus on the veterinary market, which allows it to differentiate its products and services to meet the unique needs of this market. If this market receives more focused attention from these larger competitors, we may find it difficult to compete and as a result our revenues and operating margins from this segment could decline. The carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets could be subject to an impairment write-down. At December 31, 2010, our consolidated balance sheet reflected $1.1 billion of goodwill and $47.0 million of other intangible assets, constituting a substantial portion of our total assets of $1.8 billion at that date. We expect that the aggregate amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet will increase as a result of future acquisitions. We continually evaluate whether events or circumstances have occurred that suggest that the fair value of our other intangible assets or each of our reporting units are below their respective carrying values. The determination that the fair value of our intangible assets or one of our reporting units is less than its carrying value would result in an impairment write-down. The impairment 13 write-down would be reflected as expense and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations during the period in which we recognize the expense. Our estimated fair values are calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles related to fair value and utilize valuation methods consisting primarily of discounted cash flow techniques, and market comparables, where applicable. These valuation methods involve the use of significant assumptions and estimates such as forecasted growth rates, valuation multiples, the weighted-average cost of capital, and risk premiums, which are based upon the best available market information and are consistent with our long-term strategic plans. We provide no assurance that forecasted growth rates, valuation multiples, and discount rates will not deteriorate. We will continue to analyze changes to these assumptions in future periods. We require a significant amount of cash to service our debt and expand our business as planned. We have, and will continue to have, a substantial amount of debt. Our substantial amount of debt requires us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to service interest and principal payments on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available for use for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes. Our failure to satisfy covenants in our debt instruments will cause a default under those instruments. In addition to imposing restrictions on our business and operations, our debt instruments include a number of covenants relating to financial ratios and tests. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. The breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under these instruments. An event of default would permit our lenders and other debtholders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If we are unable to repay debt to our senior lenders, these lenders and other debtholders could proceed against our assets. Our debt instruments may adversely affect our ability to run our business. Our substantial amount of debt, as well as the guarantees of our subsidiaries and the security interests in our assets and those of our subsidiaries, could impair our ability to operate our business effectively and may limit our ability to take advantage of business opportunities. For example, our senior credit facility may: • limit our ability to borrow additional funds or to obtain other financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to dispose of our assets, create liens on our assets or to extend credit; • make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or industry; • place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors with less debt; and • restrict our ability to pay dividends, repurchase or redeem our capital stock or debt, or merge or consolidate with another entity. The terms of our senior credit facility allow us, under specified conditions, to incur further indebtedness, which would heighten the foregoing risks. If compliance with our debt obligations materially hinders our ability to operate our business and adapt to changing industry conditions, we may lose market share, our revenue may decline and our operating results may suffer. 14 Any failure by the manufacturers of our medical imaging equipment, failure in our ability to develop functional and cost-effective software for our products, or any product malfunctions could result in a decline in customer purchases and a reduction in our revenue and profitability. We do not develop or manufacture the medical imaging equipment that we distribute, except for the software component of our digital radiography machines. Our business in this segment in large part is dependent upon distribution agreements with the manufacturers of the equipment, the ability of those manufacturers to produce desirable equipment and to keep pace with advances in technology, our ability to develop cost-effective, functional, and user-friendly software for the digital radiography machines, and the overall rate of new development within the industry. If the distribution agreements terminate or are not renewed, if the manufacturers breach their covenants under these agreements, if the equipment manufactured by these manufacturers or our software becomes less competitive or if there is a general decrease in the rate of new development within the industry, demand for our products and services would decrease. Manufacturing flaws, component failures, design defects, or inadequate disclosure of product-related information could result in an unsafe condition or injury. These problems could result in product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that our products have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury. In addition, an adverse event involving one of our products could result in reduced market acceptance and demand for all of our products, and could harm our reputation and our ability to market our products in the future. Any of the foregoing problems could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our use of self-insurance, self-insured retention and high-deductible insurance programs to cover certain claims for losses suffered and costs or expenses incurred could negatively impact our business upon the occurrence of an uninsured and/or significant event. We self-insure and use high retention or high-deductible insurance programs with regard to property risks, general, professional and employment practice liabilities, health benefits, and workers’ compensation. In the event that the frequency of losses we experience increases unexpectedly, the aggregate of those losses could materially increase our liability and adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, cash flows and results of operations. In addition, we have made certain judgments as to the limits on our existing insurance coverage that we believe are in line with industry standards, as well as in light of economic and availability considerations. If we experience losses above these limits it could materially adversely affect our financial and business condition. We may experience difficulties hiring skilled veterinarians due to shortages that could disrupt our business. If we are unable to retain an adequate number of skilled veterinarians, we may lose customers, our revenue may decline and we may need to sell or close animal hospitals. At December 31, 2010, there were 28 veterinary schools in the country accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association. These schools graduate approximately 2,500 veterinarians per year. From time to time we experience shortages of skilled veterinarians in some regional markets in which we operate animal hospitals. During shortages in these regions, we may be unable to hire enough qualified veterinarians to adequately staff our animal hospitals, in which event we may lose market share and our revenue and profitability may decline. If we fail to comply with governmental regulations applicable to our business, various governmental agencies may impose fines, institute litigation or preclude us from operating in certain states. The laws of many states prohibit business corporations from providing, or holding themselves out as providers of, veterinary medical care. At December 31, 2010, we operated 166 animal hospitals in 15 states with these laws, including 49 practices in Texas, 33 in Washington and 24 in New York. In addition, our mobile imaging service also operates in one state with these laws. We may experience difficulty in expanding our operations into other states with similar laws. Although we have structured our operations to comply with our understanding of the veterinary medicine laws of each state in which we operate, interpretive legal 15 precedent and regulatory guidance varies by state and is often times sparse and not fully developed. A determination that we are in violation of applicable restrictions on the practice of veterinary medicine in any state in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on us, particularly if we are unable to restructure our operations to comply with the requirements of that state. All of the states in which we operate impose various registration requirements. To fulfill these requirements, we have registered each of our facilities with appropriate governmental agencies and, where required, have appointed a licensed veterinarian to act on behalf of each facility. All veterinarians practicing in our animal hospitals are required to maintain valid state licenses to practice. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 