Risk Factors in Item 1A of this annual report. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General We are a leading animal healthcare services company operating in the United States. We provide veterinary services and diagnostic testing to support veterinary care and we sell diagnostic imaging equipment and other medical technology products and related services to the veterinary market. Our network of veterinary diagnostic laboratories provides sophisticated testing and consulting services used by veterinarians in the detection, diagnosis, evaluation, monitoring, treatment and prevention of diseases and other conditions affecting animals. Our network of veterinary diagnostic laboratories, consisting of 33 laboratories at December 31, 2006, serves all 50 states and provides diagnostic testing for over 15,000 clients, which includes standard animal hospitals, large animal practices, universities and other government organizations. Our animal hospitals offer a full range of general medical and surgical services for companion animals, as well as specialized treatments including advanced diagnostic services, internal medicine, oncology, ophthalmology, dermatology and cardiology. In addition, we provide pharmaceutical products and perform a variety of pet wellness programs including health examinations, diagnostic testing, routine vaccinations, spaying, neutering and dental care. Our network of animal hospitals, consisting of 379 at December 31, 2006, is supported by more than 1,300 veterinarians and had over 5.4 million patient visits in 2006. Our medical technology business sells digital radiography and ultrasound imaging equipment, provides education and training on the use of that equipment, and provides consulting and mobile imaging services. We were formed in 1986 as a Delaware corporation. Our principal executive offices are located at 12401 West Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, California. We can be contacted at (310) 571-6500. Industry Overview According to American Pet Products Manufacturers Association, Inc., or APPMA, the United States population of companion animals in 2004 reached approximately 210 million, including about 164 million dogs and cats. APPMA estimates that over $18 billion was spent in the United States on pets in 2004 for veterinary care, supplies, medicine and boarding and grooming. The APPMA National Pet Owners’ Survey indicated that the ownership of pets is widespread and growing with over 69 million, or 63%, of U.S. households owning at least one pet, including companion and other animals. Specifically, 43 million households owned at least one dog and 38 million households owned at least one cat. We believe that among the expanding number of pet owners is a growing awareness of pet health and wellness, including the benefits of preventive care and specialized services. As technology continues to 1 Table of Contents migrate from the human healthcare sector into the practice of veterinary medicine, more sophisticated treatments, diagnostic tests and equipment are becoming available to treat companion animals. These new and increasingly complex procedures, diagnostic tests, including laboratory testing and advanced imaging, and pharmaceuticals are gaining wider acceptance as pet owners are exposed to these previously unconsidered treatment programs through their exposure with this technology in human healthcare, and through literature and marketing programs sponsored by large pharmaceutical and pet nutrition companies. Even as treatments available in veterinary medicine become more complex, prices for veterinary services typically remain a low percentage of a pet owner’s income, facilitating payment at the time of service. Unlike the human healthcare industry, providers of veterinary services are not dependent on third-party payers in order to collect fees. As such, providers of veterinary services typically do not have the problems of extended payment collection cycles or pricing pressures from third-party payers faced by human healthcare providers. Outsourced laboratory testing and diagnostic equipment sales are wholesale businesses that collect payments directly from animal hospitals under standard industry payment terms. Fees for animal hospital services are due at the time of service. For example, in 2006 over 95% of our animal hospital services were paid at the time of service. In addition, over the past three fiscal years our bad debt expense has averaged only 1% of total revenue. The practice of veterinary medicine is subject to seasonal fluctuation. In particular, demand for veterinary services is significantly higher during the warmer months because pets spend a greater amount of time outdoors, where they are more likely to be injured and are more susceptible to disease and parasites. In addition, use of veterinary services may be affected by levels of infestation of fleas, heartworm and ticks, and the number of daylight hours. Diagnostic Laboratory Industry Veterinarians use laboratory tests to treat animals by diagnosing and monitoring illnesses and conditions through the detection of substances in urine, tissue, fecal and blood samples, and other specimens. As is the case with the physician treating a human patient, laboratory diagnostic testing is becoming a routine diagnostic tool used by the veterinarian. Veterinary laboratory tests are performed primarily at veterinary diagnostic laboratories, universities or animal hospitals using on-site diagnostic equipment. For particular types of tests, on-site diagnostic equipment can provide more timely results than outside laboratories, but this in-house testing requires the animal hospital or veterinarian to purchase or lease the equipment, maintain and calibrate the equipment periodically to avoid testing errors, and employ trained personnel to operate it. Conversely, veterinary diagnostic laboratories can provide a wider range of tests than generally are available on-site at most animal hospitals and do not require any up-front investment on the part of the animal hospital or veterinarian. Also, leading veterinary diagnostic laboratories employ highly trained individuals who specialize in the detection and diagnosis of diseases and thus are a valuable resource for the veterinarian. Our laboratories offer a broad spectrum of standard and customized tests to the veterinary market, convenient sample pick-up times, rapid test reporting and access to professional consulting services provided by trained specialists. Providing the customer with this level of service at competitive prices requires high throughput volumes due to the operating leverage associated with the laboratory business. As a result, larger laboratories are likely to have a competitive advantage relative to smaller laboratories. We believe that the outsourced laboratory testing market is among the faster growing segments of the animal healthcare services industry as a result of: • the increased focus on wellness, early detection and monitoring programs in veterinary medicine, which is increasing the overall number of tests being performed; • the emphasis in veterinary education on diagnostic tests and the trend toward specialization in veterinary medicine, which are causing veterinarians to increasingly rely on tests for more accurate diagnoses; and 2 Table of Contents • the continued technological developments in veterinary medicine, which are increasing the breadth of tests offered. Animal Hospital Industry Animal healthcare services are provided predominately by the veterinarian practicing as a sole practitioner, or as part of a larger group practice or hospital. Veterinarians diagnose and treat animal illnesses and injuries, perform surgeries, provide routine medical exams and prescribe medication. Some veterinarians specialize by type of medicine, such as orthopedics, dentistry, ophthalmology or dermatology. Others focus on a particular type of animal. The principal factors in a pet owner’s decision as to which veterinarian to use include convenient location and hours, recommendation of friends, reasonable fees and quality of care. According to the American Veterinary Medical Association, the U.S. market for veterinary services is highly fragmented with more than 44,000 veterinarians practicing at over 22,000 companion animal hospitals at the end of 2005. Although most animal hospitals are single-site, sole-practitioner facilities, we believe veterinarians are gravitating toward larger, multi-doctor animal hospitals that provide state-of-the-art facilities, treatments, methods and pharmaceuticals to enhance the services they can provide their clients. Well-capitalized animal hospital operators have the opportunity to supplement their internal growth with selective acquisitions. We believe the extremely fragmented animal hospital industry is consolidating due to: • the purchasing, marketing and administrative cost advantages that can be realized by a large, multiple location, multi-doctor veterinary provider; • the cost of financing equipment purchases and upgrading technology necessary for a successful practice; • the desire of veterinarians to focus on practicing veterinary medicine, rather than spending large portions of their time performing the administrative tasks necessary to operate an animal hospital; • the choice of some owners of animal hospitals to diversify their investment portfolio by selling all or a portion of their investment in the animal hospital; and • the appeal to many veterinarians of the benefits and flexible work schedule that is not typically available to a sole practitioner or single-site provider. Medical Technology Industry Veterinarians use radiography and ultrasound imaging equipment to capture and view anatomical images to aid in the diagnosis and treatment of a broad range of diseases and injuries in animals. Digital radiography imaging equipment utilizes high frequency electromagnetic waves to capture x-ray images that are then digitized and stored in digital format. Ultrasound imaging equipment utilizes high frequency sound waves and echoes to display a two-dimensional image of the tissue being examined. Veterinarians can display images created by digital radiography and ultrasound imaging equipment on computer monitors, manipulate the images, store them electronically and transmit in digital format over the Internet with additional computer hardware and software. We believe that the use of digital radiography and ultrasound imaging equipment provides advantages to veterinarians when compared to other imaging equipment for the following reasons: • the ability to see greater detail and manipulate images, which assists in the diagnosis of illnesses and injuries and improves the quality of care; • the ability to transmit images over the Internet to facilitate consultation with a specialist; • improved efficiencies, including the ability to easily store and retrieve images electronically; and • the reduction of costs associated with the purchasing, processing, storing, filing and retrieving of conventional film used by traditional x-ray equipment. 3 Table of Contents Business Strategy Our business strategy is to continue expanding our market leadership in animal healthcare services through our diagnostic laboratory, animal hospital and medical technology segments. Key elements to our strategy include: • Capitalizing on our Leading Market Position to Generate Revenue Growth. Our leading market position in the veterinary laboratory and animal hospital markets positions us to capitalize on favorable growth trends in the animal healthcare services industry. In our laboratories, we seek to generate revenue growth by taking advantage of the growing number of outsourced diagnostic tests, the opportunities to expand the testing that we provide and by increasing our market share. We continually educate veterinarians on new and existing technologies and tests available to diagnose medical conditions. Further, we leverage the knowledge of our specialists by providing veterinarians with extensive client support in utilizing and understanding these diagnostic tests. In our animal hospitals, we seek to generate revenue growth by capitalizing on the growing emphasis on pet health and wellness. Our medical technology segment seeks to leverage off our strengths in the broader veterinary markets by introducing technologies, products and services to the veterinary market. We seek to generate revenue growth by increasing our market share and educating veterinarians on new and existing technologies. • Leveraging Established Infrastructure to Improve Margins. We intend to leverage our established laboratory and animal hospital infrastructure to continue to increase our operating margins. Due to our established networks and the fixed cost nature of our business model, we are able to realize high margins on incremental revenue from laboratory and animal hospital customers. For example, given that our nationwide transportation network servicing our laboratory customers is a relatively fixed cost, we are able to achieve significantly higher margins on most incremental tests ordered by the same customer when picked up by our couriers at the same time. • Utilizing Enterprise-Wide Information Systems to Improve Operating Efficiencies. Our laboratory and animal hospital operations utilize enterprise-wide management information systems. We believe that these common systems enable us to more effectively manage the key operating metrics that drive our business. With the aid of these systems, we seek to standardize pricing, expand the services our veterinarians provide, capture unbilled services and increase volume through targeted marketing programs. • Pursuing Selected Acquisitions. The fragmentation of the animal hospital industry provides us with significant expansion opportunities in our animal hospital segment. Depending upon the attractiveness of the candidates and the strategic fit with our existing operations, we intend to acquire approximately 20 to 25 independent animal hospitals per year with aggregate annual revenues of approximately $35.0 million to $40.0 million. In addition, we also evaluate the acquisition of animal hospital chains, laboratories or related businesses if favorable opportunities are presented. We intend primarily to use cash in our acquisitions but, depending on the timing and amount of our acquisitions, we may use stock or debt. Diagnostic Laboratories We operate a full-service, veterinary diagnostic laboratory network serving all 50 states. Our laboratory network services a diverse customer base of over 15,000 clients including animal hospitals we operate, which accounted for 9% of total laboratory revenue in 2006. Services Our diagnostic spectrum includes over 300 different tests in the area of chemistry, pathology, endocrinology, serology, hematology and microbiology, as well as tests specific to particular diseases. We do not conduct experiments on animals. 4 Table of Contents Although modified to address the particular requirements of the species tested, the tests performed in our veterinary laboratories are similar to those performed in human clinical laboratories and utilize similar laboratory equipment and technologies. We believe that the growing concern for animal health, combined with the movement of veterinary medicine toward increasing specialization, may result in the migration of additional areas of human testing into the veterinary field. Given the recent advancements in veterinary-medical technology and the increased breadth and depth of knowledge required for the practice of veterinary medicine, many veterinarians solicit the knowledge and experience of our specialists to interpret test results to aid in the diagnosis of illnesses and to suggest possible treatment alternatives. Our diagnostic experts include veterinarians, chemists and other scientists with expertise in pathology, internal medicine, oncology, cardiology, dermatology, neurology and endocrinology. Because of our specialist support, we believe the quality of our service further distinguishes our laboratory services as a premiere service provider. Laboratory Network We operate 33 veterinary diagnostic laboratories. Our laboratory network includes: • primary hubs that are open 24 hours per day and offer a full-testing menu; • secondary laboratories that are open 24 hours per day and offer a wide-testing menu servicing large metropolitan areas; and • STAT laboratories that service other locations with demand sufficient to warrant nearby laboratory facilities and are open primarily during daytime hours. We connect our laboratories to our customers with what we believe is the industry’s largest transportation network, picking up requisitions daily through an extensive network of drivers and independent couriers. Customers outside our transportation network use Federal Express to send specimens to our laboratory just outside of Memphis, Tennessee, which permits rapid and cost-efficient testing because of the proximity to the primary sorting facility of Federal Express. In 2006, we derived 71% of our laboratory revenue from major metropolitan areas, where we offer twice-a-day pick-up service and same-day results. In addition, in these areas we generally offer to report results within three hours of pick-up. Outside of these areas, we typically provide test results to veterinarians before 8:00 a.m. the day following pick-up. Sales, Marketing and Client Service Our full-time sales and field-service representatives market laboratory services and maintain relationships with existing customers. Our sales force is commission-based and organized along geographic regions. We support our sales efforts by strengthening our industry-leading team of specialists, developing marketing literature, attending trade shows, participating in trade associations and providing educational services to veterinarians. Our client-service representatives respond to customer inquiries, provide test results and, when appropriate, introduce the customer to other services offered by the laboratory. 5 Table of Contents Animal Hospitals At December 31, 2006, we operated 379 animal hospitals in 37 states that were supported by over 1,300 veterinarians. Our nationwide network of freestanding, full-service animal hospitals has facilities located in the following states: California 74 Texas* 42 Washington* 31 Florida 23 New York* 22 Illinois 16 Arizona 14 Pennsylvania 11 Indiana 10 Michigan 10 New Jersey* 10 Oregon* 10 Colorado 9 Massachusetts 9 Maryland 8 Nevada 8 Oklahoma 8 Virginia 8 Ohio* 7 North Carolina* 6 Alaska 5 New Mexico 5 Minnesota* 5 Delaware 4 Connecticut 3 Hawaii 3 Nebraska* 3 Wisconsin 3 Georgia 2 Louisiana* 2 Missouri 2 Alabama* 1 New Hampshire* 1 South Carolina 1 Utah 1 Vermont 1 West Virginia* 1 * States with laws that prohibit corporations from providing veterinary-medical care. In these states we provide administrative and support services to veterinary-medical groups pursuant to management agreements. We seek to provide quality care in clean, attractive facilities that are generally open between 10 to 15 hours per day, six to seven days per week. Our typical animal hospital: • is located in a 4,000 to 6,000 square-foot, freestanding facility in an attractive location; • has annual revenue between $1.0 million and $2.0 million; • is supported by three to five veterinarians; and • has an operating history of over ten years. In addition to general medical and surgical services, we offer specialized treatments for companion animals, including advanced diagnostic services, internal medicine, oncology, ophthalmology, dermatology and cardiology. We also provide pharmaceutical products for use in the delivery of treatments by our veterinarians and pet owners. Many of our animal hospitals offer additional services, including grooming, bathing and boarding. We also sell specialty pet products at our hospitals, including pet food, vitamins, therapeutic shampoos and conditioners, flea collars and sprays, and other accessory products. As part of the growth strategy of our animal hospital business, we intend to continue our selective acquisition strategy by identifying high-quality practices where we can create additional value through the services and scale we can provide. Our typical candidate mirrors the profile of our existing hospital base. Acquisitions will be used to both expand existing markets and enter new geographical areas. We intend primarily to use cash in our acquisitions, but we may use debt or stock to the extent we deem appropriate. 6 Table of Contents Personnel Our animal hospitals generally employ a staff of between 10 and 30 full-time-equivalent employees, depending upon the facility’s size and customer base. The staff includes administrative and technical-support personnel, three to five veterinarians, a hospital manager who supervises the day-to-day activities of the facility, and a small office staff. We actively recruit qualified veterinarians and technicians and are committed to supporting continuing education for our professional staff. We operate post-graduate teaching programs for veterinarians at 10 of our facilities, which train approximately 80 veterinarians each year. We believe that these programs enhance our reputation in the veterinary profession and further our ability to continue to recruit the most talented veterinarians. We seek to establish an environment that supports the veterinarian in the delivery of quality medicine and fosters professional growth through increased patient flow and a diverse case mix, continuing education, state-of-the-art equipment and access to specialists. We believe our hospitals offer attractive employment opportunities to veterinarians because of our professional environment, competitive compensation, management opportunities, employee benefits not generally available to a sole practitioner, flexible work schedules that accommodate personal lifestyles and the ability to relocate to different regions of the country. We have established a medical advisory board to support our operations. Our advisory board, under the direction of our Chief Medical Officer, recommends medical standards for our network of animal hospitals and is comprised of veterinarians recognized for their outstanding knowledge and reputations in the veterinary field. Our advisory board members represent both the different geographic regions in which we operate and the medical specialties practiced by our veterinarians; and three members are faculty members at highly-ranked veterinary colleges. Additionally, our regional medical directors, a group of highly experienced clinicians, are also closely involved in the development and implementation of our medical programs. Marketing We primarily direct our marketing efforts toward our existing clients through customer education efforts. We inform and educate our clients about pet wellness and quality care through mailings of Healthy Pet Magazine, which focuses on pet care and wellness. We also market through targeted demographic mailings regarding specific pet health issues and collateral health material available at each animal hospital. With these internal marketing programs, we seek to leverage our existing customer base by increasing the number and intensity of the services used during each visit. We send reminder notices to increase awareness of the advantages of regular, comprehensive veterinary-medical care, including preventive care such as vaccinations, dental screening and geriatric care. We also enter into referral arrangements with local pet shops, humane societies and veterinarians to increase our client base. We seek to obtain referrals from veterinarians by promoting our specialized diagnostic and treatment capabilities to veterinarians and veterinary practices that cannot offer their clients these services. Ownership Limitations We provide management services to certain veterinary-medical groups in states with laws that prohibit business corporations from providing or holding themselves out as providers of veterinary services. At December 31, 2006, we operated 141 animal hospitals in 13 of these states. In these states, we provide administrative and support services to the veterinary-medical groups. Pursuant to the management agreements, the veterinary-medical groups are each solely responsible for all aspects of the practice of veterinary medicine, as defined by their respective state. Medical Technology We sell digital radiography and ultrasound imaging equipment and related computer hardware, software and services, including consulting services and training, to the veterinary market. Our digital radiography and ultrasound imaging equipment are used by veterinarians to capture and view anatomical images to aid in the 7 Table of Contents diagnosis and treatment of a broad range of diseases and injuries in animals. We also have developed and license VetPACS, our proprietary software package that allows for the archival and communication of digital images, image manipulation, networking, case reporting and image and case transmission over the Internet. In addition, we have mobile imaging units that provide mobile diagnostic ultrasound imaging services to veterinarians who do not own their own ultrasound imaging equipment. Digital Radiography Imaging Equipment We sell digital radiography imaging equipment, which is comprised of a network of various components that we acquire from third-party manufacturers and developers. A key component is the amorphous silicon flat-panel x-ray detector, which we acquire from Varian Medical Systems pursuant to a distribution agreement entered into in July 2003, granting us exclusive rights to sell these detectors to members and institutions in the North American veterinary community. Ultrasound Imaging Equipment We sell General Electric ultrasound imaging equipment pursuant to an agreement entered into with General Electric in July 2001 granting us exclusive rights to sell this equipment to members and institutions in the North American veterinary community. Proprietary Software We license our proprietary software, VetPACS and TruDR. VetPACS enables the archival and communication of digital images, image manipulation, networking, case reporting and image and case transmission over the Internet. TruDR allows for the capture of digital x-ray images and transmits those images to a computer containing VetPACS. TruDR, or similar software, is a required component for our digital radiography imaging equipment to function. TruDR is not applicable to ultrasound imaging equipment sales. Our ultrasound imaging equipment is functional without VetPACS; however, without VetPACS, or similar software, there is no digital capability, such as electronic storage or transmission. Other Services We also provide mobile imaging, consulting, education and training services to our customers. In addition, we sell extended service agreements to our customers that include technical support, product updates for software and extended warranty coverage for a period of up to five years. The products included in our warranty programs are generally covered by the original equipment manufacturer and we coordinate the warranty support between our customer and the manufacturer. Sales and Marketing Our sales agents market and sell our products and services to veterinary hospitals and universities. Our sales agents receive a base salary and commissions based on sales. We market our products and services through direct mail, advertisements in trade magazines, trade shows and direct sales calls to our intended customers. Systems Laboratory We use an enterprise-wide management information system to support our veterinary laboratories. All of our financial, customer records and laboratory results are stored in computer databases. Laboratory technicians and specialists are able to electronically access test results from remote testing sites. Our software gathers data in a data warehouse enabling us to provide expedient results via fax or through our Internet online resulting system. 8 Table of Contents Animal Hospital We use an enterprise-wide management information system to support our animal hospital operations. We decide whether or not to place newly acquired animal hospitals on this network based on a cost-benefit analysis. In addition, a majority of our animal hospitals utilize consistent patient accounting/point-of-sale software and we are able to track performance of hospitals on a per-service, per-veterinarian and per-client basis. Competition Among veterinary diagnostic laboratories, we believe that quality, price, specialist support and the time required to deliver results are the major competitive factors. There are many clinical laboratories that provide a broad range of diagnostic testing services in the same markets serviced by us, and we also face competition from several providers of on-site diagnostic equipment that allows veterinarians to perform various testing. The companion animal healthcare services industry is highly competitive and subject to continual change in the manner in which services are delivered and providers are selected. We believe that the primary factors influencing a customer’s selection of an animal hospital are convenient location and hours, recommendation of friends, reasonable fees and quality of care. Our primary competitors for our animal hospitals in most markets are individual practitioners or small, regional multi-clinic practices. In addition, some national companies in the pet care industry, including the operators of super-stores, are developing networks of animal hospitals in markets that include our animal hospitals. The primary competitive factors in the medical imaging equipment industry are quality, technical capability, breadth of product line, distribution capabilities, price and the ability to provide quality service and support. There are many companies that manufacture and sell digital radiography and ultrasound imaging equipment. Government Regulation Certain states have laws that prohibit business corporations from providing, or holding themselves out as providers of, veterinary-medical care. In these states we do not provide veterinary services or own veterinary practices. We provide management and other administrative services to veterinary practices located in these states. At December 31, 2006, we provided management services to 141 animal hospitals in 13 states under management agreements with the veterinary practices. In three of these states, we operated a mobile imaging service. Although we seek to structure our operations to comply with veterinary medicine laws of each state in which we operate, given the varying and uncertain interpretations of these laws, we may not be in compliance with restrictions on the corporate practice of veterinary medicine in all states. A determination that we are in violation of applicable restrictions on the practice of veterinary medicine in any state in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations, particularly if we were unable to restructure our operations to comply with the requirements of that state. In addition, all of the states in which we operate impose various registration requirements. To fulfill these requirements, we have registered each of our facilities with appropriate governmental agencies and, where required, have appointed a licensed veterinarian to act on behalf of each facility. All veterinarians practicing in our clinics are required to maintain valid state licenses to practice. Our acquisitions may be subject to pre-merger or post-merger review by governmental authorities for anti-trust and other legal compliance. Adverse regulatory action could negatively affect our operations through the assessment of fines or penalties against us or the possible requirement of divestiture of one or more of our operations. Employees At December 31, 2006, we had 8,000 full-time-equivalent employees, including 1,400 licensed veterinarians. At that date, none of our employees were a party to a collective bargaining agreement with the exception of 12 employees whom we employ as courier dispatchers and facilities personnel in the state of New York. 9 Table of Contents These employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement expiring on July 10, 2007 with the Teamsters Local Union 813. Website Availability of Our Reports Filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission We maintain a website with the address http://investor.vcaantech.com. We are not including the information contained on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this annual report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file that material with, or furnish that material to, the SEC. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Various sections of this annual report contain forward-looking statements, all of which are based on current expectations and could be affected by the uncertainties and risk factors described below and through this annual report. Our actual results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. If we are unable to effectively execute our growth strategy, we may not achieve our desired economies of scale and our profitability may decline. Our success depends in part on our ability to increase our revenues and operating income through a balanced program of internal growth initiatives and selective acquisitions of established animal hospitals, laboratories and related businesses. If we cannot implement or effectively execute on this strategy, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Even if we effectively implement our growth strategy, we may not achieve the economies of scale that we have experienced in the past or that we anticipate having in the future. Our internal growth rate may decline and could become negative. Our laboratory internal revenue growth, adjusted for differences in billing days, has fluctuated between 9.8% and 15.2% for each fiscal year from 2002 through 2006. Our animal hospital same-store revenue growth, adjusted for differences in business days, has fluctuated between 3.6% and 6.6% over the same fiscal years. Our internal growth may continue to fluctuate and may be below our historical rates. Any reduction in the rate of our internal growth may cause our revenues and operating income to decrease. Investors should not assume that our historical growth rates are reliable indicators of results in future periods. Demand for certain products and services have declined and may continue to decline. The frequency of visits to our animal hospitals is declining and may continue to decline. We believe that the frequency of visits is impacted by several trends in the industry. Demand for pet-related products traditionally sold at animal hospitals have become more widely available in retail stores and other channels of distribution, including the Internet. Client visits may also be negatively impacted as a result of preventative care and better pet nutrition. Demand for vaccinations will be impacted in the future as protocols for vaccinations change. Some professionals in the industry have recommended that vaccinations be given less frequently. Our veterinarians establish their own vaccine protocols. Some of our veterinarians have changed their protocols and others may change their protocols in light of recent and/or future literature. If demand for retail products, vaccinations or other veterinary services decline, the frequency of visits may decline which may result in a reduction in revenue. Due to the fixed cost nature of our business, fluctuations in our revenue could adversely affect our gross profit, operating income and margins. A substantial portion of our expenses, particularly rent and personnel costs, are fixed costs and are based in part on expectations of revenue. We may be unable to reduce spending in a timely manner to compensate for any significant fluctuations in our revenue. Accordingly, shortfalls in revenue may adversely affect our gross profit, operating income and margins. 10 Table of Contents Any failure in our information technology systems, disruption in our transportation network or failure to receive supplies could significantly increase testing turn-around time, reduce our production capacity and otherwise disrupt our operations. Our laboratory operations depend on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems and transportation network, including overnight delivery services provided by Federal Express. Sustained system failures or interruption in our transportation network could disrupt our ability to process laboratory requisitions, perform testing, provide test results in a timely manner and/or bill the appropriate party. We could lose customers and revenue as a result of a system or transportation network failure. In addition, any change in government regulation related to transportation samples or specimens could also have an impact on our business. Our computer systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including telecommunications failures, electricity brownouts or blackouts, malicious human acts and natural disasters. Moreover, despite network security measures, some of our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electrical break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Despite the precautions we have taken, unanticipated problems affecting our systems could cause interruptions in our information technology systems. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures in our systems. Our laboratory operations depend on a limited number of employees to upgrade and maintain its customized computer systems. If we were to lose the services of some or all of these employees, it may be time-consuming for new employees to become familiar with our systems, and we may experience disruptions in service during these periods. In addition, we are currently upgrading this system. If we experience unanticipated problems with this upgrade, we may experience disruptions in service. Our operations depend, in some cases, on the ability of single source suppliers or a limited number of suppliers, to deliver products and supplies on a timely basis. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, shortages of or difficulties in acquiring products and/or supplies in the quantities and of the quality needed. Shortages in the availability of products and/or supplies for an extended period of time will disrupt our ability to deliver products and provide services in a timely manner, and we could lose customers and revenue. Difficulties integrating new acquisitions may impose substantial costs and cause other problems for us. Our success depends on our ability to timely and cost-effectively acquire, and integrate into our business, additional animal hospitals and in some instances laboratories and related businesses. In 2006, we acquired 22 animal hospitals and three laboratories. In 2005, we acquired 68 animal hospitals, including 46 in a single acquisition of Pet’s Choice, Inc. In 2004, we acquired 85 animal hospitals, including 67 in a single acquisition of National PetCare Centers, Inc. In addition, in 2004 we acquired a medical technology company, which resulted in a new business segment for us. We expect to continue our animal hospital acquisition program and if presented with favorable opportunities, we may acquire animal hospital chains, laboratories or related businesses. Our expansion into new territories and new business segments create the risk that we will be unsuccessful in the integration of the acquired businesses that are new to our operations. Any difficulties in the integration process could result in increased expense, loss of customers and a decline in profitability. In some cases, we have experienced delays and increased costs in integrating acquired businesses, particularly where we acquire a large number of animal hospitals in a single region at or about the same time. We also could experience delays in converting the systems of acquired businesses into our systems, which could result in increased staff and payroll expense to collect our results as well as delays in reporting our results, both for a particular region and on a consolidated basis. Further, the legal and business environment prevalent in new territories and with respect to new businesses may pose risks that we do not anticipate and adversely impact our ability to integrate newly acquired operations. In addition, our field management may spend a greater amount of time integrating these new businesses and less time managing our existing businesses. During these periods, there may be less attention directed to marketing efforts or staffing issues, which could affect our revenues and expenses. For all of these reasons, our historical success in integrating acquired businesses is not 11 Table of Contents a reliable indicator of our ability to do so in the future. If we are not successful in timely and cost-effectively integrating future acquisitions, it could result in decreased revenue, increased costs and lower margins. We continue to face risks in connection with our acquisitions including: • negative effects on our operating results; • impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets; • dependence on retention, hiring and training of key personnel, including specialists; and • contingent and latent risks associated with the past operations of, and other unanticipated problems arising in, an acquired business. The process of integration may require a disproportionate amount of the time and attention of our management, which may distract management’s attention from its day-to-day responsibilities. In addition, any interruption or deterioration in service resulting from an acquisition may result in a customer’s decision to stop using us. For these reasons, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, either at all or in a timely manner. If that happens and we incur significant costs, it could have a material adverse impact on our business. The significant competition in the companion animal healthcare services industry could result in a decrease in our prices, an increase in our acquisition costs, a loss of market share and could materially affect our revenue and profitability. The companion animal healthcare services industry is highly competitive with few barriers to entry. To compete successfully, we may be required to reduce prices, increase our acquisition and operating costs or take other measures that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, margins and cash flow. In addition, if we are unable to compete successfully, we may lose market share. There are many clinical laboratory companies that provide a broad range of laboratory testing services in the same markets we service. Our largest competitor for outsourced laboratory testing services is Idexx Laboratories, Inc. (“Indexx”). Idexx currently competes in the same markets in which we operate. In this regard, Idexx has recently acquired additional laboratories in the markets in which we operate and may continue its expansion, and aggressively “bundles” their products and services to compete with us. Increased competition may adversely affect our laboratory revenues and margins. Also, Idexx and several other national companies provide on-site diagnostic equipment that allows veterinarians to perform their own laboratory tests. Our primary competitors for our animal hospitals in most markets are individual practitioners or small, regional, multi-clinic practices. Also, regional pet care companies and some national companies, including operators of super-stores, are developing multi-regional networks of animal hospitals in markets in which we operate. Historically, when a competing animal hospital opens in proximity to one of our hospitals, we have reduced prices, expanded our facility, retained additional qualified personnel, increased our marketing efforts or taken other actions designed to retain and expand our client base. As a result, our revenue may decline and our costs may increase. A significant component of our growth strategy includes the acquisition of 20 to 25 animal hospitals per year with aggregate annual revenues of approximately $35.0 million to $40.0 million. The competition for animal hospital acquisitions from small national and regional multi-clinic companies may cause us to increase the amount we pay to acquire additional animal hospitals and may result in fewer acquisitions than anticipated by our growth strategy. If we are unable to acquire a requisite number of animal hospitals annually or if our acquisition costs increase, we may be unable to effectively implement our growth strategy and realize anticipated economies of scale. Our medical technology division is a relatively new entrant in the market for medical imaging equipment in the animal healthcare industry. Our primary competitors are companies that are much larger than us and have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing and research and development resources than we do, including companies such as Siemens Medical Systems, Philips Medical Systems and Canon Medical 12 Table of Contents Systems. The success of our medical technology division, in part, is due to its focus on the veterinary market, which allows it to differentiate its products and services to meet the unique needs of this market. If this market receives more focused attention from these larger competitors, we may find it difficult to compete and as a result our revenues and operating margins could decline. If we fail to compete successfully in this market, the demand for our products and services would decrease. Any reduction in demand could lead to fewer customer orders, pricing pressures, reduced revenues, reduced margins, reduced levels of profitability and loss of market share. These competitive pressures could adversely affect our business and operating results. The carrying value of our goodwill could be subject to impairment write-down. At December 31, 2006, our consolidated balance sheet reflected $625.7 million of goodwill, which was a substantial portion of our total assets of $972.0 million at that date. We expect that the aggregate amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet will increase as a result of future acquisitions. We continually evaluate whether events or circumstances have occurred that suggest that the fair market value of each of our reporting units is below its carrying value. The determination that the fair market value of one of our reporting units is less than its carrying value may result in an impairment write-down of the goodwill for that reporting unit. The impairment write-down would be reflected as expense and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations during the period in which we recognize the expense. At December 31, 2006, we concluded that the fair values of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values and accordingly, as of that date, our goodwill as reflected in our consolidated financial statements was not impaired. However, in the future we may incur impairment charges related to the goodwill already recorded or arising out of future acquisitions. We require a significant amount of cash to service our debt and expand our business as planned. We have, and will continue to have, a substantial amount of debt. Our substantial amount of debt requires us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to pay down our indebtedness and related interest, thereby reducing the funds available to use for capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes. At December 31, 2006, our debt consisted of: • $372.7 million in principal amount outstanding under our senior term notes; and • $18.0 million in principal amount outstanding under capital leases and other debt. Our ability to make payments on our debt, and to fund acquisitions, will depend upon our ability to generate cash in the future. Insufficient cash flow could place us at risk of default under our debt agreements or could prevent us from expanding our business as planned. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, our strategy to increase operating efficiencies may not be realized and future borrowings may not be available to us under our senior credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. A substantial portion of our debt is variable-rate debt that is exposed to interest rate fluctuations. In order to meet our debt obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our failure to satisfy covenants in our debt instruments will cause a default under those instruments. In addition to imposing restrictions on our business and operations, our debt instruments include a number of covenants relating to financial ratios and tests. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. The breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under these instruments. An event of default would permit our lenders and other debtholders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. Moreover, these lenders and other debtholders would have the option to terminate 13 Table of Contents any obligation to make further extensions of credit under these instruments. If we are unable to repay debt to our senior lenders, these lenders and other debtholders could proceed against our assets. Our debt instruments may adversely affect our ability to run our business. Our substantial amount of debt, as well as the guarantees of our subsidiaries and the security interests in our assets and those of our subsidiaries, could impair our ability to operate our business effectively and may limit our ability to take advantage of business opportunities. For example, our senior credit facility may: • limit our ability to borrow additional funds or to obtain other financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to dispose of our assets, create liens on our assets or to extend credit; • make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or industry; • place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors with less debt; and • restrict our ability to pay dividends, repurchase or redeem our capital stock or debt, or merge or consolidate with another entity. The terms of our senior credit facility allow us, under specified conditions, to incur further indebtedness, which would heighten the foregoing risks. If compliance with our debt obligations materially hinders our ability to operate our business and adapt to changing industry conditions, we may lose market share, our revenue may decline and our operating results may suffer. We face numerous risks associated with our acquisition of our medical technology division. In October 2004, we acquired Sound Technologies, Inc. (“STI”), which we now operate as our medical technology segment. This acquisition poses numerous risks, in addition to the risks discussed above related to difficulties integrating new acquisitions. STI sells medical imaging equipment and related software and services. As advanced medical imaging equipment becomes more common in the veterinary industry and generates more significant aggregate revenues, the competition may increase, along with greater price and margin pressures, demands for research and development and market differentiation. Our medical technology division does not manufacture the principal products it distributes, and therefore its future business is dependent upon distribution agreements with the manufacturers of the equipment, the ability of those manufacturers to produce desirable equipment and the overall rate of new development within the industry. If the distribution agreements terminate or are not renewed, if the manufacturers breach their covenants under these agreements, if the equipment manufactured by these manufacturers becomes less competitive or if there is a general decrease in the rate of new development within the industry, demand for our products and services would decrease. In addition, because the products represent a significant capital investment for our customers, an adverse change in the economy or the current tax law could also negatively impact the demand for these products and services. Any reduction in demand could lead to fewer customer orders, pricing pressures, reduced revenues, reduced margins, reduced levels of profitability and loss of market share. Our use of self-insurance, self-insured retention and high-deductible insurance programs to cover certain claims for losses suffered and costs or expenses incurred could negatively impact our business upon the occurrence of an uninsured and/or significant event. We have adopted insurance programs of self-insurance or with large deductible provisions with regard to certain property risks such as earthquakes and other natural disasters. In addition, our other insurance programs including, but not limited to, general, professional and employment practice liabilities, health benefits and workers’ compensation are self-insured or are programs with self-insured retentions or high-deductible 14 Table of Contents provisions. We self-insure and use self-insured retention or high-deductible insurance programs when the lack of availability and/or the high cost of commercially available insurance products do not render the transfer of this risk economically feasible. In the event that the frequency of losses experienced by us increased unexpectedly, the aggregate of such losses could materially increase our liability and adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, cash flows and results of operations. In addition, while the insurance market continues to limit the availability of certain insurance products while increasing the costs of such products, we will continue to evaluate the levels of claims we include in our self-insured, self-insured retention and/or high-deductible insurance programs. Any increases to these programs increase our risk of exposure and therefore increases the risk of a possible material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, cash flows and results of operations. In addition, we have made certain judgments as to the limits on our existing insurance coverage that we believe are in line with industry standards, as well as in light of economic and availability considerations. Unforeseen catastrophic loss scenarios could prove our limits to be inadequate, and losses incurred in connection with the known claims we self-insure could be substantial. Either of these circumstances could materially adversely affect our financial and business condition. We may experience difficulties hiring skilled veterinarians due to shortages that could disrupt our business. As the pet population continues to grow, the need for skilled veterinarians continues to increase. If we are unable to retain an adequate number of skilled veterinarians, we may lose customers, our revenue may decline and we may need to sell or close animal hospitals. At December 31, 2006, there were 28 veterinary schools in the country accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association. These schools graduate approximately 2,100 veterinarians per year. There is a shortage of skilled veterinarians in some regional markets in which we operate animal hospitals. During shortages in these regions, we may be unable to hire enough qualified veterinarians to adequately staff our animal hospitals, in which event we may lose market share and our revenues and profitability may decline. If we fail to comply with governmental regulations applicable to our business, various governmental agencies may impose fines, institute litigation or preclude us from operating in certain states. The laws of many states prohibit business corporations from providing, or holding themselves out as providers of, veterinary-medical care. At December 31, 2006, we operated 141 animal hospitals in 13 states with these laws, including 42 in Texas, 31 in Washington and 22 in New York. In addition, our mobile imaging service also operates in states with these laws. We may experience difficulty in expanding our operations into other states with similar laws. Given varying and uncertain interpretations of the veterinary laws of each state, we may not be in compliance with restrictions on the corporate practice of veterinary medicine in all states. A determination that we are in violation of applicable restrictions on the practice of veterinary medicine in any state in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on us, particularly if we are unable to restructure our operations to comply with the requirements of that state. All of the states in which we operate impose various registration requirements. To fulfill these requirements, we have registered each of our facilities with appropriate governmental agencies and, where required, have appointed a licensed veterinarian to act on behalf of each facility. All veterinarians practicing in our clinics are required to maintain valid state licenses to practice. We may have to write-off certain capitalized software development costs. If we are unable to realize the benefits of internally developed software, we may be required to write-off a portion or all of the associated capitalized costs, which may have an adverse effect on our operating results in the period in which we incur the write-off. We are currently in the process of internally developing software that will be used in our animal hospitals. Costs related directly to the software design, coding, testing and installation are capitalized and amortized over the expected life of the software when it is deployed. 15 Table of Contents The loss of Mr. Robert Antin, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, could materially and adversely affect our business. We are dependent upon the management and leadership of our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Robert Antin. We have an employment contract with Mr. Antin that may be terminated at the option of Mr. Antin. We do not maintain any key man life insurance coverage for Mr. Antin. The loss of Mr. Antin could materially adversely affect our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 