ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Various sections of this annual report contain forward-looking statements, all of which are based on current expectations and could be affected by the uncertainties and risk factors described below and through this annual report. Our actual results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. If we are unable to effectively execute our growth strategy, we may not achieve our desired economies of scale and our profitability may decline. Our success depends in part on our ability to increase our revenues and operating income through a balanced program of internal growth initiatives and selective acquisitions of established animal hospitals, laboratories and related businesses. If we cannot implement or effectively execute on this strategy, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Even if we effectively implement our growth strategy, we may not achieve the economies of scale that we have experienced in the past or that we anticipate having in the future. Our internal growth rate may decline and could become negative. Our laboratory internal revenue growth, adjusted for differences in billing days, has fluctuated between 9.8% and 15.2% for 2003 through 2007. Our animal hospital same-store revenue growth, adjusted for differences in business days, has fluctuated between 3.6% and 6.6% over the same years. Our internal growth may continue to fluctuate and may be below our 10 Table of Contents historical rates. Any reduction in the rate of our internal growth may cause our revenues and operating income to decrease. Investors should not assume that our historical growth rates are reliable indicators of results in future periods. Changes in the demand for our products and services could negatively affect our operating results. Client visits may be negatively impacted as a result of preventative care and better pet nutrition. Demand for vaccinations will be impacted in the future as protocols for vaccinations change. Our veterinarians establish their own vaccine protocols. Some of our veterinarians have changed their protocols and others may change their protocols in light of recent and/or future literature. The demand for our products and services may also decline as a result of the eradication or substantial declines in the prevalence of certain diseases. The frequency of visits to our animal hospitals has declined and may continue to decline. We believe that the frequency of visits is impacted by several trends in the industry. Demand for pet-related products traditionally sold at animal hospitals have become more widely available in retail stores and other channels of distribution, including the Internet. Some professionals in the industry have recommended that vaccinations be given less frequently. We believe that, historically, the animal healthcare industry and our business have been relatively resistant to changes in the general economy, but not immune to them. However, our fourth quarter results appear to indicate that we were marginally impacted by the uncertainty in the economy. As a result of these factors, during the fourth quarter, and particularly the second half of the quarter, our internal revenue growth slowed. If demand for our products, vaccinations or other veterinary and laboratory services continue to decline, our operating results will be negatively impacted. Due to the fixed cost nature of our business, fluctuations in our revenue could adversely affect our gross profit, operating income and margins. A substantial portion of our expenses, particularly rent and personnel costs, are fixed costs and are based in part on expectations of revenue. We may be unable to reduce spending in a timely manner to compensate for any significant fluctuations in our revenue. Accordingly, shortfalls in revenue may adversely affect our gross profit, operating income and margins. Any failure in our information technology systems, disruption in our transportation network or failure to receive supplies could significantly increase testing turn-around time, reduce our production capacity and otherwise disrupt our operations. Our laboratory operations depend on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems and transportation network, including overnight delivery services provided by FedEx. Sustained system failures or interruption in our transportation network could disrupt our ability to process laboratory requisitions, perform testing, provide test results in a timely manner and/or bill the appropriate party. We could lose customers and revenue as a result of a system or transportation network failure. In addition, any change in government regulation related to transportation samples or specimens could also have an impact on our business. Our computer systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including telecommunications failures, electricity brownouts or blackouts, malicious human acts and natural disasters. Moreover, despite network security measures, some of our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electrical break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Despite the precautions we have taken, unanticipated problems affecting our systems could cause interruptions in our information technology systems. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures in our systems. Our laboratory operations depend on a limited number of employees to upgrade and maintain its customized computer systems. If we were to lose the services of some or all of these employees, it may be time-consuming for new employees to become familiar with our systems, and we may experience disruptions in service during these periods. 11 Table of Contents Our operations depend, in some cases, on the ability of single source suppliers or a limited number of suppliers, to deliver products and supplies on a timely basis. Some of the products that we purchase from these suppliers are proprietary, and, therefore, cannot be readily or easily replaced by alternative suppliers. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, shortages of or difficulties in acquiring products and/or supplies in the quantities and of the quality needed. Shortages in the availability of products and/or supplies for an extended period of time will disrupt our ability to deliver products and provide services in a timely manner, could result in the loss of customers, and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Difficulties integrating new acquisitions may impose substantial costs and cause other problems for us. Our success depends on our ability to timely and cost-effectively acquire, and integrate into our business, additional animal hospitals and in some instances laboratories and related businesses. In 2007, we acquired 73 animal hospitals and two laboratories, including 44 animal hospitals as part of the acquisition of Healthy Pet Corp. In 2006, we acquired 22 animal hospitals and three laboratories. In 2005, we acquired 68 animal hospitals, including 46 animal hospitals as part of the acquisition of Pet’s Choice, Inc. We expect to continue our animal hospital acquisition program and if presented with favorable opportunities, we may acquire animal hospital chains, laboratories or related businesses. Our expansion into new territories and new business segments creates the risk that we will be unsuccessful in the integration of the acquired businesses that are new to our operations. Any difficulties in the integration process could result in increased expense, loss of customers and a decline in profitability. In some cases, we have experienced delays and increased costs in integrating acquired businesses, particularly where we acquire a large number of animal hospitals in a single region at or about the same time. We also could experience delays in converting the systems of acquired businesses into our systems, which could result in increased staff and payroll expense to collect our results as well as delays in reporting our results, both for a particular region and on a consolidated basis. Further, the legal and business environment prevalent in new territories and with respect to new businesses may pose risks that we do not anticipate and adversely impact our ability to integrate newly acquired operations. In addition, our field management may spend a greater amount of time integrating these new businesses and less time managing our existing businesses. During these periods, there may be less attention directed to marketing efforts or staffing issues, which could affect our revenues and expenses. For all of these reasons, our historical success in integrating acquired businesses is not a reliable indicator of our ability to do so in the future. If we are not successful in timely and cost-effectively integrating future acquisitions, it could result in decreased revenue, increased costs and lower margins. We continue to face risks in connection with our acquisitions including: • negative effects on our operating results; • impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets; • dependence on retention, hiring and training of key personnel, including specialists; and • contingent and latent risks associated with the past operations of, and other unanticipated problems arising in, an acquired business. The process of integration may require a disproportionate amount of the time and attention of our management, which may distract management’s attention from its day-to-day responsibilities. In addition, any interruption or deterioration in service resulting from an acquisition may result in a customer’s decision to stop using us. For these reasons, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, either at all or in a timely manner. If that happens and we incur significant costs, it could have a material adverse impact on our business. 12 Table of Contents The significant competition in the companion animal healthcare industry could result in a decrease in our prices, an increase in our acquisition costs, a loss of market share and could materially affect our revenue and profitability. The companion animal healthcare industry is highly competitive with few barriers to entry. To compete successfully, we may be required to reduce prices, increase our acquisition and operating costs or take other measures that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, margins and cash flow. In addition, if we are unable to compete successfully, we may lose market share. There are many clinical laboratory companies that provide a broad range of laboratory testing services in the same markets we service. These companies have acquired additional laboratories in the markets in which we operate and may continue their expansion, and aggressively “bundle” their products and services to compete with us. Increased competition may adversely affect our laboratory revenues and margins. Several other national companies develop and sell on-site diagnostic equipment that allows veterinarians to perform their own laboratory tests. Growth of the on-site diagnostic testing market may have an adverse effect on our laboratory revenue. Our primary competitors for our animal hospitals in most markets are individual practitioners or small, regional, multi-clinic practices. Also, regional pet care companies and some national companies, including operators of super-stores, are developing multi-regional networks of animal hospitals in markets in which we operate. Historically, when a competing animal hospital opens in proximity to one of our hospitals, we have reduced prices, expanded our facility, retained additional qualified personnel, increased our marketing efforts or taken other actions designed to retain and expand our client base. As a result, our revenue may decline and our costs may increase. In addition, shifts in the purchasing habits of networks of hospitals could result in limiting or discontinuing the use of our laboratories. A significant component of our annual growth strategy includes the acquisition of independent animal hospitals with aggregate annual revenues of $50.0 million to $60.0 million. The competition for animal hospital acquisitions from small national and regional multi-clinic companies may cause us to increase the amount we pay to acquire additional animal hospitals and may result in fewer acquisitions than anticipated by our growth strategy. If we are unable to acquire a requisite number of animal hospitals annually or if our acquisition costs increase, we may be unable to effectively implement our growth strategy and realize anticipated economies of scale. Our medical technology division is a relatively new entrant in the market for medical imaging equipment in the animal healthcare industry. Our primary competitors are companies that are much larger than us and have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing and research and development resources than we do, including companies such as Siemens Medical Systems, Philips Medical Systems and Canon Medical Systems. The success of our medical technology division, in part, is due to its focus on the veterinary market, which allows it to differentiate its products and services to meet the unique needs of this market. If this market receives more focused attention from these larger competitors, we may find it difficult to compete and as a result our revenues and operating margins could decline. If we fail to compete successfully in this market, the demand for our products and services would decrease. Any reduction in demand could lead to fewer customer orders, pricing pressures, reduced revenues, reduced margins, reduced levels of profitability and loss of market share. These competitive pressures could adversely affect our business and operating results. The carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets could be subject to an impairment write-down. At December 31, 2007, our consolidated balance sheet reflected $822.0 million of goodwill and $22.4 million of other intangible assets, constituting a substantial portion of our total assets of $1.3 billion at that date. We expect that the aggregate amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet will increase as a result of future acquisitions. We continually evaluate whether events or circumstances have occurred that suggest that the fair value of our other intangible assets or each of our reporting units are below their respective carrying values. The determination that the fair value of our intangible assets or one of our reporting units is less than its carrying value may result in an impairment write- 13 Table of Contents down. The impairment write-down would be reflected as expense and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations during the period in which we recognize the expense. Upon completion of our annual review in 2007, we concluded that the fair values of our reporting units exceeded their respective carrying values and accordingly, as of that date, our goodwill as reflected in our consolidated financial statements was not impaired. However, in the future we may incur impairment charges related to the goodwill and other intangible assets already recorded or arising out of future acquisitions. We require a significant amount of cash to service our debt and expand our business as planned. We have, and will continue to have, a substantial amount of debt. Our substantial amount of debt requires us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to pay down our indebtedness and related interest, thereby reducing the funds available to use for capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes. At December 31, 2007, our debt consisted of: • $527.7 million in principal amount outstanding under our senior term notes; and • $32.5 million in principal amount outstanding under capital leases and other debt. Our ability to make payments on our debt, and to fund acquisitions, will depend upon our ability to generate cash in the future. Insufficient cash flow could place us at risk of default under our debt agreements or could prevent us from expanding our business as planned. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, our strategy to increase operating efficiencies may not be realized and future borrowings may not be available to us under our senior credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. A substantial portion of our debt is variable-rate debt that is exposed to interest rate fluctuations. In order to meet our debt obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our failure to satisfy covenants in our debt instruments will cause a default under those instruments. In addition to imposing restrictions on our business and operations, our debt instruments include a number of covenants relating to financial ratios and tests. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. The breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under these instruments. An event of default would permit our lenders and other debtholders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. Moreover, these lenders and other debtholders would have the option to terminate any obligation to make further extensions of credit under these instruments. If we are unable to repay debt to our senior lenders, these lenders and other debtholders could proceed against our assets. Our debt instruments may adversely affect our ability to run our business. Our substantial amount of debt, as well as the guarantees of our subsidiaries and the security interests in our assets and those of our subsidiaries, could impair our ability to operate our business effectively and may limit our ability to take advantage of business opportunities. For example, our senior credit facility may: • limit our ability to borrow additional funds or to obtain other financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to dispose of our assets, create liens on our assets or to extend credit; • make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or industry; • place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors with less debt; and 14 Table of Contents • restrict our ability to pay dividends, repurchase or redeem our capital stock or debt, or merge or consolidate with another entity. The terms of our senior credit facility allow us, under specified conditions, to incur further indebtedness, which would heighten the foregoing risks. If compliance with our debt obligations materially hinders our ability to operate our business and adapt to changing industry conditions, we may lose market share, our revenue may decline and our operating results may suffer. Any failure by the manufacturers of our medical imaging equipment, failure in our ability to develop functional and cost-effective software for our products, or any product malfunctions could result in a decline in customer purchases and a reduction in our revenue and profitability. We do not develop or manufacture the medical imaging equipment that we distribute, except for the software component of our digital radiography machines. Our business in large part is dependent upon distribution agreements with the manufacturers of the equipment, the ability of those manufacturers to produce desirable equipment and to keep pace with advances in technology, our ability to develop cost-effective, functional, and user-friendly software for the digital radiography machines, and the overall rate of new development within the industry. If the distribution agreements terminate or are not renewed, if the manufacturers breach their covenants under these agreements, if the equipment manufactured by these manufacturers or our software becomes less competitive or if there is a general decrease in the rate of new development within the industry, demand for our products and services would decrease. In addition, because the products represent a significant capital investment for our customers, an adverse change in the economy or the current tax law could also negatively impact the demand for these products and services. Any reduction in demand could lead to fewer customer orders, pricing pressures, reduced revenues, reduced margins, reduced levels of profitability and loss of market share. Manufacturing flaws, component failures, design defects, or inadequate disclosure of product-related information could result in an unsafe condition or injury. These problems could result in product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that our products have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury. In addition, an adverse event involving one of our products could result in reduced market acceptance and demand for all of our products, and could harm our reputation and our ability to market our products in the future. Any of the foregoing problems could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our use of self-insurance, self-insured retention and high-deductible insurance programs to cover certain claims for losses suffered and costs or expenses incurred could negatively impact our business upon the occurrence of an uninsured and/or significant event. We self-insure and use high retention or high deductible insurance programs with regard to property risks, general, professional and employment practice liabilities, health benefits, including executive post-retirement health benefits, and workers’ compensation when the lack of availability and/or the high cost of commercially available insurance products do not render the transfer of this risk economically feasible. In the event that the frequency of losses experienced by us increased unexpectedly, the aggregate of such losses could materially increase our liability and adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, cash flows and results of operations. In addition, while the insurance market continues to limit the availability of certain insurance products while increasing the costs of such products, we will continue to evaluate the levels of claims we include in our self-insured, self-insured retention and/or high-deductible insurance programs. Any increases to these programs increase our risk of exposure and therefore increases the risk of a possible material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, cash flows and results of operations. In addition, we have made certain judgments as to the limits on our existing insurance coverage that we believe are in line with industry standards, as well as in light of economic and availability considerations. Unforeseen catastrophic loss scenarios could prove our limits to be inadequate, and losses incurred in connection with the known claims we self-insure could be substantial. Either of these circumstances could materially adversely affect our financial and business condition. 15 Table of Contents We may experience difficulties hiring skilled veterinarians due to shortages that could disrupt our business. As the pet population continues to grow, the need for skilled veterinarians continues to increase. If we are unable to retain an adequate number of skilled veterinarians, we may lose customers, our revenue may decline and we may need to sell or close animal hospitals. At December 31, 2007, there were 28 veterinary schools in the country accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association. These schools graduate approximately 2,100 veterinarians per year. There is a shortage of skilled veterinarians in some regional markets in which we operate animal hospitals. During shortages in these regions, we may be unable to hire enough qualified veterinarians to adequately staff our animal hospitals, in which event we may lose market share and our revenues and profitability may decline. If we fail to comply with governmental regulations applicable to our business, various governmental agencies may impose fines, institute litigation or preclude us from operating in certain states. The laws of many states prohibit business corporations from providing, or holding themselves out as providers of, veterinary-medical care. At December 31, 2007, we operated 143 animal hospitals in 14 states with these laws, including 43 in Texas, 31 in Washington and 22 in New York. In addition, our mobile imaging service also operates in states with these laws. We may experience difficulty in expanding our operations into other states with similar laws. Given varying and uncertain interpretations of the veterinary laws of each state, we may not be in compliance with restrictions on the corporate practice of veterinary medicine in all states. A determination that we are in violation of applicable restrictions on the practice of veterinary medicine in any state in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on us, particularly if we are unable to restructure our operations to comply with the requirements of that state. All of the states in which we operate impose various registration requirements. To fulfill these requirements, we have registered each of our facilities with appropriate governmental agencies and, where required, have appointed a licensed veterinarian to act on behalf of each facility. All veterinarians practicing in our clinics are required to maintain valid state licenses to practice. We may have to write-off certain capitalized software development costs. If we are unable to realize the benefits of internally developed software, we may be required to write-off a portion or all of the associated capitalized costs, which may have an adverse effect on our operating results in the period in which we incur the write-off. We are currently in the process of internally developing software that will be used in our animal hospitals. Costs related directly to the software design, coding, testing and installation are capitalized and will be amortized over the expected life of the software when it is deployed. The loss of Mr. Robert Antin, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, could materially and adversely affect our business. We are dependent upon the management and leadership of our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Robert Antin. We have an employment contract with Mr. Antin that may be terminated at the option of Mr. Antin. We do not maintain any key man life insurance coverage for Mr. Antin. The loss of Mr. Antin could materially adversely affect our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 