Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto before making a decision to purchase our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or not presently deemed material by us, may also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If that happens, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Structure Our primary unsecured creditors can or have accelerated the maturity of the amounts outstanding under our unsecured debt agreements with them due to certain financial covenant breaches by us Our primary unsecured debt arrangements consist of the Credit Facility, privately placed unsecured notes (the “Private Unsecured Notes”) and publicly registered unsecured notes (the “Public Unsecured Notes” and collectively with the Credit Facility and Private Unsecured Notes, the “Unsecured Debt Obligations”). The Credit Facility is administered by an affiliate of Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, and had an outstanding principal balance of $1,388 million as of December 31, 2009. The aggregate outstanding principal balance of the Private Unsecured Notes and the Public Unsecured Notes was $414 million and $550 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2009. Certain financial covenants under each of the Unsecured Debt Obligations were breached as of December 31, 2008. Under the terms of the Unsecured Debt Obligations, the respective creditors may accelerate the maturity date of the obligations outstanding under the respective agreements during the continuation of such defaults. On August 28, 2009, the holders of the Private Unsecured Notes exercised such right, by declaring the unpaid principal amount of the notes outstanding, plus all accrued and unpaid interest and the respective make-whole interest amount for each series if applicable, immediately due and payable. However, in September 2009, we entered into forbearance agreements with all of these noteholders under which the noteholders agreed to forbear from exercising certain rights and remedies with respect to the events of default existing under their respective series. The holders of a majority in principal amount of the notes outstanding under each series may terminate the forbearance agreement for the series at any time. In November 2009, we reached an agreement in principle with a steering committee of the lenders under the Credit Facility regarding the proposed Restructuring. Representatives of the holders of the Private Unsecured Notes and the Public Unsecured Notes and their advisors participated with the bank steering committee in certain negotiations with respect to the proposed Restructuring. We subsequently entered into a lock up agreement with all of the lenders under the Credit Facility to help further our efforts to complete the proposed Restructuring. 21 Table of Contents The lock up agreement generally requires all of the lenders under the Credit Facility to agree to the proposed Restructuring pursuant to the Exchange Transaction or the Plan, assuming specified conditions are met. Unless extended, the lock up agreement will terminate if the proposed Restructuring is not completed by certain dates, as described more fully herein. Under the lock up agreement, the lenders under the Credit Facility also agreed to forbear from exercising their remedies resulting from defaults by us under the Credit Facility, until the occurrence of certain events, including the voluntary or involuntary commencement of a Restructuring Case, the acceleration of the maturity of the Public Unsecured Notes or the termination of our forbearance agreement with the holders of the Private Unsecured Notes. Unless extended, the lock up agreement may be terminated if the proposed Restructuring is not completed by certain dates, as described more fully herein. We do not have a lock up agreement with our other primary unsecured creditors, or a forbearance agreement with the holders of the Public Unsecured Notes. If any of our primary unsecured creditors, including our lenders under the Credit Facility or the holders of the Private Unsecured Notes following the termination of their forbearance agreements, exercise their rights and remedies against us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. For example, if any such creditors declared that all amounts outstanding under their debt arrangement with us were immediately due and payable, it is likely that our other primary unsecured creditors would also accelerate the maturity of the obligations outstanding under their debt agreements. In such case, we would probably not have sufficient funds available to repay such obligations in full or be able to obtain additional or alternative financing to repay or refinance such debt, and would likely commence a Restructuring Case. We may not successfully restructure our Unsecured Debt Obligations Under the terms of our agreement in principle with the lenders under the Credit Facility, both the Private Unsecured Notes and the Public Unsecured Notes must be restructured on similar terms. To consummate the proposed Restructuring through the Exchange Transaction, we need the consent of 100% of the lenders under our Credit Facility, 100% of the holders of our Private Unsecured Notes and holders of 85% of the principal amount of our Unsecured Public Notes. We have a lock up agreement with all of the lenders under the Credit Facility, which generally requires the lenders to agree to the proposed Restructuring assuming specified conditions are met. However, the lock up agreement may be terminated if various stages of the proposed Restructuring are not completed by certain dates. Because we have not launched the Exchange Transaction as of the date of this filing, it is likely that we will be unable to complete the Exchange Transaction by the specified deadline. Thus, the lock up agreement may be terminated, unless the parties agree to extend it. In addition, we also do not have a lock up agreement with the holders of our Private Unsecured Notes or our Public Unsecured Notes. In the absence of lock up agreements with holders of each of the classes of our Unsecured Debt Obligations, there can be no assurance that the requisite of holders of each of our Unsecured Debt Obligations will approve the Exchange Transaction or approve the Plan. If we are unable to successfully restructure our Unsecured Debt Obligations through the Exchange Transaction or the Plan, our primary unsecured creditors may terminate their forbearance agreements, if any, and enforce their rights and remedies as unsecured creditors against us which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are successful in restructuring our unsecured debt agreements, the new debt arrangements could result in terms less favorable than the current proposed Restructuring If we are successful in restructuring our Unsecured Debt Obligations, there is no assurance it will be on the terms in the current proposed Restructuring. We may have to agree to less favorable terms including interest rate, amortization and covenants. There can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash flow from our operations, including the sale of investments, to meet the terms of a restructured debt agreement. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has concluded that substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern Our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 and for the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009 were prepared on a “going concern” basis; however, our independent registered 22 Table of Contents public accounting firm concluded in its report dated March 1, 2010 regarding those consolidated financial statements, that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern as a result of not being in compliance with certain covenants under our Unsecured Debt Obligations and receiving event of default notices from the holders of such obligations and being below the 200% asset coverage ratio under the 1940 Act, which impacts our ability to issue new debt. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recovery and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. We have been impacted by a period of credit and capital markets disruption and recession There have been traumatic developments in the financial markets worldwide over the past two years which have led to a recession in the U.S. and other countries. We have been adversely affected by these conditions. The recession and global financial crisis has limited our access to the debt and equity capital markets and resulted in significant depreciation of our investment portfolio and overleveraging of our balance sheet. The market disruption and liquidity crisis has also dramatically reduced the volume of mergers and acquisitions in the market place affecting our ability to continue to generate additional liquidity through sales of portfolio investments. Thus, we expect to continue to face significant challenges and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and prospects. Our business has significant capital requirements and may be adversely affected by a prolonged inability to access the capital markets or to sell assets Our business requires a substantial amount of capital to operate. We historically have financed our operations, including the funding of new investments, through cash generated by our operating activities, the sale of investments, the sale of debt by special purpose affiliates to which we have contributed loan assets originated by us, unsecured borrowings by us and the sale of our equity. Our ability to continue to rely on such sources or other sources of capital is affected by the overleveraging of our balance sheet and the changes in the capital markets from the financial crisis. It is also affected by legal, structural and other factors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to access the funds necessary for our liquidity requirements. The economic recession has adversely affected our business and a continuation of the adverse market and economic conditions could cause further harm to our operating results The economic recession had a significant negative impact on the fair value of our portfolio investments evidenced by the significant net unrealized depreciation on our portfolio investments during 2008 and 2009. In addition, many of our portfolio companies are susceptible to the current economic downturn and may be unable to repay our debt investments, may be unable to be sold at a price that we could recover our investment, or even continue to operate during such periods. As a result, our non-performing assets have increased and may continue to increase and the value of our portfolio has decreased and may continue to decrease during an economic downturn. Our ability to obtain capital to invest in existing and new portfolio investments has also been impaired by the economic downturn. These results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have loans to and investments in middle market borrowers who may default on their loans or provide no return on our investments We have invested in and made loans to privately-held, middle market businesses. There is generally no publicly available information about these businesses. Therefore, we rely on our principals, associates, analysts and consultants to investigate and monitor these businesses. The portfolio companies in which we have invested may have significant variations in operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, to finance expansion or to maintain their competitive position, may otherwise have a weak financial position or may be adversely affected by changes in the business cycle. Our portfolio companies may not meet net income, cash flow and other coverage tests typically imposed 23 Table of Contents by senior lenders. Numerous factors may affect a portfolio company’s ability to repay its loan, including the failure to meet its business plan, a downturn in its industry or negative economic conditions, such as the current recession. Deterioration in a portfolio company’s financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in the collateral for the loan. We have also made unsecured, subordinated loans and invested in equity securities, which involve a higher degree of risk than senior loans. In certain cases, our involvement in the management of our portfolio companies may subject us to additional defenses and claims from borrowers and third parties. These conditions may make it difficult for us to obtain repayment of our investments. Middle market businesses typically have narrower product lines and smaller market shares than large businesses. They tend to be more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. In addition, these companies may face intense competition, including competition from companies with greater financial resources, more extensive development, manufacturing, marketing, and other capabilities, and a larger number of qualified managerial and technical personnel. These businesses may also experience substantial variations in operating results. Typically, the success of a middle market business also depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons. The death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on us. In addition, middle market businesses often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and will have borrowed money from other lenders with claims that are senior to us. Our senior loans generally are secured by the assets of our borrowers. Our subordinated loans may or may not be secured by the assets of the borrower; however, if a subordinated loan is secured, our rights to payment and our security interest are usually subordinated to the payment rights and security interests of the senior lender. Therefore, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights to collect our subordinated loans and to recover any of the loan balance through a foreclosure of collateral. There is uncertainty regarding the value of our portfolio investments A substantial portion of our portfolio investments are not publicly traded. We value these investments based on a determination of their fair value made in good faith by our Board of Directors as required by law. Due to the uncertainty inherent in valuing investments that are not publicly traded, as set forth in our consolidated financial statements, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would exist if a ready market for these investments existed. Our determinations of the fair value of our investments have a material impact on our net earnings through the recording of unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments as well as our assessment of income recognition. Our NAV could be materially affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments are materially different from the values that would exist if a ready market existed for these securities. We may fail to continue to qualify for our pass-through tax treatment We operate so as to qualify to be taxed as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code and, provided we meet certain requirements under the Code, we can generally avoid corporate level federal income taxes on income distributed to our shareholders as dividends. We would cease to qualify for this favorable pass-through tax treatment if we are unable to comply with the source of income, asset diversification or distribution requirements contained in Subchapter M of the Code, or if we cease to operate so as to qualify as a BDC under the 1940 Act. There is a risk that we will continue to sell select investments in order to delever our balance sheet over the next several years, and if so, a smaller investment portfolio may make it difficult for us to continue to meet the source of income or asset diversification requirements in order to maintain our qualification as a RIC. If we fail to qualify to be taxed as a RIC or to distribute our income to shareholders on a current basis, we would be subject to corporate level taxes which would significantly reduce the amount of income available for distribution to our shareholders. The loss of our RIC qualification could have a material adverse effect on the total return, if any, obtainable from an investment in our common stock. See “Business—Business Development Company Requirements” and “Business—Regulated Investment Company Requirements.” 24 Table of Contents A change in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability Because we have funded a portion of our investments with borrowings, our net increase in assets from operations is affected by the spread between the rate at which we have invested and the rate at which we borrowed. We have attempted to match-fund our liabilities and assets by financing floating rate assets with floating rate liabilities and fixed rate assets with fixed rate liabilities or equity. We have entered into interest rate basis swap agreements to match the interest rate basis of our assets and liabilities, thereby locking in the spread between our asset yield and the cost of our borrowings, and to fulfill our obligations under the terms of our asset securitizations. However, our derivatives are considered economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting under the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (“SFAS No. 133”), which is codified in Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging (“ASC 815”). Under our interest rate swap agreements, we generally pay a fixed rate and receive a floating interest rate based on LIBOR. We may enter into interest rate swaption agreements where, if exercised, we would receive a fixed rate and pay a floating rate based on LIBOR. We may also enter into interest rate cap agreements that would entitle us to receive an amount, if any, by which our interest payments on our variable rate debt exceed specified interest rates. An increase or decrease in interest rates could reduce the spread between the rate at which we invest and the rate at which we borrow, and thus, adversely affect our profitability, if we have not appropriately match-funded our liabilities and assets or hedged against such event. Alternatively, our interest rate hedging activities may limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Also, the fair value of certain of our debt investments is based in part on the current market yields or interest rates of similar securities. A change in interest rates could have a significant impact on our determination of the fair value of these debt investments. In addition, a change in interest rates could also have an impact on the fair value of our interest rate swap agreements that could result in the recording of unrealized appreciation or depreciation in future periods. For example, a decline, or a flattening, of the forward interest rate yield curve will typically result in the recording of unrealized depreciation of our interest rate swap agreements. Therefore, adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Management’s Discussion And Analysis Of Financial Condition And Results Of Operations—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information on interest rate swap agreements. A change in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our profitability We have or may make investments in debt instruments that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, we have or may make investments in the equity of portfolio companies whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. Our domestic portfolio companies may also transact a significant amount of business in foreign countries and therefore their profitability may be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The functional currency of our largest portfolio company, European Capital, is the Euro. European Capital also has investments in other European currencies, including the British Pound. As a result, an adverse change in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results We have and could experience further fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors including, among others, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, the ability to sell investments at 25 Table of Contents attractive terms, the ability to fund and close suitable investments, the timing of the recognition of fee income from closing investment transactions and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We are dependent upon our key management personnel for our future success We are dependent on the diligence and skill of our senior management and other members of management for raising capital and the selection, structuring, monitoring, restructuring/amendment and sale of our investments. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of our senior management and other members of management. Due to such factors as limitations on our ability to raise capital for new investments or the uncertainty surrounding our ability to exist as a going concern due to the default under certain of our debt obligations, it may be difficult to retain such individuals. The departure of certain executive officers or key employees could materially adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our officers or employees. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities We compete with hundreds of private equity and subordinated funds and other financing sources, including traditional financial services companies such as finance companies, commercial banks, investment banks and other equity and non-equity based investment funds. Some of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial resources than us. Competitors may have lower cost of funds and many have access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, certain of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships and build their market shares. There is no assurance that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that satisfy our investment objectives or that we will be able to meet our investment goals. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations or our failure to comply with those laws or regulations may adversely affect our business We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws at the local, state, federal and foreign level. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Accordingly, any change in these laws or regulations or the failure to comply with these laws or regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business. Certain of these laws and regulations pertain specifically to RICs or BDCs. We could face losses and potential liability if intrusions, viruses or similar disruptions to our technology jeopardize our confidential information or that of users of our technology Although we have implemented, and will continue to implement, security measures, our technology platform is and will continue to be vulnerable to intrusion, computer viruses or similar disruptive problems caused by transmission from unauthorized users. In addition, any misappropriation of proprietary information could expose us to a risk of loss or litigation. 26 Table of Contents Risks Related to Liquidity and Capital Resources If we are successful in restructuring our primary unsecured debt agreements, the new agreements could place significant limitations on us If we are successful in restructuring our Unsecured Debt Obligations on the terms of the proposed Restructuring discussed above, the new restructured debt obligations would be secured by a pledge of substantially all of our existing unencumbered assets and impose additional covenants upon us, including a limitation on our ability to enter into new debt financing, pay cash dividends and fund new investments. We will likely be required from time to time to use a portion of our excess operating cash flow and proceeds from the sale of investments to pay down outstanding balances under the proposed Restructuring. Also, certain of the proceeds received from any debt or equity capital raises could be required to pay down outstanding balances under the proposed Restructuring. As a result, our ability to utilize our excess cash flow, investment sale proceeds or capital raising proceeds for reinvestment purposes would be limited. In addition, under the terms of the proposed Restructuring, the restructured debt obligations will have financial covenants such as maintaining a minimum ratio of operating cash flow to interest expense and a minimum ratio of pledged assets to the secured debt. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain any such future minimum financial covenant thresholds and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our existing secured borrowing arrangements impose certain limitations on us As of December 31, 2009, we had loans outstanding under secured private term debt (“Term Debt Notes”) issued by our consolidated trusts to institutional investors. Each of these borrowing arrangements is described below. Trusts affiliated with us have issued Term Debt Notes to institutional investors with an outstanding balance of $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2009. These affiliated trusts are consolidated in our financial statements. These securities contain customary default provisions, as well as the following default provisions: a failure on our part, as the originator of the loans securing the Term Debt Notes or as the servicer of these loans, to make any payment or deposit required under related agreements within two business days after the date the payment or deposit is required to be made, or if we alter or amend our credit and collection policy in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on the holders of the Term Debt Notes or the voluntary or involuntary commencement of a case against us under Title eleven of the United States Code. As a BDC, the 1940 Act generally limits our ability to issue Senior Securities if our asset coverage ratio does not exceed 200% after each issuance of Senior Securities. As a BDC, the 1940 Act generally limits our ability to issue Senior Securities if our asset coverage ratio does not exceed 200% after each issuance of Senior Securities. Asset coverage ratio is defined in the 1940 Act as the ratio which the value of the total assets, less all liabilities and indebtedness not represented by Senior Securities, bears to the aggregate amount of Senior Securities representing indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, our asset coverage ratio was 156%. Accordingly, we are prohibited from issuing any additional Senior Securities other than for the purpose of immediately repaying existing debt, until our asset coverage ratio exceeds 200%, except for temporary borrowings that are repaid within 60 days and, limited to no more than 5% of our total assets. These provisions limit our access to funding to operate our business and may have a material adverse affect on our business operations. As a BDC, the 1940 Act generally limits our ability to issue equity below our NAV per share Because we are subject to regulatory restrictions on the amount of debt we can issue, we are dependent on the issuance of equity as a financing source. As a BDC, we are generally not able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below our NAV per share, exclusive of any distributing commission or discount, without shareholder approval. As of December 31, 2009, our NAV per share was $8.29 per share and our closing market price was $2.44 per share. On February 12, 2010, our shareholders approved a proposal to authorize us to sell shares of our common stock at prices below our NAV per share in one or more offerings subject to certain 27 Table of Contents limitations, including the prior approval of our Board of Directors. The authorization is effective for a twelve month period expiring on February 12, 2011 and the number of shares that may be issued below NAV per share is limited to 58.3 million shares of common stock, which was 20% of the number of shares outstanding as of the record date for the proposal, subject to adjustment for shares issued following the occurrence of events such as stock splits, stock dividends, distributions and recapitalizations. However, even with such approval, there can be no assurances that we can issue equity when necessary. In addition, even if we were to issue equity at a price below our NAV per share, it could result in a dilution in our NAV per share, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Out interest rate swap agreements contain covenants that place limitations on us We enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage interest rate risk and also to fulfill our obligations under the terms of our asset securitizations. Certain of our interest rate swap agreements contain an event of default that allows the counterparty to terminate transactions outstanding under the agreement following the occurrence of a cross default on certain of our other indebtedness in amounts equal to or greater than $5 million to $15 million, as applicable. Certain of our interest rate swap agreements also contain an event of default that allows a counterparty to terminate transactions outstanding under the agreement if certain of our other indebtedness in amounts equal to or greater than $5 million or $15 million, as applicable, is accelerated. In addition, one of our interest rate swap agreements provides that, if our unsecured debt rating falls below BB- as rated by Fitch Ratings, BB- as rated by Standard & Poor’s Rating Services or Ba3 by Moody’s Investors Services, Inc., the counterparty may terminate transactions outstanding under the agreement. Certain of our interest rate swap agreements also provide that, if the Credit Facility is terminated, or the counterparty does not continue to be a lender under the Credit Facility, and we do not post collateral for our derivative obligations related to this counterparty or make arrangements for the counterparty to transfer its rights and obligations under the interest rate swap agreement within 30 days, the counterparty may terminate the transactions outstanding under the agreement. As of December 31, 2009, we were not in compliance with the above covenants for certain of our interest rate swap agreements. While this event of default has occurred, one of our counterparties has elected to terminate its agreement with us and our remaining counterparties have not elected to terminate their agreements with us. For the agreement that was terminated, the settlement amount claimed by the counterparty is $13 million, and it was not settled as of December 31, 2009. For our other interest rate swap agreements, the settlement amount was $43 million as of December 31, 2009. If our counterparties elected to terminate their agreements with us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The lack of liquidity of our privately-held securities may adversely affect our business Most of our investments consist of securities acquired directly from their issuers in private transactions. Some of these securities are subject to restrictions on resale or otherwise are less liquid than public securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to obtain cash equal to the value at which we record our investments if the need arises. Risks Related to Our Investing and Financing Strategy We have and may incur additional debt that could increase your investment risks We or our consolidated affiliates borrow money or issue debt securities to provide us with additional funds to invest. Our lenders have fixed dollar claims on our assets or the assets of our consolidated affiliates that are senior to the claims of our shareholders and, thus, our lenders have preference over our shareholders with respect to these assets. In particular, the assets that our consolidated affiliates have pledged to lenders under the Term Debt Notes were sold or contributed to separate affiliated statutory trusts prior to such pledge. While we own a 28 Table of Contents beneficial interest in these trusts, these assets are the property of the respective trusts, available to satisfy the debts of the trusts, and would only become available for distribution to our shareholders to the extent specifically permitted under the agreements governing those Term Debt Notes. See “Risk Factors—Our secured borrowing arrangements impose certain limitations on us.” Additionally, under the terms of the proposed Restructuring, we would need to grant a security interest in substantially all of our other unencumbered assets to those lenders. The following table is designed to illustrate the effect on returns to a holder of our common stock of the leverage created by our use of borrowing, at the weighted average interest rate of 5.9% for the year ended December 31, 2009, and assuming hypothetical annual returns on our portfolio of minus 15% to plus 15%. As can be seen, leverage generally increases the return to shareholders when the portfolio return is positive and decreases return when the portfolio return is negative. Actual returns may be greater or less than those appearing in the table. Assumed Return on Portfolio (Net of Expenses)(1) -15.0 % -10.0 % -5.0 % — 5.0 % 10.0 % 15.0 % Corresponding Return to Common Shareholders(2) -29.5 % -17.0 % -4.4 % 8.1 % 20.7 % 33.2 % 45.7 % (1) The assumed portfolio return is required by regulation of the SEC and is not a prediction of, and does not represent, our projected or actual performance. (2) In order to compute the “Corresponding Return to Common Shareholders,” the “Assumed Return on Portfolio” is multiplied by the total value of our assets at the beginning of the period to obtain an assumed return to us. From this amount, all interest expense accrued during the period is subtracted to determine the return available to shareholders. The return available to shareholders is then divided by the total value of our net assets as of the beginning of the period to determine the “Corresponding Return to Common Shareholders.” Although borrowing money for investment increases the potential for gain, it also increases the risk of a loss. A decrease in the value of our investments will have a sharper impact on our NAV if we borrow money to make investments. Our ability to pay dividends could also be adversely impacted. In addition, our ability to pay dividends or incur additional indebtedness is restricted if asset coverage is not equal to at least twice our indebtedness. We currently have a non-investment grade corporate credit rating and we could experience further downgrades As of December 31, 2009, our corporate credit rating was B2, B- and C by Moody’s Investor Services, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Fitch Ratings, respectively, which represents a downgrade from Baa3, BBB and BBB, respectively, as of December 31, 2008. Any rating below BBB or Baa2 is considered non-investment grade. If these credit ratings were to not improve or even be further downgraded, our ability to refinance or raise additional debt, particularly at attractive rates, could be negatively impacted. Any of these occurrences could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our credit ratings may not reflect all risks of an investment in our debt securities Our credit ratings are an assessment by major debt rating agencies of our ability to pay our obligations. Consequently, actual or expected changes in our credit ratings will likely affect the market value of our publicly issued debt securities. Our credit ratings, however, may not fully or accurately reflect all of the credit and market risks associated with our publicly issued debt securities. 29 Table of Contents We may have to sell our investments at prices lower than our current fair values or at prices lower than we could receive in future periods We may need to generate liquidity in our portfolio in order to meet principal amortization payments under the terms of the proposed Restructuring of our Unsecured Debt Obligations. We may also need to generate liquidity to meet our current operating and financing costs or to fund any cash dividend to our shareholders to maintain our qualification as a RIC. In order to generate current liquidity, we may need to sell our debt and/or equity investments at prices lower than our current fair values or at prices lower than we could realize in future periods if we were to continue to hold the investments. We may not realize gains from our equity investments We invest in equity interests with the goal to realize gains from the disposition of the interests. These equity interests may not appreciate in value and, in fact, have depreciated in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests. Failure to deploy capital effectively or obtain financing to make additional investments may reduce our return on equity If we fail to invest new capital effectively, or obtain additional funds to grow, our return on equity may be negatively impacted, which could reduce the price of the securities that you own. Our portfolio companies may be highly leveraged Leverage may have important adverse consequences to our portfolio companies and to us as an investor. Portfolio companies that are leveraged may be subject to restrictive financial and operating covenants. The leverage may impair these companies’ ability to finance their future operations and capital needs. As a result, their flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to business opportunities may be limited. A leveraged company’s income and net assets will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if borrowed money were not used. Investment in non-investment grade Structured Products may be illiquid, may have a higher risk of default, and may not produce current returns Our investments in Structured Product securities are generally non-investment grade, which means that major rating agencies rate them below the top four investment-grade rating categories (i.e., “AAA” through “BBB”), and are sometimes referred to as “junk bonds.” Non-investment grade Structured Product bonds and preferred shares tend to be less liquid, may have a higher risk of default and may be more difficult to value. Economic recessions or downturns may cause defaults or losses on collateral securities to increase. Non-investment grade securities are considered speculative, and their capacity to pay principal and interest in accordance with the terms of their issue is not certain. Our assets include investments in Structured Products which are subordinate in right of payment to more senior securities Our assets include subordinated CMBS, CLO and CDO securities which are the most subordinate class of securities in a structure of securities secured by a pool of loans and accordingly are the first to bear the loss upon a restructuring or liquidation of the underlying collateral and the last to receive payment of interest and principal. The economic recession has caused defaults on the underlying collateral to increase; therefore we do not expect to recover the full amount of our initial investment in such subordinated interests. Additionally, estimated fair values of these subordinated interests tend to be more sensitive to changes in economic conditions than more senior securities. As a result, such subordinated interests generally are not actively traded and may not provide holders thereof with liquid investments. 30 Table of Contents The trading market or market value of our publicly issued debt securities may fluctuate Our publicly issued debt securities do not have an established trading market. There is no assurance that a trading market for our publicly issued debt securities will ever develop or be maintained if developed. Additionally, many factors may materially adversely affect the trading market for, and market value of, our publicly issued debt securities including, but not limited to, the following: • current or future defaults under the securities; • the success or failure of the current restructuring efforts; • our creditworthiness; • the time remaining to the maturity of these debt securities; • the outstanding principal amount of debt securities with terms identical to these debt securities; • the supply of debt securities trading in the secondary market, if any; • the redemption or repayment features, if any, of these debt securities; • the level, direction and volatility of market interest rates generally; and • market rates of interest that are higher or lower than rates borne by the debt securities. There may also be a limited number of buyers when an investor decides to sell its debt securities. This too may materially adversely affect the market value of the debt securities or the trading market for the debt securities. Risks Related to Our Common Stock There is a risk that you may not receive dividends Since our IPO, we have distributed and currently intend to distribute more than 90% of our investment company ordinary taxable income to our shareholders in order to continue to qualify as a RIC and have distributed and currently intend to distribute sufficient dividends to eliminate our investment company taxable income and capital gains. However, due to the global financial and liquidity crisis, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient liquidity to pay these amounts by the required dates to maintain our qualification as a RIC and to eliminate all of our investment company ordinary taxable income. Historically, we have declared a dividend for each quarter since our IPO in 1997. However, in the fourth quarter of 2008, we revised our dividend policy to manage our capital base proactively in the volatile markets. Our Board of Directors will evaluate the declaration of our quarterly dividend after our financial results are determined each quarter, so that we may more precisely assess our taxable income, cash flow and changes in fair value to better manage our capital in the current volatile markets. In June 2009, we declared a dividend of $1.07 per share, which was paid part in cash and stock in August 2009. We have not declared any other dividends since the third quarter of 2008. Pursuant to applicable tax regulations, we are also required to include in taxable income certain amounts that have not yet been collected in cash such as payment-in-kind interest or original issue discount accretion. Since we may be required to recognize taxable income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the requirement to distribute at least 90% of our investment company ordinary taxable income to continue to qualify as a RIC. As a RIC, we could elect to retain our net long-term capital gains and pay a federal income tax on such gains on behalf of our shareholders treating them as a deemed distribution for tax purposes. In two of our last three tax years, we have elected to retain our long-term capital gains and pay the federal income tax on behalf of our shareholders instead of distributing the net long-term capital gains as a cash dividend to our shareholders. 31 Table of Contents There may be a risk that we will generate taxable income in future periods that is significantly lower than in prior periods or there may be a risk that we do not generate any taxable income in future periods, which could result in significantly reduced dividends, if any, in future periods as compared to historical levels. We had a net capital loss carryforward of approximately $152 million for our tax year ending September 30, 2009, which may be carried forward for up to eight years. To the extent we generate future long-term taxable capital gains, our requirement to distribute those gains as dividends will be reduced by the amount of our net capital loss carryforward. We may also realize losses on certain of our debt investments that could qualify as taxable ordinary losses under Section 166 or Section 1221 of the Code. As of December 31, 2009, our total debt investment portfolio had accumulated net unrealized depreciation of $742 million. In future periods, we could realize losses on certain of these debt investments that could qualify as taxable ordinary losses, which could significantly reduce our taxable ordinary income in future periods or could even result in us incurring a taxable ordinary loss in future periods. To the extent our taxable ordinary income is reduced from ordinary losses on the realization of our debt investments, the amount of our taxable ordinary income that we are required to distribute to our shareholders as dividends to maintain our qualification as a RIC or to eliminate our taxable income would be reduced. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will allow any specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. There is a risk that you may receive our stock as dividends Under the 1940 Act, if a BDC has any senior debt investments outstanding that were publicly issued, the BDC must make provision to prohibit the declaration of any dividend (except a dividend payable in the stock of the BDC) if its asset coverage ratio is below certain thresholds at the time of the distribution after deducting the amount of such dividend. As of December 31, 2009, our asset coverage ratio was 156%. We have received guidance from the staff of the SEC that notwithstanding this provision of the 1940 Act, we are able to declare and pay dividends pursuant to a revenue procedure issued by the IRS. On January 7, 2009, the IRS issued revenue procedure Revenue Procedure 2009-15, which temporarily allows a RIC to distribute its own stock as a dividend for the purpose of fulfilling its distribution requirements. Pursuant to this revenue procedure, we may treat a distribution of our stock as a dividend if (i) the stock is publicly traded on an established securities market, (ii) the distribution is declared with respect to a taxable year ending on or before December 31, 2009, and (iii) each shareholder may elect to receive his or her entire distribution in either cash or our stock subject to a limitation on the aggregate amount of cash to be distributed to all shareholders, which must be at least 10% of the aggregate declared distribution. If too many shareholders elect to receive cash, each shareholder electing to receive cash will receive a pro rata amount of cash (with the balance of the distribution paid in stock). In no event would any shareholder electing to receive cash receive less than 10% of his or her entire distribution in cash. On December 23, 2009, the IRS issued Revenue Procedure 2010-12, which extends under similar terms the temporary guidance provided by Revenue Procedure 2009-15. This new guidance applies to distributions by a RIC of its own stock declared by December 31, 2012 with respect to RIC distribution requirements for taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2011. Future dividends with respect to a taxable year ending on or before December 31, 2011, if any, may be paid in shares of our common stock, subject to the limitations discussed above. Under the proposed Restructuring of our Unsecured Debt Obligations, the new credit agreement and indenture may contain a covenant that will restrict our ability, under certain circumstances, to pay cash dividends. We would be permitted to pay cash dividends only: (i) to the extent required to maintain our status as a RIC and eliminate our taxable income so long as we pay a portion of such dividends in shares of our common stock to the maximum level permitted by applicable law, or (ii) if our asset coverage is at least 200% after giving effect to such cash dividends and we are not in default under the agreements and the aggregate principal amount of the restructured debt is equal to or less than $1.4 billion. 32 Table of Contents Future equity financings may be on terms adverse to shareholder interests We have issued, and may issue in the future, equity capital to help fund our operations and to make investments. As noted above, our shareholders approved a proposal at a special meeting on February 12, 2010 that extended the authority allowing us to sell shares of common stock below NAV per share subject to certain limitations. We issued shares of common stock below our NAV per share in the first quarter of 2009 in connection with our acquisition of those shares of European Capital that we did not own. If we issue any additional shares of common stock below our NAV per share, the interests of our existing shareholders may be further diluted. The following table is designed to illustrate the dilutive effect on NAV per share if we issue additional shares of common stock below our NAV per share. The table below reflects NAV per share diluted for the issuance of 58.3 million shares of common stock, which is the maximum number of shares that we have authority from our shareholders to issue below NAV per share at hypothetical sales prices of 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25% and 50% below the December 31, 2009 NAV per share of $8.29. Assumed Sales price per share below NAV(1) -50 % -25 % -20 % -15 % -10 % -5 % Diluted NAV per share $ 7.58 $ 7.94 $ 8.01 $ 8.08 $ 8.15 $ 8.22 % Dilution -8.6 % -4.3 % -3.4 % -2.6 % -1.7 % -0.9 % (1) The assumed sales price per share is assumed to be net of any applicable underwriting commissions or discounts. If we cannot meet NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements, NASDAQ may delist our common stock, which would have an adverse impact on the liquidity and market price of our common stock. Our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market. Under NASDAQ rules, a stock can be delisted and not allowed to trade on NASDAQ if the closing bid price of the stock over a 30 consecutive trading-day period is less than $1.00 per share. Since the beginning of the financial markets crisis, we have and continue to experience significant volatility, including substantial decreases, in the price of our common stock. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the low closing price of our common stock as reported on The NASDAQ Global Select Market was $0.58 per share and the closing price on December 31, 2009 was $2.44 per share. There is a risk that the share price of our common stock could decline further if we are unsuccessful in restructuring our Unsecured Debt Obligations that are in default or if the depressed state of the economy and credit and capital markets continue to impact our operations. There could then be a risk that the share price of our common stock could fall below the minimum listing requirement, and thus be delisted from NASDAQ. A delisting of our common stock could negatively impact us by reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock and the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly The market price and marketability of shares of our securities may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors, including many over which we have no control and that may not be directly related to us. These factors include the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the stock market from time to time, which are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies; • failure to successfully complete the restructuring of our debt facilities; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of RICs, BDCs or other companies in our sector, which is not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; • changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs or BDCs; 33 Table of Contents • changes in our dividend policy and earnings or variations in operating results; • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; • decreases in our NAV per share; • general economic trends and other external factors; and • loss of a major funding source. Fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our common stock and, in the event that we seek to raise capital through future equity financings, our ability to raise such equity capital. Our common stock may be difficult to resell Investors may not be able to resell shares of common stock at or above their purchase prices due to a number of factors, including: • defaults under our primary unsecured debt arrangements; • actual or anticipated fluctuation in our operating results; • volatility in our common stock price; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; and • departures of key personnel. Provisions of our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Second Amended and Restated Bylaws could deter takeover attempts Our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended and Second Amended and Restated Bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging and delaying or making more difficult a change in control. The existence of these provisions may negatively impact the price of our common stock and may discourage third party bids. These provisions may reduce any premiums paid to our shareholders for shares of our common stock that they own. Furthermore, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 203 governs business combinations with interested shareholders, and also could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 