Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto before making a decision to purchase our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or not presently deemed material by us, may also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If that happens, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Structure Our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has concluded that substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern as a result of our breach of financial covenants in certain of our borrowing arrangements which could allow those lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt During 2008, the results of our operations were adversely affected by the unprecedented global financial crisis and economic downturn. We incurred a significant net loss and net unrealized depreciation on our portfolio investments and decline in our shareholders’ equity. As a result, we are currently in breach of certain financial covenants under our revolving credit facilities and unsecured debt borrowing arrangements, which had a total of $2.3 billion outstanding as of December 31, 2008. Since we are not in compliance with the covenants, we are unable to make further draws under our revolving credit facilities and the lenders or the note holders under these borrowing arrangements could accelerate the maturity date for our outstanding obligations after any applicable notice and/or cure periods. In such event, it is likely that we would not have the liquidity to repay the accelerated debt. 23 Table of Contents We are currently in discussions with the lenders and the holders of our private unsecured notes regarding the restructuring of our borrowing arrangements. We have engaged financial advisors to assist us with these negotiations. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in restructuring our borrowing arrangements on acceptable terms, if any, or amend such financial covenants in a manner sufficient to adequately reduce the risk of a default in the near future. In connection with any such amendments, our creditors are likely to condition their agreement on increases in the fees and interest rates payable under the borrowing arrangements and may condition their agreement on a conversion to secured facilities. In the event that we are unable to obtain additional funding or negotiate a successful debt restructuring, the creditors would have the right to demand immediate repayment of any outstanding obligations. Any such acceleration of the maturity of our obligations would likely cause other lenders and contractual counterparties, including counterparties to our interest rate swap agreements, to terminate and/or to accelerate the maturity of our obligations under other financing and credit instruments and agreements. Should the lenders and/or other counterparties demand immediate repayment of all of our obligations, we will likely be unable to pay such obligations. In such event, we may have to recapitalize, refinance, raise additional liquidity by selling some or all of our assets or seek to reorganize under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were prepared on a “going concern” basis; however, our registered independent public accounting firm concluded in its report dated March 2, 2009 regarding those financial statements, that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern as a result of the conditions noted above. We are currently in a period of credit and capital markets disruption and recession and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future There have been traumatic developments in the financial markets worldwide over the past eighteen months which have led to a recession in the U.S. and other countries. We have been adversely affected by these conditions, as has virtually every financial institution in the world. The global financial crisis has limited our access to the debt and equity capital markets and resulted in significant depreciation of our investment portfolio. The market disruption and liquidity crisis has also dramatically reduced the volume of mergers and acquisitions in the market place affecting our ability to continue to generate additional liquidity through sales of portfolio investments. In addition, the ongoing liquidity crisis has also increased our funding costs and caused severe pressure on our stock price. We believe that these conditions may continue for a prolonged period of time or worsen in the future. Thus, we expect to continue to face significant challenges and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and prospects. Our business has significant working capital requirements and may be adversely affected by a prolonged inability to access the capital markets or to sell assets Our business requires a substantial amount of working capital to operate. We historically have financed our operations through cash generated by our operating activities and through the sale of debt by special purpose affiliates to which we have contributed loan assets originated by us, unsecured borrowings by us and the sale of our equity. However, as explained above, this global financial crisis has significantly impacted our ability to access the credit and capital markets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to access the funds necessary for our liquidity requirements, especially in light of the recent downturn in the economy and continued dislocation in the financial markets. Our ability to continue to rely on such sources or other sources of capital is also affected by legal, structural and other factors. As a BDC, our leverage is limited under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act permits us to issue Senior Securities so long as our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, is at least 200% after each issuance of Senior Securities. We may, in addition, borrow amounts up to 5% of our total assets for temporary purpose as permitted by the 1940 Act. While we or our consolidated affiliates have issued, and intend to continue to issue when market conditions permit, debt securities and other evidences of indebtedness, up to the maximum amount allowed under the 1940 Act, a failure to continue short-term financings, to maintain our capacity under our existing unsecured 24 Table of Contents revolving credit facility, to sell additional term debt notes or to add new or replacement debt facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we may be unable to renew the capacity under our existing facilities or obtain access to additional debt facilities on acceptable terms, especially during the current economic downturn and dislocation in the credit markets. During such times, potential lenders and purchasers of our debt securities may be more restrictive in how they deploy their liquidity and capital. See the description of the term debt notes and the debt facilities under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources.” The following table is designed to illustrate the effect on returns to a holder of our common stock of the leverage created by our use of borrowing, at the weighted average interest rate of 4.9% for the year ended December 31, 2008, and assuming hypothetical annual returns on our portfolio of minus 15% to plus 15%. As can be seen, leverage generally increases the return to shareholders when the portfolio return is positive and decreases return when the portfolio return is negative. Actual returns may be greater or less than those appearing in the table. Assumed Return on Portfolio (Net of Expenses)(1) -15.0 % -10.0 % -5.0 % — 5.0 % 10.0 % 15.0 % Corresponding Return to Common Shareholders(2) -30.7 % -21.6 % -12.5 % -3.4 % 5.7 % 14.8 % 23.9 % (1) The assumed portfolio return is required by regulation of the SEC and is not a prediction of, and does not represent, our projected or actual performance. (2) In order to compute the “Corresponding Return to Common Shareholders,” the “Assumed Return on Portfolio” is multiplied by the total value of our assets at the beginning of the period to obtain an assumed return to us. From this amount, all interest expense accrued during the period is subtracted to determine the return available to shareholders. The return available to shareholders is then divided by the total value of our net assets as of the beginning of the period to determine the “Corresponding Return to Common Shareholders.” Because we are subject to regulatory restrictions on the amount of debt we can issue, we are dependent on the issuance of equity as a financing source. We are generally restricted to issuing equity at prices equal to or above our NAV per share at the time of issuance, subject to certain exceptions. One of these exceptions allows the sale of our common stock at a price below NAV per share if the sale is approved by holders of a majority of our outstanding voting securities and by holders of a majority of our outstanding voting securities who are not affiliated persons of us. Our Board of Directors must make certain determinations prior to any such sale. At a special meeting of stockholders in February 2009, we received the requisite approval of our stockholders to sell (i) the number of shares of our common stock necessary to complete the acquisition of the ordinary shares of our portfolio company European Capital that we did not already own, and (ii) a maximum of an additional 42,812,640 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment for shares issued following the occurrence of events such as stock splits, stock dividends, distributions and recapitalizations, at prices below NAV per share. The authorization expires in February 2010. However, even with such approval, there can be no assurances that we can issue equity when necessary. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of our common stock or debt securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock, the percentage ownership of our existing shareholders who do not purchase such securities would decrease and they may experience additional dilution. In addition, any convertible or exchangeable securities may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. The recent economic recession has adversely affected our business and a continuation of current conditions could cause further harm to our operating results As noted above, we incurred a significant net loss and net unrealized depreciation on our portfolio investments during 2008. In addition, many of our portfolio companies are susceptible to the current economic 25 Table of Contents recession and may be unable to repay our debt investments, may be unable to be sold at a price that we could recover our investment, or even continue to operate during such periods. As a result, our non-performing assets have increased and may continue to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during the current recession. In addition, adverse economic conditions may also decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Our ability to obtain capital to invest in such companies has also been impaired by the economic downturn. These results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Risk Factors—Our business is dependent on external financing.” We make loans to and investments in middle market borrowers who may default on their loans or provide no return on our investments We invest in and lend to privately-held, middle market businesses. There is generally no publicly available information about these businesses. Therefore, we rely on our principals, associates, analysts and consultants to investigate these businesses. The portfolio companies in which we invest may have significant variations in operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, to finance expansion or to maintain their competitive position, may otherwise have a weak financial position or may be adversely affected by changes in the business cycle. Our portfolio companies may not meet net income, cash flow and other coverage tests typically imposed by senior lenders. Numerous factors may affect a portfolio company’s ability to repay its loan, including the failure to meet its business plan, a downturn in its industry or negative economic conditions, such as the current recession. Deterioration in a portfolio company’s financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in the collateral for the loan. We also make unsecured, subordinated loans and invest in equity securities, which involve a higher degree of risk than senior loans. In certain cases, our involvement in the management of our portfolio companies may subject us to additional defenses and claims from borrowers and third parties. These conditions may make it difficult for us to obtain repayment of our loans. Middle market businesses typically have narrower product lines and smaller market shares than large businesses. They tend to be more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. In addition, these companies may face intense competition, including competition from companies with greater financial resources, more extensive development, manufacturing, marketing, and other capabilities, and a larger number of qualified managerial and technical personnel. These businesses may also experience substantial variations in operating results. Typically, the success of a middle market business also depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons. The death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on us. In addition, middle market businesses often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and will have borrowed money from other lenders. Our senior loans generally are secured by the assets of our borrowers. Our subordinated loans may or may not be secured by the assets of the borrower; however if a subordinated loan is secured, our rights to payment and our security interest are usually subordinated to the payment rights and security interests of the senior lender. Therefore, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights to collect our subordinated loans and to recover any of the loan balance through a foreclosure of collateral. There is uncertainty regarding the value of our portfolio investments A significant portion of our portfolio investments are not publicly traded. We value these investments based on a determination of their fair value made in good faith by our Board of Directors as required by law. Due to the uncertainty inherent in valuing investments that are not publicly traded, as set forth in our consolidated financial statements, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would exist if a ready market for these investments existed. Our determinations of the fair value of our investments have a material 26 Table of Contents impact on our net earnings through the recording of unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments as well as our assessment of interest income recognition. Our net asset value could be materially affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments are materially different from the values that would exist if a ready market existed for these securities. Our anticipated amounts to be received upon settlement or maturity of our investments, or our Realizable Value, may differ from the amounts we ultimately receive We determine the fair value of our investments in accordance with SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, (“SFAS No. 157”). We invest primarily in Level 3 assets, generally with the intention to hold the assets to settlement or maturity. The current lack of liquidity in the financial markets has caused investment spreads between the cost of funds and investment income to widen dramatically on our investments, which in most cases results in current fair values for many Level 3 assets that we believe are materially lower than the values we anticipate realizing on settlement or maturity, which we refer to as our Realizable Value. However, due to the uncertainty inherent in estimating our Realizable Value of our investments, our determinations of Realizable Value may differ materially from the values we ultimately will realize on settlement or maturity. We have a limited investment history in certain segments of our business Since our IPO, we have primarily been an investor in domestic, privately-held middle market companies, which we consider to be companies with sales between $10 million and $750 million. However, we have also invested over the past several years either directly or through new alternative asset funds in other investment categories, including European-based companies, CMBS, CLOs, CDOs, RMBS, single-family residential pass-through securities, early stage technology companies, special situation companies and distressed securities. We have limited or no operating history in making or monitoring such investments. We also invested in the third-party alternative asset fund management business in the last several years through our investment in American Capital, LLC. There can be no assurances that these investments or our asset management business will be profitable in future periods, nor can we offer investors any assurances that we will successfully implement these new strategies. We may fail to continue to qualify for our pass-through tax treatment We have operated since October 1, 1997, so as to qualify to be taxed as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code and, provided we meet certain requirements under the Code, we can generally avoid corporate level federal income taxes on income distributed to our shareholders as dividends. We would cease to qualify for this favorable pass-through tax treatment if we are unable to comply with the source of income, diversification or distribution requirements contained in Subchapter M of the Code, or if we cease to operate so as to qualify as a BDC under the 1940 Act. If we fail to qualify to be taxed as a RIC or to distribute our income to shareholders on a current basis, we would be subject to corporate level taxes which would significantly reduce the amount of income available for distribution to shareholders. The loss of our current tax treatment could have a material adverse effect on the total return, if any, obtainable from an investment in our common stock. See “Business—Business Development Company Requirements” and “Business—Regulated Investment Company Requirements.” We have limited public information regarding the companies in which we invest Consistent with our operation as a BDC, our portfolio consists primarily of securities issued by privately-held companies. As noted above, there is generally little or no publicly available information about such companies, and we must rely on the diligence of our employees and the consultants we hire to obtain the information necessary for our decision to invest in them. There can be no assurance that our diligence efforts will uncover all material information about the privately-held business necessary to make a fully informed investment decision. 27 Table of Contents A change in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability Because we fund a portion of our investments with borrowings, our net increase in assets from operations is affected by the spread between the rate at which we invest and the rate at which we borrow. We attempt to match-fund our liabilities and assets by financing floating rate assets with floating rate liabilities and fixed rate assets with fixed rate liabilities or equity. We enter into interest rate basis swap agreements to match the interest rate basis of our assets and liabilities, thereby locking in the spread between our asset yield and the cost of our borrowings, and to fulfill our obligations under the terms of our secured revolving debt funding facility and asset securitizations. However, our derivatives are considered economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (“SFAS No. 133”). Under our interest rate swap agreements, we generally pay a fixed rate and receive a floating interest rate based on LIBOR. We may enter into interest rate swaption agreements where, if exercised, we would receive a fixed rate and pay a floating rate based on LIBOR. We may also enter into interest rate cap agreements that would entitle us to receive an amount, if any, by which our interest payments on our variable rate debt exceed specified interest rates. An increase in interest rates could reduce the spread between the rate at which we invest and the rate at which we borrow, and thus, adversely affect our profitability, if we have not appropriately match-funded our liabilities and assets or hedged against such event. Alternatively, our interest rate hedging activities may limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Also, the fair value of certain of our debt investments is based in part on the current market yields or interest rates of similar securities. A change in interest rates could have a significant impact on our determination of the fair value of these debt investments. In addition, a change in interest rates could also have an impact on the fair value of our interest rate swap agreements that could result in the recording of unrealized appreciation or depreciation in future periods. For example, a decline, or a flattening, of the forward interest rate yield curve will typically result in the recording of unrealized depreciation of our interest rate swap agreements. Therefore, adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Management’s Discussion And Analysis Of Financial Condition And Results Of Operations—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information on interest rate swap agreements. A change in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our profitability We may invest in debt securities that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, we may invest in the equity of portfolio companies whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. Our domestic portfolio companies may also transact a significant amount of business in foreign countries and therefore their profitability may be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The functional currency of our largest portfolio company, European Capital, is the Euro. European Capital also has investments in other European currencies, including the British Pound. As a result, an adverse change in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors including, among others, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, the ability to fund and close suitable investments, the timing of the recognition of fee income from closing investment transactions and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 28 Table of Contents We are dependent upon our key management personnel for our future success We are dependent on the diligence and skill of our senior management and other members of management for the final selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of our investments. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of our senior management team. During an economic downturn, it may be difficult to retain such individuals. The departure of certain executive officers or key employees could materially adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our officers or employees. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities We compete with hundreds of private equity and mezzanine funds and other financing sources, including traditional financial services companies such as finance companies, commercial banks, investment banks and other equity and non-equity based investment funds. Some of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial resources than us. Competitors may have lower cost of funds and many have access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, certain of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships and build their market shares. There is no assurance that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that satisfy our investment objectives or that we will be able to meet our investment goals. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations or our failure to comply with those laws or regulations may adversely affect our business We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws at the local, state, federal and foreign level. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Accordingly, any change in these laws or regulations or the failure to comply with these laws or regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business. Certain of these laws and regulations pertain specifically to RICs or BDCs. We could face losses and potential liability if intrusions, viruses or similar disruptions to our technology jeopardize our confidential information or that of users of our technology Although we have implemented, and will continue to implement, security measures, our technology platform is and will continue to be vulnerable to intrusion, computer viruses or similar disruptive problems caused by transmission from unauthorized users. The misappropriation of proprietary information could expose us to a risk of loss or litigation. Risks Related to Liquidity and Capital Resources We are currently in default under the primary debt arrangements that we use to finance our operations. If we are unable to obtain a waiver, our lenders could accelerate the maturity of those borrowings As discussed above, we were in default of the minimum consolidated tangible net worth covenant in our revolving credit facilities, the minimum consolidated tangible net worth and 200% asset coverage ratio covenants in our unsecured privately held notes and the 200% asset coverage ratio covenant in our public bonds as of December 31, 2008. A default under these borrowing arrangements could result, among other things, in termination of further funds availability under our revolving credit facilities and an accelerated maturity date for all amounts outstanding under these arrangements after any applicable cure and/or notice periods. We expect to generate cash flow from operations sufficient to service the debt under these borrowing arrangements prior to the stated maturity of the debt if there is not an acceleration of the maturity date. However, we will likely not be able to pay such obligations if our lenders require immediate repayment of all of our debt. We are working with our 29 Table of Contents lenders on a waiver and amendment of these borrowing arrangements to reduce the risk of further defaults in the near term. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in restructuring or refinancing our debt on acceptable terms. If we are unable to renegotiate acceptable terms, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our borrowing arrangements impose certain limitations on us As of December 31, 2008, we had a secured revolving credit facility and an unsecured revolving line of credit (the “Revolving Facility”). We delivered a termination notice on February 27, 2009 to the lenders of the secured revolving credit facility. We also have issued senior unsecured notes in both public and private offerings and consolidated trusts affiliated with us have issued term debt securities (“Term Debt Notes”) to institutional investors. Each of these facilities and borrowing arrangements are described below. Our Revolving Facility is currently a $1.4 billion unsecured revolving line of credit administered by an affiliate of Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC (which will decrease to $1.25 billion on December 31, 2009). The Revolving Facility contains customary default provisions as well as the following default provisions: a cross-default on our debt of $25 million or more, a default if we fail to meet a consolidated minimum net worth requirement of $4.5 billion plus forty percent (40%) of any capital stock issued or debt converted after October 1, 2008, a default triggered by a change of control and a default triggered if we fail to maintain an unsecured debt rating equal to or greater than BB by any one rating agency. Our ability to make draws under the Revolving Facility expires in March 2011, unless the term of the facility is extended. We have $550 million of senior unsecured notes that were issued in a public offering. At the time of the issuance, the notes were rated Baa2, BBB and BBB by Moody’s Investor Services, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Fitch Ratings, respectively. If the ratings of the notes from at least two of the rating agencies are decreased to a BB+ or Ba1 rating or lower, the interest rate on the notes would increase up to maximum of 200 basis points. The indenture contains various covenants, including a covenant that requires us to maintain an asset coverage ratio, as defined in the 1940 Act, of at least 200%. We have issued senior unsecured notes to accredited investors in private placement offerings under several note purchase agreements. As of December 31, 2008, we had $392 million outstanding under these privately-placed unsecured senior notes. The note purchase agreements contain various covenants, including covenants that require us to maintain an asset coverage ratio, as defined in the 1940 Act, of at least 200%, a consolidated minimum tangible net worth and a minimum interest coverage ratio. Each note purchase agreement also contains a cross-default provision on our consolidated debt of $15 million or more and a default triggered by a change of control. Trusts affiliated with us have issued Term Debt Notes to institutional investors with an outstanding balance of $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2008. These affiliated trusts are consolidated in our financial statements. These securities contain customary default provisions, as well as the following default provisions: a failure on our part, as the originator of the loans securing the Term Debt Notes or as the servicer of these loans, to make any payment or deposit required under related agreements within two business days after the date the payment or deposit is required to be made, or if we alter or amend our credit and collection policy in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on the holders of the Term Debt Notes. Investment in non-investment grade structured products may be illiquid, may have a higher risk of default, and may not produce current returns The CMBS, CLO and CDO securities in which we invest are generally non-investment grade, which means that major rating agencies rate them below the top four investment-grade rating categories (i.e., “AAA” through “BBB”), and are sometimes referred to as “junk bonds.” Non-investment grade CMBS, CLO and CDO bonds and preferred shares tend to be less liquid, may have a higher risk of default and may be more difficult to value. 30 Table of Contents Non-investment grade securities are expected to provide a higher yield than do investment grade securities, but with the higher return comes greater risk of default. In addition, the fair value of these securities may change as interest rates change over time. Economic recessions or downturns may cause defaults or losses on collateral securities to increase. Non-investment grade securities are considered speculative, and their capacity to pay principal and interest in accordance with the terms of their issue is not certain. The lack of liquidity of our privately-held securities may adversely affect our business Most of our investments consist of securities acquired directly from their issuers in private transactions. Some of these securities are subject to restrictions on resale or otherwise are less liquid than public securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to obtain cash equal to the value at which we record our investments if the need arises. Our assets include investments in Structured Products which are subordinate in right of payment to more senior securities Our assets include subordinated CMBS, CLO and CDO securities which are the most subordinate class of securities in a structure of securities secured by a poll of loans and accordingly are the first to bear the loss upon a restructuring or liquidation of the underlying collateral and the last to receive payment of interest and principal. We may not recover the full amount or, in extreme cases, any of our initial investment in such subordinated interests. Additionally, estimated fair values of these subordinated interests tend to be more sensitive to changes in economic conditions than more senior securities. As a result, such subordinated interests generally are not actively traded and may not provide holders thereof with liquid investments. Our portfolio companies may be highly leveraged Leverage may have important adverse consequences to our portfolio companies and to us as an investor. These companies may be subject to restrictive financial and operating covenants. The leverage may impair these companies’ ability to finance their future operations and capital needs. As a result, their flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to business opportunities may be limited. A leveraged company’s income and net assets will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if borrowed money were not used. Risks Related to Our Investing and Financing Strategy We may incur additional debt that could increase your investment risks We or our consolidated affiliates borrow money or issue debt securities to provide us with additional funds to invest. Our lenders have fixed dollar claims on our assets or the assets of our consolidated affiliates that are senior to the claims of our shareholders and, thus, our lenders have preference over our shareholders with respect to these assets. In particular, the assets that our consolidated affiliates have pledged to lenders under the Term Debt Notes were sold or contributed to separate affiliated statutory trusts prior to such pledge. While we own a beneficial interest in these trusts, these assets are property of the respective trusts, available to satisfy the debts of the trusts, and would only become available for distribution to our shareholders to the extent specifically permitted under the agreements governing those Term Debt Notes. See “Risk Factors—Our debt facilities impose certain limitations on us.” Additionally, in order to successfully amend the terms of or refinance the borrowing arrangements under which we are in default, we may have to grant a security interest in some or all of our other assets to those lenders. Although borrowing money for investment increases the potential for gain, it also increases the risk of a loss. A decrease in the value of our investments will have a sharper impact on our net asset value if we borrow money to make investments. Our ability to pay dividends could also be adversely impacted. In addition, our 31 Table of Contents ability to pay dividends or incur additional indebtedness would be restricted if asset coverage is not equal to at least twice our indebtedness. If the value of our assets declines, we might be unable to satisfy that test. If this happens, we may be required to sell some of our investments and repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when a sale may be disadvantageous. See “Risk Factors—Our business is dependent on external financing.” Our credit ratings may not reflect all risks of an investment in our debt securities Our credit ratings are an assessment by major debt rating agencies of our ability to pay our obligations. Consequently, actual or expected changes in our credit ratings will likely affect the market value of our publicly issued debt securities. Our credit ratings, however, may not fully or accurately reflect all of the credit and market risks associated with our publicly issued debt securities. A downgrade in the credit ratings applicable to our debt securities could negatively impact us. If these credit ratings were to be downgraded, our interest expense (and our ability to raise additional debt) could be negatively impacted, and we may or could be required to redeem certain of our Senior Securities. Any of these occurrences could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Terms relating to redemption may materially adversely affect the return on our debt securities If any of the debt securities issued by us are redeemable at our option, we may choose to redeem debt securities at times when prevailing interest rates are lower than the interest rate paid on our debt securities. In addition, if our debt securities are subject to mandatory redemption, we may be required to redeem the debt securities also at times when prevailing interest rates are lower than the interest rate paid on these debt securities. In these circumstances, an investor may not be able to reinvest the redemption proceeds in a comparable security at an effective interest rate as high as the debt securities being redeemed. We may not realize gains from our equity investments When we sponsor the buyout of a portfolio company, we invest in the equity securities of the portfolio company. Also, when we make a loan, we may receive warrants to acquire stock issued by the borrower or purchase a minority equity interest. We may also make direct equity investments. Our goal ultimately is to dispose of these equity interests and realize gains. These equity interests may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may depreciate in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests. Failure to deploy capital effectively or obtain financing to make additional investments may reduce our return on equity If we fail to invest new capital effectively, or obtain additional funds to grow, our return on equity may be negatively impacted, which could reduce the price of the securities that you own. The trading market or market value of our publicly issued debt securities may fluctuate Our publicly issued debt securities do not have an established trading market. There is no assurance that a trading market for our publicly issued debt securities will ever develop or be maintained if developed. Additionally, many factors may materially adversely affect the trading market for, and market value of, our publicly issued debt securities including, but not limited to, the following: • our creditworthiness; • the time remaining to the maturity of these debt securities; • the outstanding principal amount of debt securities with terms identical to these debt securities; • the supply of debt securities trading in the secondary market, if any; 32 Table of Contents • the redemption or repayment features, if any, of these debt securities; • the level, direction and volatility of market interest rates generally; and • market rates of interest that are higher or lower than rates borne by the debt securities. There may also be a limited number of buyers when an investor decides to sell its debt securities. This too may materially adversely affect the market value of the debt securities or the trading market for the debt securities. Risks Related to Our Common Stock There is a risk that you may not receive dividends Since our IPO, we have distributed and currently intend to distribute more than 90% of our investment company ordinary taxable income to our shareholders in order to continue to qualify as a RIC and have distributed and currently intend to distribute sufficient dividends to eliminate our investment company taxable income and capital gains. Historically, we have declared a dividend for each quarter since our IPO in 1997. However, in the fourth quarter of 2008, we revised our dividend policy to manage our capital base proactively in the current volatile markets. Our Board of Directors will evaluate the declaration of our quarterly dividend after our financial results are determined each quarter, so that we may more precisely assess our taxable income, cash flow and changes in fair value to better manage our tangible net worth in the current volatile markets. We did not declare a dividend in the fourth quarter of 2008. We are required to declare as a dividend by June 15, 2009 and pay by September 30, 2009 $220 million of our investment company ordinary taxable income for our tax year ended September 30, 2008 in order to maintain our qualification as a RIC and $296 million to eliminate our taxable income. Due to the global financial and liquidity crisis, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient liquidity to pay these amounts by the required dates to maintain our qualification as a RIC and to eliminate all of our investment company ordinary taxable income. Pursuant to applicable tax regulations, we are also required to include in taxable income certain amounts that have not yet been collected in cash such as payment-in-kind interest or original issue discount accretion. Since we may be required to recognize taxable income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the requirement to distribute at least 90% of our investment company ordinary taxable income to continue to qualify as a RIC. As a RIC, we could elect to retain our net long-term capital gains and pay a federal income tax on such gains on behalf of our shareholders treating them as a deemed distribution for tax purposes. In two of our last three tax years, we have elected to retain our long-term capital gains and pay the federal income tax on behalf of our shareholders instead of distributing the net long-term capital gains as a cash dividend to our shareholders. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will allow any specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. There is a risk that you may receive our stock as dividends On January 7, 2009, the Internal Revenue Service issued a revenue procedure that temporarily allows a RIC to distribute its own stock as a dividend for the purpose of fulfilling its distribution requirements. Pursuant to this revenue procedure, a RIC may treat a distribution of its own stock as a dividend if (i) the stock is publicly traded on an established securities market, (ii) the distribution is declared with respect to a taxable year ending on or before December 31, 2009 and (iii) each shareholder may elect to receive his or her entire distribution in either cash or stock of the RIC subject to a limitation on the aggregate amount of cash to be distributed to all shareholders, which must be at least 10% of the aggregate declared distribution. If too many shareholders elect to receive cash, each shareholder electing to receive cash will receive a pro rata amount of cash (with the balance of the distribution paid in stock). In no event will any shareholder electing to receive cash receive less than 10% of his or her entire distribution in cash. 33 Table of Contents If we distribute our common stock as a dividend of our taxable income, a shareholder could receive up to 90% of the amount of the dividend declared in shares of our common stock with the remaining amount in cash. The total dividend declared would be taxable income to a shareholder although he or she may only receive 10% of the dividend in cash to pay any taxes due on the dividend. If we cannot meet NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements, NASDAQ may delist our common stock, which would have an adverse impact on the liquidity and market price of our common stock. Our common stock is currently listed on NASDAQ. Under NASDAQ rules, a stock can be delisted and not allowed to trade on NASDAQ if the closing bid price of the stock over a 30 consecutive trading-day period is less than $1.00. Since the beginning of the financial markets crisis, we have and continue to experience significant volatility, including substantial decreases, in the price of our common stock. On February 27, 2009, the closing price of our common stock was a $1.35 per share. NASDAQ implemented a temporary suspension of the rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price on October 16, 2008, and later extended the suspension until April 20, 2009. If the suspension is not extended further, there is a risk in light of the continued depressed state of the economy and credit and capital markets that our common stock could further decline in share price below the minimum listing requirement, and thus be delisted from NASDAQ if the suspension is not further extended. A delisting of our common stock could negatively impact us by reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock and the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly The market price and marketability of shares of our securities may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors, including many over which we have no control and that may not be directly related to us. These factors include the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the stock market from time to time, which are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of RICs, BDCs or other companies in our sector, which is not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; • changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs or BDCs; • changes in our dividend policy and earnings or variations in operating results; • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; • decreases in our net asset value per share; • general economic trends and other external factors; and • loss of a major funding source. Fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our common stock and, in the event that we seek to raise capital through future equity financings, our ability to raise such equity capital. Future financings may be on terms adverse to shareholder interests In the past we have issued, and in the future we may issue, equity to raise additional capital to fund our operations and to make investments. As noted above, our shareholders approved a proposal at a special meeting in February 2009 allowing us to sell shares of common stock below NAV per share subject to certain limitations. If we issue additional shares below our NAV per share, our existing shareholders may be further diluted. 34 Table of Contents Our common stock may be difficult to resell Investors may not be able to resell shares of common stock at or above their purchase prices due to a number of factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuation in our operating results; • volatility in our common stock price; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; and • departures of key personnel. Provisions of our Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Second Amended and Restated Bylaws could deter takeover attempts Our Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended and Second Amended and Restated Bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging and delaying or making more difficult a change in control. The existence of these provisions may negatively impact the price of our common stock and may discourage third party bids. These provisions may reduce any premiums paid to our shareholders for shares of our common stock that they own. Furthermore, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 203 governs business combinations with interested shareholders, and also could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 