Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto before making a decision to purchase our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or not presently deemed material by us, may also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If that happens, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Structure Our business has significant capital requirements and may be adversely affected by a prolonged inability to access the capital markets or to sell assets Our business requires a substantial amount of capital to operate. We historically have financed our operations, including the funding of new investments, through cash generated by our operating activities, the repayment of debt investments, the sale of investments, the sale of debt by special purpose affiliates to which we have contributed loan assets originated by us, the sale of our stock and through secured and unsecured borrowings. Our ability to continue to rely on such sources or other sources of capital is affected by restrictions 19 in both the 1940 Act and in certain of our debt agreements relating to the incurrence of additional indebtedness as well as changes in the capital markets from the recent economic recession. It is also affected by legal, structural and other factors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to earn or access the funds necessary for our liquidity requirements. Future adverse market and economic conditions could cause harm to our operating results Past recessions have had a significant negative impact on the operating performance and fair value of our portfolio investments. Many of our portfolio companies could be adversely impacted by an economic downturn or a future recession and may be unable to repay our debt investments, may be unable to be sold at a price that would allow us to recover our investment, or may be unable to operate during such recession. Such portfolio company performance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have loans to and investments in middle market borrowers who may default on their loans or provide no return on our investments We have invested in and made loans to privately-held, middle market businesses and plan to continue to do so. There is generally a limited amount of publicly available information about these businesses. Therefore, we rely on our principals, associates, analysts, other employees and consultants to investigate and monitor these businesses. The portfolio companies in which we have invested may have significant variations in operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, to finance expansion or to maintain their competitive position, may otherwise have a weak financial position or may be adversely affected by changes in the business cycle. Our portfolio companies may not meet net income, cash flow and other coverage tests typically imposed by senior lenders. Numerous factors may affect a portfolio company’s ability to repay its loans, including the failure to meet its business plan, a downturn in its industry or negative economic conditions. Deterioration in a portfolio company’s financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in the collateral for the loan. We have also made unsecured and mezzanine loans and invested in equity securities, which involve a higher degree of risk than senior secured loans. In certain cases, our involvement in the management of our portfolio companies may subject us to additional defenses and claims from borrowers and third parties. These conditions may make it difficult for us to obtain repayment of our investments. Middle market businesses typically have narrower product lines and smaller market shares than large businesses. They tend to be more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. In addition, these companies may face intense competition, including competition from companies with greater financial resources, more extensive development, manufacturing, marketing, and other capabilities, and a larger number of qualified managerial and technical personnel. These businesses may also experience substantial variations in operating results. Typically, the success of a middle market business also depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons. The death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on us. In addition, middle market businesses often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may have borrowed money from other lenders with claims that are senior to our claims. Our senior loans generally are secured by the assets of our borrowers, however certain of our senior loans may have a second priority lien and thus, our security interest may be subordinated to the payment rights and security interest of the first lien senior lender. Additionally, our mezzanine loans may or may not be secured by the assets of the borrower; however, if a mezzanine loan is secured, our rights to payment and our security interest are usually subordinated to the payment rights and security interests of the first lien and second lien senior lenders. Therefore, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights to collect our second lien senior loans or mezzanine loans and to recover any of the loan balance through a foreclosure of collateral. 20 There is uncertainty regarding the value of our portfolio investments A substantial portion of our portfolio investments are not publicly traded. As required by law, we fair value these investments in accordance with the 1940 Act and Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”) based on a determination made in good faith by our Board of Directors. Due to the uncertainty inherent in valuing investments that are not publicly traded, as set forth in our consolidated financial statements, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would exist if a ready market for these investments existed. Our determinations of the fair value of our investments have a material impact on our net earnings through the recording of unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments as well as our assessment of income recognition. Thus, our NAV could be materially affected in the event of any changes in applicable law or accounting pronouncements governing how we currently fair value assets, or if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments are materially different from the values that would exist if a ready market existed for these securities. We may fail to continue to qualify for our pass-through tax treatment We operate so as to qualify to be taxed as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code and, provided we meet certain requirements under the Code, we can generally avoid corporate level federal income taxes on income distributed to our shareholders as dividends. We would cease to qualify for this favorable pass-through tax treatment if we are unable to comply with the source of income, asset diversification or distribution requirements contained in Subchapter M of the Code, or if we cease to operate so as to qualify as a BDC under the 1940 Act. There is a risk that we will use some or all of the proceeds from the sale or repayment of existing qualifying investments to delever our balance sheet instead of reinvesting in new qualifying investment opportunities, and if so, a smaller investment portfolio may make it difficult for us to continue to meet the source of income or asset diversification requirements in order to maintain our qualification as a RIC. If we fail to qualify to be taxed as a RIC in years where we have taxable income and distribute our income to shareholders on a current basis, we would be subject to corporate level taxes, if any, which would significantly reduce the amount of income, if any, available for distribution to our shareholders. The loss of our RIC qualification could have a material adverse effect on the total return, if any, obtainable from an investment in our common stock. A change in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability Because we have funded a portion of our investments with borrowings, our earnings are affected by the spread between the interest rate on our investments and the interest rate at which we borrowed funds. We have attempted to match-fund our liabilities and assets by financing floating rate assets with floating rate liabilities and fixed rate assets with fixed rate liabilities or equity. We have entered into interest rate basis swap agreements to match the interest rate basis of our assets and liabilities, thereby locking in the spread between our asset yield and the cost of our borrowings, and to fulfill our obligations under the terms of our asset securitizations. However, our derivatives are considered economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting under ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging (“ASC 815”). Therefore, payments under the hedges are recorded in net realized (loss) gain on investments in our consolidated statements of operations and not in interest income or expense. Under our interest rate swap agreements, we generally pay a fixed rate and receive a floating interest rate based on LIBOR. We may enter into interest rate swaption agreements where, if exercised, we would receive a fixed rate and pay a floating rate based on LIBOR. We may also enter into interest rate cap agreements that would entitle us to receive an amount, if any, by which our interest payments on our variable rate debt exceed specified interest rates. An increase or decrease in interest rates could reduce the spread between the rate at which we invest and the rate at which we borrow, and thus, adversely affect our profitability, if we have not appropriately match-funded 21 our liabilities and assets or hedged against such event. Alternatively, our interest rate hedging activities may limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Also, the fair value of certain of our debt investments is based in part on the current market yields or interest rates of similar securities. A change in interest rates could have a significant impact on our determination of the fair value of these debt investments. In addition, a change in interest rates could also have an impact on the fair value of our interest rate swap agreements that could result in the recording of unrealized appreciation or depreciation in future periods. For example, a decline, or a flattening, of the forward interest rate yield curve will typically result in the recording of unrealized depreciation of our interest rate swap agreements. Therefore, adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information on interest rate swap agreements. A change in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our profitability We have or may make investments in debt instruments that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, we have or may make investments in the equity of portfolio companies whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. Our domestic portfolio companies may also transact a significant amount of business in foreign countries and therefore their profitability may be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The functional currency of our largest portfolio company, European Capital, is the Euro. European Capital also has investments in other European currencies, including the British Pound. As a result, an adverse change in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results We have and could experience further fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors including, among others, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, the ability to sell investments at attractive terms, the ability to fund and close suitable investments, the timing of the recognition of fee income from closing investment transactions and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We are dependent upon our key management personnel for our future success We are dependent on the diligence and skill of our senior management and other members of management for raising capital and the selection, structuring, monitoring, restructuring/amendment, sale and exiting of our investments. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our senior management and other members of management. Our failure to raise additional capital that would enhance the growth of our business, or our failure to provide appropriate opportunities for or compensate competitively senior management and other members of management may make it difficult to retain such individuals. The departure of certain executive officers or key employees could materially adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our officers or employees. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities We compete with strategic buyers and hundreds of private equity and mezzanine debt funds and other financing sources, including traditional financial services companies such as finance companies, commercial banks, investment banks and other equity and non-equity based investment funds. Some of our competitors are 22 substantially larger and have considerably greater financial resources than us. Competitors may have lower cost of funds and many have access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, certain of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to offer better pricing and terms to prospective portfolio companies, consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships and build their market shares. There is no assurance that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that satisfy our investment objectives or that we will be able to meet our investment goals. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations or our failure to comply with those laws or regulations may adversely affect our business We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws at the local, state, federal and foreign level, including with respect to securities laws, tax and accounting standards. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Accordingly, any change in these laws or regulations or the failure to comply with these laws or regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business. Certain of these laws and regulations pertain specifically to RICs or BDCs. We could face losses and potential liability if intrusions, viruses or similar disruptions to our technology jeopardize our confidential information or that of users of our technology Although we have implemented, and will continue to implement, security measures, our technology platform is and will continue to be vulnerable to intrusion, computer viruses or similar disruptive problems caused by transmission from unauthorized users. In addition, any misappropriation of proprietary information could expose us to a risk of loss or litigation. Risks Related to Liquidity and Capital Resources Our secured borrowing arrangements impose significant limitations on us Certain tranches of our secured notes are call-protected and except under certain circumstances, may only be redeemed by us prior to August 1, 2012 if we pay a fee. Our other secured loans and notes have scheduled amortization and are subject to mandatory redemptions with all or part of the proceeds from new debt, equity issuances, realized proceeds from portfolio exits and excess cash flow. Our secured notes and loans have covenants that in certain circumstances limit our ability to enter into new debt financing, pay cash dividends, dispose of assets or fund new investments. Additionally, debt under our asset securitizations currently require that all principal and interest received on the loans securing such debt be used to repay such secured debt. In addition, certain of our secured debt arrangements include financial covenants which require us to maintain a minimum ratio of operating cash flow to interest expense and a minimum ratio of pledged assets value to secured debt. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with each of these covenants and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The 1940 Act limits our ability to issue Senior Securities in Certain Circumstances. As a BDC, the 1940 Act generally limits our ability to issue Senior Securities if our asset coverage ratio does not exceed 200% immediately after each issuance of Senior Securities or is improved immediately upon the issuance. Asset coverage ratio is defined in the 1940 Act as the ratio that the value of the total assets, less all liabilities and indebtedness not represented by Senior Securities, bears to the aggregate amount of Senior Securities representing indebtedness. We have operated at times in the past with our asset coverage ratio below 200% and there are no assurances that we will always operate above this ratio. The resulting restrictions on issuing Senior Securities could have a material adverse impact on our business operations. 23 The 1940 Act limits our ability to issue equity below our NAV per share As a BDC, the 1940 Act generally limits our ability to issue and sell our common stock at a price below our NAV per share, exclusive of any distributing commission or discount, without shareholder approval. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, shares of our common stock have traded below our NAV per share. If our common stock continues to trade at a price below our NAV per share, there are no assurances that we can issue or sell shares of our common stock if needed to fund our business. In addition, even if we were to issue or sell shares of our common stock at a price below our NAV per share, it could result in dilution in our NAV per share, which could result in a decline of our stock price. Our interest rate swap agreements contain covenants that place limitations on us We enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage interest rate risk and also to fulfill our obligations under the terms of our asset securitizations. Certain of our interest rate swap agreements contain an event of default that allows the counterparty to terminate transactions outstanding under the agreement following the occurrence of a cross default on certain of our other indebtedness. Certain of our interest rate swap agreements also contain an event of default that allows a counterparty to terminate transactions outstanding under the agreement if certain of our other indebtedness, as applicable, is accelerated. If we violate the covenants in the interest rate swap agreements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The lack of liquidity of our privately-held securities may adversely affect our business Most of our investments consist of securities acquired directly from their issuers in private transactions. Some of these securities are subject to restrictions on resale or otherwise are less liquid than public securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to obtain cash equal to the value at which we record our investments upon exiting the investment. We and certain of our executive officers are defendants in a purported class action lawsuit We and certain of our executive officers were named as defendants in a purported class action lawsuit, filed on behalf of the purchasers of our common stock between October 31, 2007 and November 7, 2008. The complaint alleges certain securities law violations relating to the revision of our dividend guidance for 2008. The complaint seeks unspecified damages, costs and expenses. While we cannot predict the outcome with any certainty, we do not expect that it will materially affect our financial condition or results of operations. However, there can be no assurance whether this pending legal proceeding will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations in any future reporting period. Risks Related to Our Investing and Financing Strategy We have and may incur additional debt that could increase your investment risks We and certain of our consolidated affiliates have borrowed money or issued debt securities, which give our lenders and the holder of our debt securities fixed dollar claims on our assets or the assets of such consolidated affiliates that are senior to the claims of our shareholders and, thus, our lenders have preference over our shareholders with respect to these assets. In particular, the assets that our consolidated affiliates have pledged to lenders under the Term Debt Notes were sold or contributed to separate affiliated statutory trusts prior to such pledge. While we own a beneficial interest in these trusts, these assets are the property of the respective trusts, available to satisfy the debts of the trusts, and would only become available for distribution to our shareholders to the extent specifically permitted under the agreements governing those term debt notes. Additionally, we have granted a security interest in substantially all of our other assets to the holders of our secured debt due 2013 which impose certain limitations on us. The following table is designed to illustrate the effect on returns to a holder of our common stock of the leverage created by our use of borrowing, at the weighted average interest rate of 5.4% for the year ended 24 December 31, 2010, and assuming hypothetical annual returns on our portfolio of minus 15% to plus 15%. As can be seen, leverage generally increases the return to shareholders when the portfolio return is positive and decreases return when the portfolio return is negative. Actual returns may be greater or less than those appearing in the table. Assumed Return on Portfolio (Net of Expenses)(1) -15.0 % -10.0 % -5.0 % 0.0 % 5.0 % 10.0 % 15.0 % Corresponding Return to Common Stockholders(2) -20.1 % -11.8 % -3.5 % 4.8 % 13.1 % 21.4 % 29.7 % (1) The assumed portfolio return is required by regulation of the SEC and is not a prediction of, and does not represent, our projected or actual performance. (2) In order to compute the “Corresponding Return to Common Shareholders,” the “Assumed Return on Portfolio” is multiplied by the total value of our assets at the beginning of the period to obtain an assumed return to us. From this amount, all interest expense accrued during the period is subtracted to determine the return available to shareholders. The return available to shareholders is then divided by the total value of our net assets as of the beginning of the period to determine the “Corresponding Return to Common Shareholders.” Although outstanding debt increases the potential for gain, it also increases the risk of loss of income or capital. This is the case, whether we are impacted by an increase or decrease in income or due to increases or decreases in asset values. Our ability to pay dividends is similarly impacted by outstanding debt. We currently have a non-investment grade corporate credit rating and we could experience further downgrades As of December 31, 2010, our corporate credit rating was B2, B- and B+ by Moody’s Investor Services, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Fitch Ratings, respectively. Any rating below BBB or Baa2 is considered non-investment grade. If these credit ratings were to not improve or be further downgraded, our ability to refinance or raise additional debt could be negatively impacted. Any of these occurrences could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our credit ratings may not reflect all risks of an investment in our debt securities Our credit ratings are an assessment by major debt rating agencies of our ability to pay our obligations. Consequently, actual or expected changes in our credit ratings will likely affect the market value of our publicly issued debt securities. Our credit ratings, however, may not fully or accurately reflect all of the credit and market risks associated with our outstanding debt securities. Under certain circumstances, we are unable to sell assets below a certain fraction of their fair values We may need to sell certain assets to produce liquidity from time to time in order to repay our secured debt when it comes due in December 2013 and remaining unsecured public notes when they come due, to cover our current operating and financing costs under circumstances when our income is insufficient to cover such costs, or to fund any cash dividend to our shareholders to maintain our qualification as a RIC. In order to generate liquidity, we may need to sell certain assets at prices lower than their fair values or at prices lower than we could realize in future periods if we were to continue to hold the investments. We are limited under the terms of our debt agreements from selling a substantial portion of our portfolio investments below their fair market values under certain circumstances if such debt remains outstanding subsequent to the sale. Thus, there can be no assurances that we will be able to sell assets to generate sufficient liquidity in such circumstances. 25 We may not realize gains from our equity investments We invest in equity assets with the goal to realize income and gains from the performance and disposition of these assets. Some or all of these equity assets may not produce income or gains; accordingly, we may not be able to realize income or gains from our equity assets. We may reduce our income and return on equity if we sell certain income producing assets. We may need to sell assets to repay debt or for other corporate purposes. This may reduce our income and return on equity. Our portfolio companies may be highly leveraged with debt. The debt levels of our portfolio companies may have important adverse consequences to such companies and to us as an investor. Portfolio companies that are indebted may be subject to restrictive financial and operating covenants. The leverage may impair these companies’ ability to finance their future operations and capital needs. As a result, their flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to business opportunities may be limited. A company’s income and net worth will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if the company did not capitalize itself in part with debt. Investment in non-investment grade Structured Products may be illiquid, may have a higher risk of default, and may not produce current returns Our investments in Structured Products securities are generally non-investment grade, which means that major rating agencies rate them below the top four investment-grade rating categories (i.e., “AAA” through “BBB”). Non-investment grade Structured Products bonds and preferred shares tend to be less liquid, may have a higher risk of default and may be more difficult to value than investment grade bonds. Recessions or poor economic or pricing conditions in the markets associated with Structured Products may cause defaults or losses on these bonds and preferred shares. Non-investment grade securities are considered speculative, and their capacity to pay principal and interest in accordance with the terms of their issue is not certain. Our assets include investments in Structured Products that are subordinate in right of payment to more senior securities Our assets include subordinated CMBS, CLO and CDO securities that are subordinated classes of securities in a structure of securities secured by a pool of loans and accordingly are the first or among the first to bear the loss upon a restructuring or liquidation of the underlying collateral and the last to receive payment of interest and principal. Additionally, estimated fair values of these subordinated interests tend to be more sensitive to changes in economic conditions than more senior securities. As a result, such subordinated interests generally are not actively traded and may not provide holders thereof with liquid investments. A significant portion of the investments we have made in Structured Products have experienced significant losses and declines in interest and principal payments. The trading market or market value of our publicly issued debt securities may fluctuate Our publicly issued debt securities do not have an established trading market. There is no assurance that a trading market for our publicly issued debt securities will ever develop or be maintained if developed. Additionally, many factors may materially adversely affect the trading market for, and market value of, our publicly issued debt securities including, but not limited to, the following: • future defaults under the securities; • our creditworthiness; • the time remaining to the maturity of these debt securities; 26 • the outstanding principal amount of debt securities with terms identical to these debt securities; • the supply of debt securities trading in the secondary market, if any; • the redemption or repayment features, if any, of these debt securities; • the level, direction and volatility of market interest rates generally; and • market rates of interest that are higher or lower than rates borne by the debt securities. There may also be a limited number of buyers when an investor decides to sell its debt securities. This too may materially adversely affect the market value of the debt securities or the trading market for the debt securities. We have restrictions on the type of assets we can invest in as a BDC As a BDC, we may not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets”, as defined in the 1940 Act, unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. Thus, we may be precluded from investing in potentially attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 1940 Act. In addition, there is a risk that this restriction could prevent us from making additional investments in our existing non-qualifying investments, which could cause our position to be diluted or limit the access to capital of our non-qualifying investments. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We do not expect to pay dividends in 2011 and may not in subsequent years We are required to distribute more than 90% of our taxable ordinary income to our shareholders in order to continue to qualify as a RIC and have distributed sufficient dividends to eliminate our taxable ordinary income and taxable net capital gains. As a RIC, we can elect to retain our taxable net long-term capital gains and pay a federal income tax on such gains on behalf of our shareholders treating them as a deemed distribution for tax purposes. However, we incurred both a taxable ordinary loss and a capital loss for the tax fiscal year ended September 30, 2010 and, therefore, do not have any dividend distribution requirements attributable to that tax fiscal year. There is a risk that we also will not generate taxable income in future periods and, therefore, would not have any dividend distribution requirement for those periods. Moreover, even if we generate future long-term capital gains, our requirement to distribute those gains as dividends could be reduced by the amount of any net capital loss carry-forward. (Ordinary taxable losses may not be carried forward from one year to another by a RIC.) We would no longer qualify as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code if we no longer met the income, asset diversification or distribution requirements. In any such instance, we would be subject to federal and state income tax on our taxable income. However, we would no longer be required to distribute 90% of our taxable ordinary income to continue to qualify as a RIC. If we no longer were subject to the taxable income distribution requirements of a RIC, we could elect to retain our taxable income, if any, and not distribute it to our shareholders. If we fail to qualify as a RIC in any taxable year, we will be subject to tax in such year on all of our taxable income, if any. Additionally, we could carry forward ordinary taxable losses in those circumstances for up to 20 years as long as we do not re-elect RIC status. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will support payment of a dividend or maintain a tax status that will allow the deductibility of a dividend from our taxable income. 27 We may not have sufficient liquidity to pay a cash dividend In order to qualify as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our taxable ordinary income. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient liquidity to pay our required distribution amounts by the required dates in order to maintain our qualification and eliminate our taxable income. Also, pursuant to applicable tax regulations, we are also required to include in taxable income certain amounts that have not yet been collected in cash such as payment-in-kind (“PIK”) interest or original issue discount (“OID”) accretion. Since we may be required to recognize taxable income before or without receiving cash representing such taxable income, we may have difficulty meeting the requirement to distribute at least 90% of our taxable ordinary income to continue to qualify as a RIC. There is a risk that you may receive our stock as dividends Under the 1940 Act, if a BDC has any senior debt investments outstanding that were publicly issued, the BDC must make provision to prohibit the declaration of any dividend (except a dividend payable in the stock of the BDC) if its asset coverage ratio is below 200% at the time of the distribution after deducting the amount of such dividend. We have received guidance from the staff of the SEC that notwithstanding this provision of the 1940 Act, we are able to declare and pay dividends pursuant to IRS Revenue Procedure 2010-12, which temporarily allows a RIC to distribute its own stock as a dividend for the purpose of fulfilling its distribution requirements. Pursuant to this revenue procedure, we may treat a distribution of our stock as a dividend if (i) the stock is publicly traded on an established securities market, (ii) the distribution is declared by December 31, 2012 with respect to a taxable year ending on or before December 31, 2011, and (iii) each shareholder may elect to receive his or her entire distribution in either cash or our stock subject to a limitation on the aggregate amount of cash to be distributed to all shareholders, which must be at least 10% of the aggregate declared distribution. If too many shareholders elect to receive cash, each shareholder electing to receive cash will receive a pro rata amount of cash (with the balance of the distribution paid in stock). In no event would any shareholder electing to receive cash receive less than 10% of his or her entire distribution in cash. Future dividends with respect to a taxable year ending on or before December 31, 2011, if any, may be paid in shares of our common stock, subject to the limitations discussed above. As noted above, our ability to pay cash dividends is also restricted under certain circumstances under the terms of our debt agreements. We are permitted to pay cash dividends only: (i) to the extent required to maintain our status as a RIC and eliminate our taxable income so long as we pay a portion of such dividends in shares of our common stock to the maximum level permitted by applicable law, or (ii) if our asset coverage is at least 200% after giving effect to such cash dividends and we are not in default under the agreements. Future equity issuances may be on terms adverse to shareholder interests Upon the receipt of shareholder authorization, we may issue equity capital at prices below our NAV per share. As of the date of this filing, we do not have shareholder authorization to sell any shares at a price below our NAV per share; however, we may seek such approval in the future. If we issue any shares of common stock below our NAV per share, the interests of our existing shareholders may be diluted. Any such dilution could include a reduction in our NAV per share as a result of the issuance of shares at a price below the NAV per share and a decrease in a shareholder’s interest in our earnings and assets and voting interest. As of December 31, 2010, the closing price of our common stock was below our NAV per share. Also, during 2010, with prior shareholder approval, we issued shares of our common stock below NAV per share. 28 The following table is designed to illustrate the dilutive effect on NAV per share if we issue shares of common stock below our NAV per share. The table below reflects NAV per share diluted for the hypothetical issuance of 50,000,000 shares of common stock, at hypothetical sales prices of 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25% and 50% below the December 31, 2010 NAV of $10.71 per share. Assumed Sales price per share below NAV(1) -50 % -25 % -20 % -15 % -10 % -5 % Diluted NAV per share $ 10.03 $ 10.37 $ 10.44 $ 10.51 $ 10.58 $ 10.64 % Dilution -6.4 % -3.2 % -2.5 % -1.9 % -1.3 % -0.6 % (1) The assumed sales price per share is assumed to be net of any applicable underwriting commissions or discounts. If we cannot meet NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements, NASDAQ may delist our common stock, which could have an adverse impact on the liquidity and market price of our common stock Our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market. Under NASDAQ rules, a stock can be delisted and not allowed to trade on NASDAQ if the closing bid price of the stock over a 30 consecutive trading-day period is less than $1.00 per share. There is a risk that the share price of our common stock could decline to levels over a period of time so that we could no longer meet these listing requirements, and thus may be delisted from NASDAQ. A delisting of our common stock could negatively impact us by reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock and the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively impact our stock price and ability to raise equity financing. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the low closing price of our common stock as reported on The NASDAQ Global Select Market was $2.46 per share and $0.58 per share, respectively, and the closing price on December 31, 2010 was $7.56 per share. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly The market price and marketability of shares of our securities may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors, including many over which we have no control and that may not be directly related to us. These factors include the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the stock market from time to time, which are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies; • defaulting on our debt covenants; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of RICs, BDCs or other companies in our sector, which is not necessarily related to the operating performance of particular companies; • changes in laws, regulatory policies, tax guidelines or financial accounting standards, particularly with respect to RICs or BDCs; • changes in our dividend policy and earnings or variations in operating results; • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts and the market in general; • decreases in our NAV per share; • general economic trends and other external factors; and • loss of a major funding source. Fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our common stock and, in the event that we seek to raise capital through future equity financings, our ability to raise such equity capital. 29 Our common stock may be difficult to resell Investors may not be able to resell shares of common stock at or above their purchase prices due to a number of factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuation in our operating results; • volatility in our common stock price; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; and • departures of key personnel. Provisions of our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Second Amended and Restated Bylaws could deter takeover attempts Our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended and Second Amended and Restated Bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging and delaying or making more difficult a change in control. The existence of these provisions may negatively impact the price of our common stock and may discourage third party bids. These provisions may reduce any premiums paid to our shareholders for shares of our common stock that they own. Furthermore, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 203 governs business combinations with interested shareholders, and also could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 