Risk Factors Our limited operating capital and our ability to raise additional money may harm our ability to develop and market our products as well as support future revenue growth To date, we have required significant capital for product development, subcontracted production and marketing. We have funded these from the sale of products, the sale of product and technology licenses and from royalties as well as from the sale of our convertible debt and equity securities. In recent years, we have experienced significant revenue growth. In order to support that growth, we must order more silicon wafers than we have historically. The cash required for inventory purchases, including silicon wafers, has been greater than the cash generated from sales. Therefore, our cash requirements have been difficult to maintain. We may need more capital in the future to develop new products and support higher revenue. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to raise more capital on reasonable terms, if at all. If we cannot, then we may not be able to purchase adequate amounts of inventory to support revenue growth or to develop and market new products, causing our financial position and stock price to deteriorate. We have a history of operating losses We began business in 1987. Through December 31, 2007, we had accumulated losses of approximately $50.1 million. During the period July 1, 2000 and through December 31, 2007, we realized net losses for all periods except the fourth quarter of 2006, we may experience net operating losses in the future, which could increase our need for additional capital in the future, and hurt our stock price. 16 We might not be able to re-gain compliance with certain covenants set forth in our loan agreement with the RENN Capital Group; if we are unable to do so, the RENN Capital Group could accelerate the $2.1 million debentures and foreclose on the collateral that we granted to it Our loan agreement with Renaissance Capital Growth and Income Fund III, Inc., Renaissance US Growth Investment Trust PLC and US Special Opportunities Trust PLC, or the RENN Capital Group, formerly Renaissance Capital Group, Inc., contains various financial covenants. As of December 31, 2007, we were not in compliance with one of the covenants set forth in the loan agreement, which relates to the interest coverage ratio. On February 8, 2008, we received a waiver for the covenant through January 1, 2009. However, significant variances in future actual operations from our current estimates could result in the reclassification of this note to a current liability. If the note becomes due and we cannot pay it, RENN Capital Group may foreclose on the assets that we pledged as security for the note. This would significantly harm our business. If we cannot receive silicon wafers we require to manufacture our products from our vendors at the volumes or the prices we require, our revenues, earnings and stock price could suffer We currently purchase the silicon wafers we require to build our non-volatile memory products from two vendors, Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Plc. of Singapore, and Dongbu in Korea, and one new vendor starting in 2007 which is Cypress. Due to the volatility of the semiconductor market, we have limited control over the pricing and availability of the wafers we require in order to build our products. The risk of not receiving the products and pricing we need to achieve our revenue objectives has escalated. If we are unable to obtain the products and pricing we need from these vendors, our business could suffer. The uncertainty involved in manufacturing semiconductors may increase the costs and decrease the production of our products In order for us to be profitable, we must drive our manufacturing costs down and secure the production of sufficient product. Semiconductor manufacturing depends on many factors that are complex and beyond our control and often beyond the control of our subcontractors. These factors include contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the raw materials used and equipment malfunctions. Under our arrangements with our subcontractors, our subcontractors pass on to us substantially all of their costs that are unique to the manufacture of our products. Accordingly, these factors could increase the cost of manufacturing our products and decrease our profits. These factors could also reduce the number of semiconductor memories that our subcontractors are able to make in a production run. If our subcontractors produce fewer of our products, our revenues may decline. 17 Delays in manufacturing may negatively impact our revenue and net income It takes approximately four months for our subcontractors to manufacture our semiconductor products. Any delays in receiving silicon wafers or completed products from our subcontractors will delay our ability to deliver our products to customers. This would delay sales revenue and could cause our customers to cancel existing orders or not place future orders. These delays could occur at any time and would adversely affect our net income. Delays in or failure of product qualification may harm our business Prior to selling a product, we must establish that it meets expected performance and reliability standards. As part of this testing process, known as product qualification, we subject representative samples of products to a variety of tests to ensure that performance is in accordance with commercial, industrial and military specifications, as applicable. If we are unable to successfully accomplish product qualification for our future products, we will be unable to sell these future products. Our success depends on our ability to introduce new products The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid changes in technology and product obsolescence. Our success in the semiconductor industry depends in part upon our ability to expand our existing product families and to develop and market new products. The technology we currently use may be made obsolete by other competing or newly developed memory or other technologies. The development of new semiconductor designs and technologies typically requires substantial costs for research and development. Even if we are able to develop new products, the success of each new product depends on several factors including whether we developed a proper product and our ability to introduce it at the right time, whether the product is able to achieve acceptable production yields and whether the market accepts the new product. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in developing new products or whether any products that we do develop will satisfy the above factors. The cyclicality of the semiconductor industry may prevent us from maintaining a consistent revenue stream and may harm our stock price The semiconductor industry has historically experienced significant peaks and valleys in sales volumes resulting in large variations of revenues and resulting profits or losses. We do not have direct influence on the nature of the broad semiconductor market. Variations in the revenues and profits within the semiconductor industry may cause us to incur significant losses in the future. If the stock prices of many semiconductor companies decrease, our stock price may also suffer. If we fail to complete our agreement or if we fail to successfully implement products with Cypress Semiconductor, our liquidity and revenues may suffer On May 5, 2005, we closed a production and development agreement with Cypress Semiconductor Corporation to jointly develop an “S8” 0.13-micron silicon-oxide-nitride-oxide-silicon (SONOS) nonvolatile memory production process. The production and development agreement also calls for Cypress to produce one or more Simtek products, as designated by Simtek, using the S8 18 process. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully develop and bring to qualified volume production products based on the S8 process or that Cypress will be able to develop embedded products contemplated to be developed using Simtek’s intellectual property. If the development of the S8 process is delayed or fails, or if Cypress is unable to meet our production requirements, we might not be able to meet potential future orders planned to be received from our customers. This could significantly harm our revenue and future growth potential. We also entered into an escrow agreement pursuant to which we deposited $3 million into an escrow account in order to support and make certain payments for the S8 process and product developments. If we fail to complete the development and production agreement, we might forfeit our rights to the escrow amount. Certain of our Registration Rights Agreements provide for penalties if we fail to follow certain procedures or maintain an effective registration related to the shares purchased by such investors The Registration Rights Agreement entered into as part of the December 30, 2005 Securities Purchase Agreement amounting to $11,000,000 contained a cash penalty provision if certain procedures are not followed or an effective Registration Statement is not maintained for the shares purchased by investors in such transaction. The cash penalties are 2% of the proceeds for each month that a breach occurs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain such effective Registration Statement. The Registration Rights Agreement entered into as part of the September 21, 2006 Securities Purchase Agreement amounting to $4,555,000 contained a provision whereby the investors therein would receive certain amounts of penalty shares if certain procedures are not followed or an effective Registration Statement is not maintained for the shares purchased by the investors. The penalties are 2% of the shares purchased for each month that a breach occurs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain such effective Registration Statement. The intense competition in the semiconductor industry may cause us to lose sales revenue to other suppliers There is intense competition in the semiconductor industry. We experience competition from a number of domestic and foreign companies, most of which have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we have. Our competitors include major corporations with worldwide silicon wafer fabrication facilities and circuit production facilities and diverse, established product lines. If any of our new products achieve market acceptance, other companies may sell competitive products at prices below ours. This would have an adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. The loss of key employees could materially affect our financial results Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain qualified technical and management personnel. There are limited personnel trained in the semiconductor industry resulting in intense competition for these personnel. With the uncertainty of the current economy and our financial performance and competitive position, we believe we may be more likely to experience loss of key personnel than in prior periods. If we lose any of our key personnel, this could have a material adverse affect on our ability to conduct our business and on our financial results. 19 Our patents may not provide us effective intellectual property protection; this could harm our business We own 13 U.S. patents and one German patent. We have also applied inside and outside the United States for patents on our technology. We are not sure that any of the patents for which we have applied will be issued or, even if they are issued, that they will provide us with desired protection from competition. We may also not have the money required to maintain or enforce our patent rights. Notwithstanding our patents, other companies may obtain patents directed to alternate or comparable technologies. Portions of our intellectual property are retained as trade secrets. Unlike patents, trade secrets must remain confidential in order to retain protection as proprietary intellectual property. We cannot assure you that our trade secrets will remain confidential. If we lose trade secret protection, our business could suffer. If our products and technology infringe on third party patents, our product sales or gross margins may suffer We have not determined whether our products are free from infringement of others’ patents. If patent infringement claims are asserted against us and are upheld, we would try to modify our products so that they are non-infringing. If we are unable to do so, we could have to obtain a license to sell those products or stop selling the products for which the claims are asserted. We may not be able to obtain the required licenses. Any successful infringement claim against us, our failure to obtain any required license or requirement for us to stop selling any of our products, may force us to discontinue production and shipment of these products. This could result in reduced product sales and harm our revenues. In 1998, we received notice of a claim for an unspecified amount from a foundation that owns approximately 180 patents and 70 pending applications. The foundation claimed that some of the machines and processes used in the building of our semiconductor devices infringe on the foundation’s patents. In April 1999, we reached an agreement with the foundation for us to purchase a nonexclusive license of the foundation’s patents, based on our product offerings and sales forecast at that time. If our products or actual sales revenue vary significantly from the time of the agreement, we may be subject to additional payments. In late 2002, we received notice of possible patent infringement from a corporation that has acquired a portfolio of patents. We have reviewed the claim and believe there are no potential infringements. We have received no further notification from this corporation. While there can be no assurances, if there are any infringements, we believe we would be able to enter into a licensing agreement with such company without any material impact on us. 20 Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may increase our costs, lower our revenues and cause loss of customers to our competitors We purchase materials, including silicon wafers, from outside the United States. Sales to customers located outside of the United States for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were 86%, 73%, and 74%, respectively. We operate using United States dollars as the functional currency. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates can reduce our revenues and increase our costs. For example, our subcontractors may increase the prices they charge us, on a per purchase order basis, for silicon wafers if the United States dollar weakens. Any large exchange rate fluctuation could affect our ability to compete with manufacturers who operate using foreign currencies. We do not try to reduce our exposure to these exchange rate risks by using hedging transactions. Although we have not had any material losses due to exchange rate fluctuations over the last three years, we cannot assure you that we will not incur significant losses in the future. If we issue securities at low prices in the future, some of our security holders may be entitled to acquire more of our securities, which may dilute and harm the holders of our common stock We may be obligated under agreements with certain of our security holders to issue to them additional securities in exchange for little or no consideration if we sell our securities in the future at or below certain prices. The issuance of such securities could dilute and harm the holders of our common stock. Because we do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, your investment return may be limited We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to use any earnings to finance growth. You should not expect to receive dividends on your shares of common stock. If our board of directors authorizes the issuance of preferred stock, holders of our common stock could be diluted and harmed Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 200,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to establish the preferred stock’s voting powers, preferences and other rights and qualifications without any further vote or action by the shareholders. The issuance of preferred stock by our board of directors could dilute and harm the rights of the holders of our common stock. It could potentially be used to discourage attempts by others to obtain control of us through merger, tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise by making such attempts more difficult to achieve or more costly. Given our present capital requirements, it is possible that we could raise capital through the sale of preferred stock in the future. 21 Our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law may operate as anti-takeover protections and thus may discourage takeover attempts and/or depress the market price of our common stock We have opted to be governed, in our Delaware certificate of incorporation, by Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides for a three-year moratorium on certain business combination transactions with “interested stockholders” (generally, persons who beneficially own 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock). Although we believe that Section 203 will encourage any potential acquirer to negotiate with our board of directors, Section 203 also might have the effect of limiting the ability of a potential acquirer to make a two-tiered bid for the company in which all stockholders would not be treated equally. In addition, Section 203 gives the board the power to reject a proposed business combination in certain circumstances, even though a potential acquirer may be offering a substantial premium for our common stock over the then-current market price. Section 203 would also discourage certain potential acquirers who are unwilling to comply with its provisions. Because a proposed amendment to our certificate of incorporation may not be submitted to a vote of shareholders without the approval of the board of directors, amending or removing any provisions in our certificate of incorporation that have anti-takeover effects requires the consent of the board of directors, which in turn may have anti-takeover effects. Standards for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are uncertain, and if we fail to comply in a timely manner, our business could be harmed and our stock price would decline. Rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act require annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, and attestation of our assessment by our independent auditors. This requirement may apply to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009. The standards that must be met for management to assess the internal control over financial reporting as effective are new and complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards. We may encounter problems or delays in completing activities necessary to make an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the attestation process by our independent auditors is new and we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any requested improvements or remediation and receiving an attestation of our assessment by our independent auditors. We can provide no assurance as to our, or our independent auditors’, conclusions at December 31, 2009, with respect to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The above factors creates a risk that our independent auditors, will not be able to conclude at December 31, 2009 that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we cannot assess our internal control over financial reporting as effective, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on such assessment, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the trading price of our stock could drop. 22 Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 