ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following factors, together with all the other information included in this report, in evaluating our company and our business. We currently depend on our TouchPad products, and the notebook computer market, for a significant portion of our revenue, and a downturn in these products or this market could have a disproportionate impact on our revenue. Historically, we have derived a very substantial portion of our revenue from the sale of our TouchPad products for notebook computers. Those products accounted for approximately 57% of our net revenue in fiscal 2009 and 59% of our net revenue in fiscal 2010. While our long-term objective is to derive revenue from human interface solutions in the markets for digital lifestyle products and other electronic devices, we anticipate that sales of our TouchPads for notebooks will continue to represent a significant portion of our revenue. In 2009, the PC market as a whole experienced a slowdown in the rate of growth; subsequently, the notebook portion of the PC market has expanded, although at a slower rate, with the lower priced notebooks including netbooks having been responsible for a major portion of recent growth. A softening of demand in the notebook portion of the PC market, a reduced level of our participation in the notebook portion of the PC market, or a slowdown of growth in the netbook portion of the notebook market because of consumer preferences, the emergence of tablet or slate devices, or other factors would cause our business, financial condition, and results of operations to suffer more than they would if we offered a more diversified line of products. Net revenue from our human interface solutions for digital lifestyle products has been volatile in the past, and our net revenue from our human interface solutions for digital lifestyle products may not increase or be less volatile in the future. Net revenue from our human interface solutions for digital lifestyle products, particularly mobile smartphones and feature phones and portable digital music players, has been volatile in the past. Net revenue from our human interface solutions for mobile smartphones and feature phones only became material in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. Our net revenue from our human interface solutions for digital lifestyle products may not increase or be less volatile in the future. Net revenue from our human interface solutions for digital lifestyle products was $203.7 million (which included $166.3 million for mobile smartphones and feature phones and $37.4 million for portable digital music players), or 43% of our net revenue, in fiscal 2009 and $209.1 million (which included $177.4 million for mobile smartphones and feature phones and $31.7 million for portable digital music players), or 41% of our net revenue, in fiscal 2010. Our interface business for digital lifestyle products faces many uncertainties, including our success in penetrating new markets dominated by a limited number of OEMs and market acceptance of our product solutions over competitive product solutions. Our inability to address these uncertainties successfully and to be a leading supplier of human interfaces for digital lifestyle products would negatively affect our growth rate. We do not know whether our human interface solutions for the digital lifestyle product market will capture a larger portion of the overall market or will account for a substantial portion of our revenue on a consistent basis. The failure to succeed in these markets would result in a negative return on the substantial investments we have made to date and plan to make in the future to penetrate these markets. We cannot assure you that our human interface business for digital lifestyle products will continue to be successful or that we will be able to continue to generate significant revenue from the markets for digital lifestyle products. Various target markets for our interfaces, such as those for mobile smartphones and feature phones, GPS devices, smart handheld devices, and interactive games and toys, may develop slower than anticipated or could utilize competing technologies. The market for certain of these products depends in part upon the continued development and deployment of wireless and other technologies, which may or may not address the needs of users of these products. Our ability to generate significant revenue from the markets for certain digital lifestyle products will depend on various factors, including the following: • the continued development and growth of these markets; • the ability of our technologies and product solutions to address the needs of these markets, the price and performance requirements of OEMs, and the preferences of end users; and • our ability to provide OEMs with human interface solutions that provide advantages in terms of size, power consumption, reliability, durability, performance, and value-added features compared with alternative solutions. 16 Table of Contents Many manufacturers of these products have well-established relationships with competitive suppliers. Our ongoing success in these markets will require us to offer better performance alternatives to other solutions at competitive costs. The failure of any of these target markets to develop as we expect, or our failure to serve these markets to a significant extent, will impede our sales growth and could result in substantially reduced earnings. We cannot predict the size or growth rate of these markets or the market share we will achieve in these markets in the future. A majority of our historical financial performance is based on net revenue generated from our human interface solutions to the notebook computer market and may not be indicative of our future performance in other markets, including the market for mobile smartphones and feature phones. A majority of our historical financial performance reflects net revenue generated from our human interface solutions for notebook computers. While we expect sales of our human interface solutions for notebook computers to continue to generate a substantial percentage of our revenue, we expect to derive a significant portion of our revenue from sales of our product solutions for digital lifestyle products, including mobile smartphones and feature phones, portable digital music players, and other electronic devices. We have a limited operating history in these markets, especially for mobile smartphones and feature phones, upon which you can evaluate our prospects, which may make it difficult to predict our actual results in future periods. Actual results of our future operations may differ materially from our anticipated results. We anticipate that our human interface solutions for mobile smartphones and feature phones will continue to constitute a significant portion of our net revenue. Net revenue for our human interface solutions for mobile smartphones and feature phones was not material until the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, but accounted for approximately a third of our net revenue in fiscal 2009 and 2010. Our ongoing success in serving the mobile smartphone and feature phone market will depend upon the continued growth of that portion of the overall mobile phone market; the utilization of high-functionality interactive touchscreens rather than mechanical buttons and keypads as the human interface for application and content access and control in those products; our ability to demonstrate to mobile phone OEMs, including those with which we have had no prior relationship, the advantages of our human interface solutions in terms of performance, size, durability, power consumption, and industrial design possibilities at attractive prices such that they adopt our solutions; and the success of OEMs products utilizing our human interface solutions. In addition, our success will depend on our ability to demonstrate to mobile smartphone OEMs, the advantages of our flexible touchscreen fulfillment model through offering a full range of touchscreen solutions. Market acceptance of our customers’ existing or new products that utilize our human interface solution may decline or may not develop and, as a result, our sales may decline or may not increase. We do not sell any products to end users. Instead, we design various human interface solutions that our OEM customers incorporate into their products. As a result, our success depends almost entirely upon the widespread market acceptance of our OEM customers’ products. We do not control or influence the manufacture, promotion, distribution, or pricing of the products that incorporate our human interface solutions. Instead, we depend on our customers to manufacture and distribute products incorporating our human interface solutions and to generate consumer demand through marketing and promotional activities. Even if our technologies successfully meet our customers’ price and performance goals, our sales would decline or fail to develop if our customers do not achieve commercial success in selling their products that incorporate our human interface solutions. Competitive advances by OEMs in the PC or digital lifestyle product markets, which do not utilize our human interface solutions broadly in their product offerings, at the expense of our OEM customers could result in lost sales opportunities. Within the digital lifestyle product market, the mobile smartphone market has become an important factor in our operating results. Any failure to expand our presence in this market, a significant slowdown in the use of our human interface solutions by our customers in this market, the reduced demand for our customers’ products, or a slowdown of growth in this market would adversely affect our sales. 17 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain and build relationships with our customers and do not continue to satisfy our customers, we may lose future sales and our revenue may stagnate or decline. Because our success depends on the widespread market acceptance of our OEM customers’ products, we must continue to maintain our relationships with the leading notebook computer and portable digital music player OEMs and expand our relationships with mobile smartphone OEMs. In addition, we must identify areas of significant growth potential in other markets, establish relationships with OEMs in those markets, and assist those OEMs in developing products that use our interface technologies. Our failure to identify potential growth opportunities, particularly in the mobile smartphone and feature phone market, or establish and maintain relationships with OEMs in those markets, would prevent our business from growing in those markets. Our ability to meet the expectations of our customers requires us to provide innovative human interface solutions for customers on a timely and cost-effective basis and to maintain customer satisfaction with our human interface solutions. We must match our design and production capacity with customer demand, maintain satisfactory delivery schedules, and meet performance goals. If we are unable to achieve these goals for any reason, our customers could reduce their purchases from us and our sales would decline or fail to develop. Our customer relationships also can be affected by factors affecting our customers that are unrelated to our performance. These factors can include a myriad of situations, including business reversals of customers, determinations by customers to change their product mix or abandon business segments, or mergers, consolidations, or acquisitions involving our customers. The loss of revenue from one or more large customers could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Sales to two customers that provide contract manufacturing services to major OEMs accounted for an aggregate of 25% of our net revenue for fiscal 2009, and two customers accounted for 21% of our net revenue for fiscal 2010. These customers were TPK Touch Solutions and Inventec in fiscal 2009 and Zhan Yun Shanghai Electronics and Compal in fiscal 2010. Additionally, receivables from each of Zhan Yun Shanghai Electronics and Compal exceeded 10% of accounts receivable and in the aggregate represented 30% of accounts receivable at the end of fiscal 2010. Compal, Futaihua, Inventec, Kuroda, Protek, Wistron, TPK and Zhan Yun Shanghai Electronics are some of the contract manufacturers that serve our OEM customers. Any material delay, cancellation, or reduction of orders from any one or more of these contract manufacturers or the OEMs they serve could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The adverse effect would be more substantial if our other customers do not increase their orders or if we are unsuccessful in generating orders for human interface solutions from new customers. Many of these contract manufacturers sell to the same OEMs, and therefore our concentration with certain OEMs may be higher than with any individual contract manufacturer. Concentration in our customer base may make fluctuations in revenue and earnings more severe and make business planning more difficult. We rely on others for our production and any interruptions of these arrangements could disrupt our ability to fill our customers’ orders. We utilize contract manufacturers for all of our production requirements. The majority of our manufacturing is conducted in China, Taiwan, and Thailand by contract manufacturers that also perform services for numerous other companies. We do not have a guaranteed level of production capacity with any of our contract manufacturers. Qualifying new contract manufacturers, and specifically semiconductor foundries, is time consuming and might result in unforeseen manufacturing and operations problems. The loss of our relationships with our contract manufacturers or assemblers or their inability to conduct their manufacturing and assembly services for us as anticipated in terms of capacity, cost, quality, and timeliness could adversely affect our ability to fill customer orders in accordance with required delivery, quality, and performance requirements. If this were to occur, the resulting decline in revenue would harm our business. 18 Table of Contents We depend on third parties to maintain satisfactory manufacturing yields and delivery schedules, and their inability to do so could increase our costs, disrupt our supply chain, and result in our inability to deliver our products, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We depend on our contract manufacturers to maintain high levels of productivity and satisfactory delivery schedules at manufacturing and assembly facilities located primarily in China, Taiwan, and Thailand. We provide our contract manufacturers with six-month rolling forecasts of our production requirements. We do not, however, have long-term agreements with any of our contract manufacturers that guarantee production capacity, prices, lead times, or delivery schedules. Our contract manufacturers serve other customers, a number of which have greater production requirements than we do. As a result, our contract manufacturers could determine to prioritize production capacity for other customers or reduce or eliminate deliveries to us on short notice. At times, we have experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields and lengthening of delivery schedules. Lower than expected manufacturing yields could increase our costs or disrupt our supplies. We may encounter lower manufacturing yields and longer delivery schedules in commencing volume production of new products that we introduce. Any of these problems could result in our inability to deliver our product solutions in a timely manner and adversely affect our operating results. Shortages of components and materials may delay or reduce our sales and increase our costs, thereby harming our results of operations. The inability to obtain sufficient quantities of components and other materials necessary for the production of our products could result in reduced or delayed sales or lost orders. Any delay in or loss of sales could adversely impact our operating results. Many of the materials used in the production of our products are available only from a limited number of foreign suppliers, particularly suppliers located in Asia. In most cases, neither we nor our contract manufacturers have long-term supply contracts with these suppliers. As a result, we are subject to economic instability in these Asian countries as well as to increased costs, supply interruptions, and difficulties in obtaining materials. Our customers also may encounter difficulties or increased costs in obtaining the materials necessary to produce their products into which our product solutions are incorporated. From time to time, materials and components used in our product solutions or in other aspects of our customers’ products have been subject to allocation because of shortages of these materials and components. Future shortages of materials and components, including potential supply constraints of silicon, could cause delayed shipments, customer dissatisfaction, and lower revenue. We are subject to lengthy development periods and product acceptance cycles, which can result in development and engineering costs without any future revenue. We provide human interface solutions that are incorporated by OEMs into the products they sell. OEMs make the determination during their product development programs whether to incorporate our human interface solutions or pursue other alternatives. This process requires us to make significant investments of time and resources in the design of human interface solutions well before our customers introduce their products incorporating these interfaces and before we can be sure that we will generate any significant sales to our customers or even recover our investment. During a customer’s entire product development process, we face the risk that our interfaces will fail to meet our customer’s technical, performance, or cost requirements or that our products will be replaced by competitive products or alternative technological solutions. Even if we complete our design process in a manner satisfactory to our customer, the customer may delay or terminate its product development efforts. The occurrence of any of these events could cause sales to not materialize, to be deferred, or to be cancelled, which would adversely affect our operating results. We do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers, and their ability to cancel, reduce, or delay orders could reduce our revenue and increase our costs. Our customers do not provide us with firm, long-term volume purchase commitments, but instead issue purchase orders. As a result, customers can cancel purchase orders or reduce or delay orders at any time. The cancellation, delay, or reduction of customer purchase orders could result in reduced revenue, excess inventory, and unabsorbed overhead. We have an established presence in the notebook computer market and have only recently established a presence in the digital lifestyle products markets. Our success in the digital lifestyle product markets, including those for mobile smartphones and feature phones and portable digital music players, require us to establish the value added by our products to OEMs that have traditionally used other solutions. All of the markets we serve are subject to severe competitive pressures, rapid technological change, and product obsolescence, which increase our inventory and overhead risks, resulting in increased costs. 19 Table of Contents We face intense competition that could result in our losing or failing to gain market share and suffering reduced revenue. We serve intensely competitive markets that are characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change, and competition from major domestic and international companies. This intense competition could result in pricing pressures, lower sales, reduced margins, and lower market share. Depressed economic conditions, a slowdown in the PC market, the emergence of netbooks, the emergence of new products such as tablet or slate devices, rapid changes in the smartphone and feature phone market, and competitive pressures may result in lower demand for our product solutions, pricing pressures, and reduced unit margins. Any movement away from high-quality, custom designed, feature-rich human interface solutions to lower priced alternatives would adversely affect our business. Some of our competitors, particularly in the markets for digital lifestyle products and other electronic devices, have greater market recognition, larger customer bases, and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources than we possess and that afford them competitive advantages. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of products, to negotiate lower prices for raw materials and components, to deliver competitive products at lower prices, and to introduce new product solutions and respond to customer requirements more quickly than we can. Our competitive position could suffer if one or more of our customers determine not to utilize our custom engineered, total solutions approach and instead decide to design and manufacture their own interfaces, to contract with our competitors, or to use alternative technologies. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, both within and outside our control. These factors include the following: • our success in designing and introducing new human interface solutions, including those implementing new technologies; • our ability to predict the evolving needs of our customers and to assist them in incorporating our technologies into their new products; • our ability to meet our customers’ requirements for low power consumption, ease of use, reliability, durability, and small form factor; • our ability to meet our customers’ price and performance requirements; • the quality of our customer service and support; • the rate at which customers incorporate our human interface solutions into their own products; • product or technology introductions by our competitors; and • foreign currency fluctuations, which may cause a foreign competitor’s products to be priced significantly lower than our product solutions. If we do not keep pace with technological innovations, our products may not be competitive and our revenue and operating results may suffer. We operate in rapidly changing markets. Technological advances, the introduction of new products, and new design techniques could adversely affect our business unless we are able to adapt to the changing conditions. Technological advances could render our solutions less competitive or obsolete, and we may not be able to respond effectively to the technological requirements of evolving markets. As a result, we will be required to expend substantial funds for and commit significant resources to: • continue research and development activities on existing and potential human interface solutions, • hire additional engineering and other technical personnel, and • purchase advanced design tools and test equipment. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to develop and utilize new technologies that address the needs of our customers, or our competitors or customers do so more effectively than we do. 20 Table of Contents Our efforts to develop new technologies may not result in commercial success, which could cause a decline in our revenue and could harm our business. Our research and development efforts with respect to new technologies may not result in customer or market acceptance. Some or all of those technologies may not successfully make the transition from the research and development lab to cost-effective production as a result of technology problems, competitive cost issues, yield problems, and other factors. Even when we successfully complete a research and development effort with respect to a particular technology, our customers may decide not to introduce or may terminate products utilizing the technology for a variety of reasons, including the following: • difficulties with other suppliers of components for the products, • superior technologies developed by our competitors and unfavorable comparisons of our solutions with these technologies, • price considerations, and • lack of anticipated or actual market demand for the products. The nature of our business requires us to make continuing investments for new technologies. Significant expenses relating to one or more new technologies that ultimately prove to be unsuccessful for any reason could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any investments or acquisitions made to enhance our technologies may prove to be unsuccessful. If our efforts are unsuccessful, our business could be harmed. We may not be able to enhance our existing product solutions and develop new product solutions in a timely manner. Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on our ability to continue to provide new human interface solutions that compare favorably with alternative solutions on the basis of time to introduction, cost, performance, and end user preferences. Our success in maintaining existing and attracting new customers and developing new business depends on various factors, including the following: • innovative development of new solutions for customer products, • utilization of advances in technology, • maintenance of quality standards, • performance advantages, • efficient and cost-effective solutions, and • timely completion of the design and introduction of new human interface solutions. Our OneTouch product offering enables our customers to access our technologies to develop their own human interface designs for capacitive buttons and scrolling applications for products such as mobile smartphones and feature phones, portable digital music and video players, and notebook peripherals. OneTouch may not enable us to achieve our goal of increasing our business with existing customers or attracting new customers. In addition, OneTouch could reduce demand for our custom-designed human interface solutions. Our inability to enhance our existing product solutions and develop new product solutions on a timely basis could harm our operating results and impede our growth. 21 Table of Contents A technologically new human interface solution that achieves significant market share could harm our business. Our human interface solutions are designed to integrate touch, handwriting, and vision capabilities. New computing and communications devices could be developed that call for a different interface solution. Existing devices also could be modified to allow for a different interface solution. Our business could be harmed if our products become noncompetitive as a result of a technological breakthrough that allows a new interface solution to displace our solutions and achieve significant market acceptance. International sales and manufacturing risks could adversely affect our operating results. Our manufacturing and assembly operations are primarily conducted in China, Taiwan, and Thailand by manufacturing contractors. We have sales and logistics operations in Hong Kong, and sales and engineering design support operations in China, Japan, Korea, Switzerland, and Taiwan. These international operations expose us to various economic, political, and other risks that could adversely affect our operations and operating results, including the following: • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing a multi-national organization, • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, • differing labor regulations, • potentially adverse tax consequences, • tariffs and duties and other trade barrier restrictions, • possible employee turnover or labor unrest, • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, • the burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws, • potentially reduced protection for intellectual property rights, and • political or economic instability in certain parts of the world. The risks associated with international operations could negatively affect our operating results. Our business may suffer if international trade is hindered, disrupted, or economically disadvantaged. Political and economic conditions abroad may adversely affect the foreign production and sale of our products. Protectionist trade legislation in either the United States or foreign countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export or import compliance laws, or other trade policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell human interface solutions in foreign markets and to obtain materials or equipment from foreign suppliers. Changes in policies by the U.S. or foreign governments resulting in, among other things, higher taxation, currency conversion limitations, restrictions on the transfer of funds, or the expropriation of private enterprises also could have a material adverse effect on us. Any actions by countries in which we conduct business to reverse policies that encourage foreign investment or foreign trade also could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, U.S. trade policies, such as “most favored nation” status and trade preferences for certain Asian nations, could affect the attractiveness of our services to our U.S. customers and adversely impact our operating results. 22 Table of Contents Our operating results could be adversely affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies. We transact business predominantly in U.S. dollars and bill and collect our sales in U.S. dollars. A weakening of the dollar could cause our overseas vendors to require renegotiation of either the prices or currency we pay for their goods and services. In the future, customers may negotiate pricing and make payments in non-U.S. currencies. For fiscal 2010, approximately 6% of our costs were denominated in non-U.S. currencies, including Canadian dollars, Hong Kong dollars, British pounds, Taiwan dollars, Japanese yen, Korean won, Chinese yuan, and Swiss francs. If our overseas vendors or customers require us to transact business in non-U.S. currencies, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our cost of goods, operating expenses, and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. In addition, currency devaluation can result in a loss to us if we hold deposits of that currency. Hedging foreign currencies can be difficult, especially if the currency is not freely traded. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results. We currently do not hedge any foreign currencies. A majority of our contract manufacturers are located in China, Taiwan, and Thailand, and most of our customers are located in Asia, increasing the risk that a natural disaster, labor strike, war, or political unrest in those countries or that region would disrupt our operations. A majority of our contract manufacturers are located in China, Taiwan, and Thailand, and most of our customers are located in Asia. Events outside of our control, such as earthquakes, fires, floods, or other natural disasters, or political unrest, war, labor strikes, or work stoppages in these countries, would disrupt their operations, which would impact our business. The risk of earthquakes in Taiwan is significant because of its proximity to major earthquake fault lines. An earthquake could cause significant delays in shipments of our product solutions until we are able to shift our outsourced operations. Further, a variety of political factors, such as political unrest in Thailand or political tension between North Korea and South Korea, could disrupt our operations and our ability to meet our customers’ production schedules. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to obtain alternative capacity. Failure to secure alternative capacity could cause a delay in the shipment of our product solutions, which would cause our revenue to fluctuate or decline. Variability of customer requirements resulting in cancellations, reductions, or delays may adversely affect our operating results. We must provide increasingly rapid product turnaround and respond to ever-shorter lead times. A variety of conditions, both specific to individual customers and generally affecting the demand for OEMs’ products, may cause customers to cancel, reduce, or delay orders. Cancellations, reductions, or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers may adversely affect our revenue and could require us to repurchase inventory from our contract manufacturers, which could adversely affect our costs. On occasion, customers require rapid increases in production, which can strain our resources and reduce our margins. Although we have been able to obtain increased production capacity from our third-party manufacturers, we may be unable to do so at any given time to meet our customers’ demands if their demands exceed anticipated levels. Our operating results may experience significant fluctuations that could result in a decline in the price of our stock. In addition to the variability resulting from the short-term nature of our customers’ commitments, other factors contribute to significant periodic and seasonal quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations. These factors include the following: • the cyclicality of the markets we serve; • the timing and size of orders; • order push-outs or cancellations; • the volume of orders relative to our ability to deliver; 23 Table of Contents • product introductions and market acceptance of new products or new generations of products; • evolution in the life cycles of our customers’ products; • timing of expenses in anticipation of future orders; • changes in product mix; • availability of manufacturing and assembly services; • availability of necessary components and materials; • changes in cost and availability of labor and components; • the expanded use of high-cost, third-party components in the products we sell; • timely delivery of product solutions to customers; • pricing, performance, and availability of competitive products; • introduction of new technologies into the markets we serve; • emergence of new competitors; • pressures on selling prices; • the absolute and relative levels of corporate enterprise and consumer notebook purchases; • our success in serving new markets; and • changes in economic conditions. Accordingly, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons as an indicator of our future performance. Negative or unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results may result in a decline in the price of our stock. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our infrastructure, management, and resources could be strained, our ability to effectively manage our business could be diminished, and our operating results could suffer. The failure to manage our growth effectively could strain our resources, which would impede our ability to increase revenue. We have increased the number of our human interface solutions and plan to expand further the number and diversity of our solutions and their use in the future. Our ability to manage our planned diversification and growth effectively will require us to: • successfully hire, train, retain, and motivate additional employees, including employees outside the United States; • efficiently plan and expand our facilities to meet increased headcount requirements; • enhance our global operational, financial, and management infrastructure; and • expand our development and production capacity. In connection with the expansion and diversification of our product and customer base, we are increasing our personnel and making other expenditures to meet demand for our expanding product offerings, including offerings in the notebook computer and digital lifestyle markets. Increases in the demand for our products will require further expansion of our traditional notebook computer business as well as an increasing presence in the digital lifestyle product market, including mobile smartphones and feature phones and portable digital music and video players. To date, our sales of human interface solutions for portable digital music and video players and mobile smartphones and feature phones have varied significantly from quarter to quarter. Risks are further increased because customers do not commit to firm production schedules for more than a short time in advance. Any increase in expenses or investments in infrastructure and facilities in anticipation of future orders that do not materialize would adversely affect our profitability. Our customers also may require rapid increases in design and production services that place an excessive short-term burden on our resources and the resources of our third-party manufacturers. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, our business and results of operations could suffer. 24 Table of Contents We depend on key personnel who would be difficult to replace, and our business will likely be harmed if we lose their services or cannot hire additional qualified personnel. Our success depends substantially on the efforts and abilities of our senior management and other key personnel. The competition for qualified management and key personnel, especially engineers, is intense. Although we maintain noncompetition and nondisclosure covenants with most of our key personnel and two of our key personnel have a change of control severance agreement, we do not have employment agreements with any of them. The loss of services of one or more of our key employees or the inability to hire, train, and retain key personnel, especially engineers and technical support personnel, and capable sales and customer-support employees outside the United States, could delay the development and sale of our products, disrupt our business, and interfere with our ability to execute our business plan. Our inability to protect our intellectual property could impair our competitive advantage, reduce our revenue, and increase our costs. Our success and ability to compete depend in part on our ability to maintain the proprietary aspects of our technologies and products. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, confidentiality agreements, and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property, but these measures may provide only limited protection. We license from third parties certain technology used in and for our products. These third-party licenses are granted with restrictions, and there can be no assurances that such third-party technology will remain available to us on terms beneficial to us. Our failure to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights or obtain from third parties the right to use necessary technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. Patents may not issue from the patent applications that we have filed or may file in the future. Our issued patents may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, and claims of our patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength, or issued in the proper geographic regions, to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. In addition, certain of our patents will expire within several years. We have not applied for, and do not have, any copyright registration on our technologies or products. We have applied to register certain of our trademarks in the United States and other countries. There can be no assurance that we will obtain registrations of principle or other trademarks in key markets. Failure to obtain registrations could compromise our ability to protect fully our trademarks and brands and could increase the risk of challenge from third parties to our use of our trademarks and brands. We do not consistently rely on written agreements with our customers, suppliers, manufacturers, and other recipients of our technologies and products, and therefore some trade secret protection may be lost and our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights may be limited. Additionally, our customers, suppliers, manufacturers, and other recipients of our technologies and products may seek to use our technologies and products without appropriate limitations. In the past, we did not consistently require our employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality, employment, or proprietary information and invention assignment agreements. Therefore, our former employees and consultants may try to claim some ownership interest in our technologies and products and may use our technologies and products competitively and without appropriate limitations. 25 Table of Contents We may be required to incur substantial expenses and divert management attention and resources in defending intellectual property litigation against us. We may receive notices from third parties that claim our products infringe their rights. From time to time, we receive notice from third parties of the intellectual property rights such parties have obtained. We cannot be certain that our technologies and products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other proprietary rights of others. Any future claims, with or without merit, could result in significant litigation costs and diversion of resources, including the attention of management, and could require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. There can be no assurance that such licenses could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or that the terms of any offered licenses would be acceptable to us. If forced to cease using such technology, there can be no assurance that we would be able to develop or obtain alternate technology. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing, using, or selling certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, parties making such claims could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to make, use, or sell our products in the United States or abroad. Such a judgment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, we are obligated under certain agreements to indemnify the other party in connection with infringement by us of the proprietary rights of third parties. In the event we are required to indemnify parties under these agreements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may incur substantial expenses and divert management resources in prosecuting others for their unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights. The markets in which we compete are characterized by frequent litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Other companies, including our competitors, may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technologies, duplicate our technologies, or design around our patents and may have or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that would prevent, limit, or interfere with our ability to make, use, or sell our products. Effective intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries in which we operate, such as China and Taiwan. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise use aspects of our technologies and products that we regard as proprietary. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad will be adequate or that competitors will not independently develop similar technologies. If our intellectual property protection is insufficient to protect our intellectual property rights, we could face increased competition in the market for our technologies and products. Should any of our competitors file patent applications or obtain patents that claim inventions also claimed by us, we may choose to participate in an interference proceeding to determine the right to a patent for these inventions because our business would be harmed if we fail to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights. Even if the outcome is favorable, this proceeding could result in substantial cost to us and disrupt our business. In the future, we also may need to file lawsuits to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we become subject to product returns and product liability claims resulting from defects in our products, we may fail to achieve market acceptance of our products and our business could be harmed. We develop complex products in an evolving marketplace and generally warrant our products for a period of 12 months from the date of sale. Despite testing by us and our customers, defects may be found in existing or new products. Manufacturing errors or product defects could result in a delay in recognition or loss of revenue, loss of market share, or failure to achieve market acceptance. Additionally, defects could result in financial or other damages to our customers; cause us to incur significant warranty, support, and repair costs; and divert the attention of our engineering personnel from key product development efforts. In such circumstances, our customers could also seek and obtain damages from us for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly to defend. The occurrence of such problems would likely harm our business. Potential strategic alliances may not achieve their objectives, and the failure to do so could impede our growth. We anticipate that we will enter into strategic alliances. Among other matters, we continually explore strategic alliances designed to enhance or complement our technology or to work in conjunction with our technology; to provide necessary know-how, components, or supplies; and to develop, introduce, and distribute products utilizing our technology. Any strategic alliances may not achieve their intended objectives, and parties to our strategic alliances may not perform as contemplated. The failure of these alliances may impede our ability to introduce new products and enter new markets. 26 Table of Contents Any acquisitions that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, and harm our operating results. We expect to pursue opportunities to acquire other businesses and technologies in order to complement our current human interface solutions, expand the breadth of our markets, enhance our technical capabilities, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. While we have no current definitive agreements underway, we may acquire businesses, products, or technologies in the future. If we make any future acquisitions, we could issue stock that would dilute existing stockholders’ percentage ownership, incur substantial debt, assume contingent liabilities, or experience higher operating expenses. Our experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies is limited. Potential acquisitions also involve numerous risks, including the following: • the potential disruption of our core businesses; • the potential strain on our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures; • potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; • diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses; • problems assimilating the purchased operations, technologies, or products; • risks associated with entering markets and businesses in which we have little or no prior experience; • failure of acquired businesses to achieve expected results; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • failure to retain key customers, suppliers, or personnel of acquired businesses; • the risk of impairment charges related to potential write-downs of acquired assets; and • creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies, and information systems. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in overcoming problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions, and our inability to do so could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business. The valuation of our technology conducted in connection with our international operating structure may be challenged, which could result in additional taxes, interest, and penalties. In fiscal 2005, we implemented an international operating structure. Under this structure, generally, one of our affiliates licensed from us certain rights to the pre-existing and in-process technology associated with our products for exploitation in all geographic markets except the U.S., Japanese, and Korean markets, which we refer to as “ROW markets.” Our affiliate also acquired ownership of all future economic rights to product sales in ROW markets by entering into an agreement to license certain intangibles and a cost-sharing agreement under which we and our affiliate will share research and development costs in accordance with certain tax rules and regulations. We believe this structure appropriately reflects where our profits are generated and may result in future tax advantages to us, but there can be no assurances that this will be the case. 27 Table of Contents Repatriation of our foreign earnings to the United States or changes in tax laws may adversely affect our future reported tax rates and financial results or the way we conduct our business. Changes in tax laws may adversely affect our future reported tax rates and financial results or the way we conduct our business. We consider the undistributed operating earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries of approximately $220 million as of the end of fiscal 2010, to be indefinitely invested outside the United States and have not provided for U.S. federal and state income taxes that may result from future remittances of those undistributed operating earnings. Proposals to reform U.S. tax laws, including proposals that could reduce or eliminate the deferral of U.S. income tax on our foreign subsidiaries’ undistributed earnings, could require those earnings to be taxed at the U.S. federal income tax rate. Currently our investments in auction rate securities, or ARS, are not liquid, and we may lose some or all of our principal invested or may be required to further reduce the carrying value if the issuers are not able to meet their payment obligations or if we sell our ARS investments before they recover. We ended fiscal 2010 with $40.7 million invested in ARS for which the auctions have failed and our investments are not liquid. The carrying value of these investments was $28.0 million, reflecting $16.3 million of other-than-temporary impairment, partially offset by $3.6 million of temporary recovery. If the issuers are not able to meet their payment obligations or if we sell our ARS investments before they recover, we may lose some or all of the principal invested or may be required to further reduce the carrying value. This would adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Legislation affecting the markets in which we participate could adversely affect our ability to implement our growth strategies. Our ability to expand our business may be adversely impacted by future laws or regulations. Our customers’ products may be subject to laws relating to environmental regulations, communications, encryption technology, electronic commerce, e-signatures, governmental control over content, and privacy. Any of these laws could be expensive to comply with, and the marketability of our products could be adversely affected. We must finance the growth of our business and the development of new products, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. To remain competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development, marketing, and business development. Our failure to increase sufficiently our net revenue to offset these increased costs would adversely affect our operating results. From time to time, we may seek additional equity or debt financing to provide for funds required to expand our business. We cannot predict the timing or amount of any such requirements at this time. If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to expand our business or to develop new business at the rate desired and our operating results may suffer. Debt financing increases expenses and must be repaid regardless of operating results. Equity financing could result in additional dilution to existing stockholders. We consider the undistributed operating earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the United States. If we were to distribute a portion of those earnings to our U.S. parent company to finance our future growth, we would be required to pay U.S. federal and state taxes on the distribution and further may be required to accrue U.S. and state taxes on the remaining undistributed operating earnings, which would adversely affect our tax rate and financial results. Our target markets are cyclical and may result in fluctuations in our operating results. The PC and electronics industries have experienced significant economic downturns at various times. These downturns are characterized by diminished product demand, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, and production overcapacity. In addition, the PC and electronics industries are cyclical in nature. We seek to reduce our exposure to industry downturns and cyclicality by providing design and production services for leading companies in rapidly expanding industry segments. We may, however, experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results because of general industry conditions or events occurring in the general economy. 28 Table of Contents Continuing uncertainty of the U.S. and global economy may have serious implications for the growth and stability of our business and may negatively affect our stock price. The revenue growth and profitability of our business depends significantly on the overall demand in the notebook computer market and in the markets for digital lifestyle products and other electronic devices, including mobile smartphones and feature phones. Softening demand in these markets caused by ongoing economic uncertainty may result in decreased revenue or earnings levels or growth rates. The U.S. and global economy has been historically cyclical, and market conditions continue to be challenging, which has resulted in individuals and companies delaying or reducing expenditures. Further delays or reductions in spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products, and consequently on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, and stock price. We expect to incur additional expenses in complying with corporate governance and public disclosure requirements. Changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including SEC regulations, and Nasdaq Global Select Market rules, create uncertainty and increased expenses for companies such as ours. New or changed laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations, and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. In addition, it may become more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members, which could harm our business. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations, and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. The accounting requirements for income taxes on certain of our share-based awards will subject our future quarterly and annual effective tax rates to greater volatility and, consequently, our ability to estimate reasonably our future quarterly and annual effective tax rates is greatly diminished. We recognize tax benefit upon expensing nonqualified stock options and deferred stock units issued under our share-based compensation plans. However, under current accounting standards, we cannot recognize tax benefit concurrent with expensing incentive stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares (qualified stock options) issued under our share-based compensation plans. For qualified stock options that vested after our adoption of the applicable accounting standards, we recognize the tax benefit only in the period when disqualifying dispositions of the underlying stock occur and, for qualified stock options that vested prior to our adoption of the applicable accounting standards, the tax benefit is recorded directly to additional paid-in capital. Accordingly, because we cannot recognize the tax benefit for share-based compensation expense associated with qualified stock options until the occurrence of future disqualifying dispositions of the underlying stock and such disqualified dispositions may happen in periods when our stock price substantially increases, and because a portion of that tax benefit may be directly recorded to additional paid-in capital, our future quarterly and annual effective tax rates will be subject to greater volatility and, consequently, our ability to estimate reasonably our future quarterly and annual effective tax rates is greatly diminished. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse unexpected fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices could have a significant effect on our reported results of operations. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred in the past and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued specific accounting standards requiring us to recognize all share-based payments to employees, including grants of stock options, restricted stock, and deferred stock units, in the financial statements based on their grant date fair value eliminating the pro forma footnote disclosures that were allowed as an alternative to financial statement recognition. This requirement, while not affecting our cash flow, has adversely affected our reported financial results and impaired our ability to provide guidance on our future reported financial results as a result of the variability of the factors used to establish the grant date fair value of stock options and the accounting for income taxes thereon. 29 Table of Contents Our charter documents and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, and discourage a takeover. Our certificate of incorporation and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying attempts by others to obtain control of our company, even when these attempts may be in the best interests of our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock. Delaware law also imposes conditions on certain business combination transactions with “interested stockholders.” Our certificate of incorporation divides our Board of Directors into three classes, with one class to stand for election each year for a three-year term after the election. The classification of directors tends to discourage a third party from initiating a proxy solicitation or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company and may maintain the incumbency of our Board of Directors, as this structure generally increases the difficulty of, or may delay, replacing a majority of directors. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to fill vacancies or newly created directorships. A majority of the directors then in office may elect a successor to fill any vacancies or newly created directorships. Our stockholders’ rights plan may adversely affect existing stockholders. Our stockholders’ rights plan also may have the effect of deterring, delaying, or preventing a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. In general, stock purchase rights issued under the rights plan become exercisable when a person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock or a tender offer or exchange offer of 15% or more of our common stock is announced or commenced. After any such event, our other stockholders may purchase additional shares of our common stock at 50% of the then-current market price. The rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors. The rights should not interfere with any merger or other business combination approved by our board of directors as the rights may be redeemed by us at $0.01 per stock purchase right at any time before any person or group acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. The rights expire in August 2012. Sales of large numbers of shares could adversely affect the price of our common stock. As of August 6, 2010, all of the 34,465,254 shares of our common stock outstanding were eligible for resale in the public markets. Of these shares, 9,102,206 shares held by affiliates were eligible for resale in the public markets subject to compliance with the volume and manner of sale rules of Rules 144 or 701 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and the balance of the shares were eligible for resale in the public markets as unrestricted shares. In general, under Rule 144 as currently in effect, any person (or persons whose shares are aggregated for purposes of Rule 144) who is deemed an affiliate of our company and beneficially owns restricted securities with respect to which at least six months has elapsed since the later of the date the shares were acquired from us, or from an affiliate of ours, is entitled to sell within any three-month period a number of shares that does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock or the average weekly trading volume in common stock during the four calendar weeks preceding such sale. Sales by affiliates under Rule 144 also are subject to certain manner-of-sale provisions and notice requirements and to the availability of current public information about us. Rule 701, as currently in effect, permits our employees, officers, directors, and consultants who purchase shares pursuant to a written compensatory plan or contract to resell these shares in reliance upon Rule 144, but without compliance with specific restrictions. Rule 701 provides that affiliates may sell their Rule 701 shares under Rule 144 without complying with the holding period requirement and non-affiliates may sell their shares in reliance on Rule 144 without complying with the holding period, public information, volume limitation, or notice provisions of Rule 144. A person who is not an affiliate, who has not been an affiliate within three months prior to sale, and who beneficially owns restricted securities with respect to which at least one year has elapsed since the later of the date the shares were acquired from us, or from an affiliate of ours, is entitled to sell such shares under Rule 144 without regard to any of the volume limitations or other requirements described above. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market could adversely affect prevailing market prices. 30 Table of Contents We have registered an aggregate of $100 million of common stock and preferred stock for issuance in connection with acquisitions, which shares generally will be freely tradeable after their issuance under Rule 145 of the Securities Act, unless held by an affiliate of the acquired company, in which case such shares will be subject to the volume and manner of sale restrictions of Rule 144 discussed above. The issuance or subsequent sale of these shares in the public market could adversely affect prevailing market prices. We have registered an aggregate of $250 million of common stock (including the associated rights), preferred stock, debt securities, depositary shares, warrants, purchase contracts, and units (collectively “securities”) for issuance to raise funds for general corporate purposes, which may include the repayment of indebtedness outstanding from time to time, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and repurchases of our common stock or other securities. Securities issued under the shelf registration generally will be freely tradeable after their issuance unless held by an affiliate of our company, in which case such shares will be subject to the volume and manner of sale restrictions of Rule 144. We have registered for offer and sale the shares of common stock that are reserved for issuance pursuant to our outstanding share-based compensation plans. Shares issued in connection with our share-based compensation plans generally will be eligible for sale in the public market, except that affiliates will continue to be subject to volume limitations and other requirements of Rule 144. The issuance or subsequent sale of such shares could depress the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, including the following: • variations in our quarterly results; • the financial guidance we may provide to the public, any changes in such guidance, or our failure to meet such guidance; • changes in financial estimates by industry or securities analysts or our failure to meet such estimates; • various market factors or perceived market factors, including rumors, whether or not correct, involving us, our customers, our suppliers, or our competitors; • announcements of technological innovations by us or by our competitors; • introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • the gain or loss of significant orders; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers, and the economy as a whole; • hedging activities by investors holding positions in our convertible senior subordinated notes; • short positions held by investors; and • general financial market conditions or occurrences. In addition, stocks of technology companies have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to these companies’ operating performance. Public announcements by technology companies concerning, among other things, their performance, accounting practices, or legal problems could cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our actual operating performance. 31 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 