ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following factors, together with all the other information included in this report, in evaluating our company and our business. We currently depend on our human interface solutions for the notebook computer market and digital lifestyle product markets for substantially all of our revenue, and any downturn in sales of these products would adversely affect our business, revenue, operating results, and financial position. We currently depend on our human interface solutions for the notebook computer market and digital lifestyle product markets for substantially all of our revenue, and any downturn in sales of these products would adversely affect our business, revenue, operating results, and financial position. Net revenue for our human interface solutions for our PC and digital lifestyle products, primarily mobile smartphones and feature phones, accounted for approximately 51% and 49%, respectively, of our net revenue for fiscal 2012, 48% and 52%, respectively, of our net revenue for fiscal 2011, and 59% and 41%, respectively, of our net revenue for fiscal 2010. A softening of demand in the notebook portion of the PC market, a reduced level of our participation in the notebook portion of the PC market, or a slowdown of growth in the notebook portion of the PC market because of consumer preferences, the emergence of tablet or slate devices and ultrabooks not including our product solutions, or other factors would cause our business, operating results, and financial position to suffer. Similarly, the lack of market acceptance of our product solutions compared with competitive products in the mobile smartphone and feature phone market or our inability to be a leading supplier of human interface solutions for mobile smartphone and feature phone products would have a negative effect on our business, operating results, and financial position. Net revenue from our human interface solutions for digital lifestyle products has been volatile in the past, and may not increase or be less volatile in the future. Net revenue from our human interface solutions for digital lifestyle products, particularly mobile smartphones and feature phones and portable digital music players, has been volatile in the past. Our net revenue from our human interface solutions for digital lifestyle products may not increase or be less volatile in the future. Net revenue from our human interface solutions for digital lifestyle products was $270.1 million in fiscal 2012, $309.1 million in fiscal 2011, and $209.2 million in fiscal 2010. Our interface business for digital lifestyle products faces many uncertainties, including our success in enhancing our market share in evolving markets dominated by a limited number of OEMs and market acceptance of our product solutions over competitive product solutions. Our inability to address these uncertainties successfully and to be a leading supplier of human interfaces for digital lifestyle products would negatively affect our business. We have transitioned a significant portion of our product solutions for the mobile smartphone and feature phone market in fiscal 2012 from full module solutions to chip or tail solutions, which has resulted in lower revenue. We have transitioned a significant portion of our product solutions for the mobile smartphone and feature phone market from full module solutions to chip or tail solutions, which has resulted in lower revenue. Historically, we provided a significant portion of our mobile smartphone and feature phone customers with a complete touchscreen module, including our proprietary controller ASIC, associated electronics, firmware, software, and systems engineering and design as well as a third-party capacitive sensor and module assembly. As a result of industry factors, many of our customers are moving to either a chip solution in which we offer our proprietary controller ASIC, firmware, software, and systems engineering and design with the customer utilizing third-parties for the associated electronics, sensor, and module assembly or a tail solution in which we offer our proprietary controller ASIC, associated electronics, firmware, software, and systems engineering and design with the customer utilizing third-parties for the sensor and module assembly. During fiscal 2012, our full module solutions for the mobile smartphone and feature phone market declined from approximately 50% of quarterly mobile product revenue in the prior year to approximately 1% of quarterly mobile product revenue. We anticipate that chip solutions will constitute an increased share of mobile product revenue in fiscal 2013 compared with fiscal 2012. Our chip solutions for mobile smartphones and feature phones typically generate lower revenue than our full module solutions. 18 Table of Contents Our historical financial performance is based on net revenue generated from our human interface solutions for the notebook computer market and, more recently, our human interface solutions for digital lifestyle products, and may not be indicative of our future performance. Our historical financial performance is based on net revenue generated from our human interface solutions for the notebook computer market and, more recently, our human interface solutions for digital lifestyle products, particularly mobile smartphones and feature phones. As recently as fiscal 2008, we derived a large majority of our net revenue from the sale of our TouchPad products for notebook computers. In fiscal 2011, net revenue from our human interface solutions for digital lifestyle products exceeded net revenue from our PC product solutions for the first time in our history. In fiscal 2012, net revenue from our human interface solutions for digital lifestyle products decreased and was less than our net revenue from our PC product solutions. We expect a relatively even revenue mix between sales of our human interface solutions for notebook computers and our human interface solutions for mobile smartphones and feature phones. However, we have a more limited operating history in the markets for digital lifestyle products, including mobile smartphones and feature phones, and limited operating history for other products, such as tablets and ultrabooks. In addition, in fiscal 2012 we transitioned our product solutions for the mobile smartphone and feature phone market from full module solutions to chip or tail solutions and anticipate that chip solutions will be the primary solution during fiscal 2013. We cannot assure you that our human interface business for new markets will be successful or that we will be able to continue to generate significant revenue from these markets. Our product solutions may not be successful in new markets despite the fact that these product solutions are capable of enabling people to interact more easily and intuitively with a wide variety of mobile computing, communication, entertainment, and electronic devices in addition to notebook computers and mobile smartphones and feature phones. We are currently targeting the rapidly developing tablet market and the ultrabook portion of the PC market. Our success in these markets will depend primarily on the success in these markets of the products of our OEM customers who utilize our solutions for their products. As a result, we do not know whether our product solutions for the tablet market and the ultrabook portion of the PC market will result in a substantial portion of our revenue on a consistent basis. Our inability to become a leading supplier in the tablet market and the ultrabook portion of the PC market would result in a slower growth rate than we currently anticipate. The failure to succeed in the tablet market and the ultrabook portion of the PC market would result in no return on the substantial investments we have made to date and plan to make in the future to penetrate such markets. Various target markets for our interfaces, such as tablets, ultrabooks, and automotive touchscreens, may develop slower than anticipated or could utilize competing technologies. The markets for certain of these products depend in part upon the continued development and deployment of wireless and other technologies, which may or may not address the needs of users of these products. Our ability to generate significant revenue from new markets will depend on various factors, including the following: • the development and growth of these markets; • the ability of our technologies and product solutions to address the needs of these markets, the price and performance requirements of OEMs, and the preferences of end users; and • our ability to provide OEMs with human interface solutions that provide advantages in terms of size, power consumption, reliability, durability, performance, and value-added features compared with alternative solutions. Many manufacturers of these products have well-established relationships with competitive suppliers. Our ongoing success in these markets will require us to offer better performance alternatives to other solutions at competitive costs. The failure of any of these target markets to develop as we expect, or our failure to serve these markets to a significant extent, will impede our sales growth and could result in substantially reduced earnings. We cannot predict the size or growth rate of these markets or the market share we will achieve in these markets in the future. 19 Table of Contents Market acceptance of our customers’ existing or new products that utilize our human interface solution may decline or may not develop and, as a result, our revenue may decline or may not increase. We do not sell any products to end users. Instead, we design various human interface solutions that our OEM customers incorporate into their products. As a result, our success depends almost entirely upon the widespread market acceptance of our OEM customers’ products. We do not control or influence the manufacture, promotion, distribution, or pricing of the products that incorporate our human interface solutions. Instead, we depend on our customers to manufacture and distribute products incorporating our human interface solutions and to generate consumer demand through marketing and promotional activities. Even if our technologies successfully meet our customers’ price and performance goals, our sales would decline or fail to develop if our customers do not achieve commercial success in selling their products that incorporate our human interface solutions. Competitive advances by OEMs in the PC or digital lifestyle product markets that do not utilize our human interface solutions broadly in their product offerings at the expense of our OEM customers could result in lost sales opportunities. Within the digital lifestyle product markets, the mobile smartphone market has become an important factor in our operating results. Any failure to expand our presence in this market, a significant slowdown in the use of our human interface solutions by our customers in this market, the reduced demand for our customers’ products in this market, or a slowdown of growth in this market would adversely affect our revenue. If we fail to maintain and build relationships with our customers and do not continue to satisfy our customers, we may lose future sales and our revenue may stagnate or decline. Because our success depends on the widespread market acceptance of our OEM customers’ products, we must continue to maintain our relationships with the leading notebook computer OEMs and expand our relationships with mobile smartphone and feature phone and tablet OEMs. In addition, we must identify areas of significant growth potential in other markets, establish relationships with OEMs in those markets, and assist those OEMs in developing products that use our interface product solutions. Our failure to identify potential growth opportunities, particularly in the mobile smartphone and feature phone market, the tablet market, and the ultrabook portion of the PC market, or establish and maintain relationships with OEMs in those markets, would prevent our business from growing in those markets. Our ability to meet the expectations of our customers requires us to provide innovative human interface solutions for customers on a timely and cost-effective basis and to maintain customer satisfaction with our human interface solutions. We must match our design and production capacity with customer demand, maintain satisfactory delivery schedules, and meet performance goals. If we are unable to achieve these goals for any reason, our customers could reduce their purchases from us and our sales would decline or fail to develop. Our customer relationships also can be affected by factors affecting our customers that are unrelated to our performance. These factors can include a myriad of situations, including business reversals of customers, determinations by customers to change their product mix or abandon business segments, or mergers, consolidations, or acquisitions involving our customers. The loss of revenue from one or more large customers could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. In fiscal 2012, one customer, TPK, accounted for 12% of our net revenue. In fiscal 2011, no customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue. Additionally, receivables from Compal and Wistron consisted of 14% and 12% of accounts receivable, respectively, at the end of fiscal 2012. Receivables from Compal were 12% of accounts receivable at the end of fiscal 2011. There were no other customers who represented more than 10% of our accounts receivable at the end of fiscal 2012 or 2011. BYD, Compal, Inventec, LGIT, Pegatron, Quanta, TPK, Wintek, and Wistron are some of the contract manufacturers that serve our OEM customers. Any material delay, cancellation, or reduction of orders from any one or more of these contract manufacturers or the OEMs they serve could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. The adverse effect would be more substantial if our other customers do not increase their orders or if we are unsuccessful in generating orders for human interface solutions from new customers. Many of these contract manufacturers sell to the same OEMs, and therefore our concentration with certain OEMs may be higher than with any individual contract manufacturer. Concentration in our customer base may make fluctuations in revenue and earnings more severe and make business planning more difficult. 20 Table of Contents We rely on others for our production and any interruptions of these arrangements could disrupt our ability to fill our customers’ orders. We utilize contract manufacturers for all of our production requirements. The majority of our manufacturing is conducted in China, Taiwan, and Thailand by contract manufacturers that also perform services for numerous other companies. We do not have a guaranteed level of production capacity with any of our contract manufacturers. Qualifying new contract manufacturers, and specifically semiconductor foundries, is time consuming and might result in unforeseen manufacturing and operations problems. The loss of our relationships with our contract manufacturers or assemblers or their inability to conduct their manufacturing and assembly services for us as anticipated in terms of capacity, cost, quality, and timeliness could adversely affect our ability to fill customer orders in accordance with required delivery, quality, and performance requirements. If this were to occur, the resulting decline in revenue would harm our business. We depend on third parties to maintain satisfactory manufacturing yields and delivery schedules, and their inability to do so could increase our costs, disrupt our supply chain, and result in our inability to deliver our products, which would adversely affect our operating results. We depend on our contract manufacturers and semiconductor fabricators to maintain high levels of productivity and satisfactory delivery schedules at manufacturing and assembly facilities located primarily in China, Taiwan, and Thailand. We provide our contract manufacturers with six-month rolling forecasts of our production requirements. We do not, however, have long-term agreements with any of our contract manufacturers that guarantee production capacity, prices, lead times, or delivery schedules. Our contract manufacturers serve other customers, a number of which have greater production requirements than we do. As a result, our contract manufacturers could determine to prioritize production capacity for other customers or reduce or eliminate deliveries to us on short notice. At times, we have experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields and lengthening of delivery schedules. Lower than expected manufacturing yields could increase our costs or disrupt our supplies. We may encounter lower manufacturing yields and longer delivery schedules in commencing volume production of new products that we introduce. Any of these problems could result in our inability to deliver our product solutions in a timely manner and adversely affect our operating results. Shortages of components and materials may delay or reduce our sales and increase our costs, thereby harming our operating results. The inability to obtain sufficient quantities of components and other materials necessary for the production of our products could result in reduced or delayed sales or lost orders. Any delay in or loss of sales could adversely impact our operating results. Many of the materials used in the production of our products are available only from a limited number of foreign suppliers, particularly suppliers located in Asia. In most cases, neither we nor our contract manufacturers have long-term supply contracts with these suppliers. As a result, we are subject to economic instability in these Asian countries as well as to increased costs, supply interruptions, and difficulties in obtaining materials. Our customers also may encounter difficulties or increased costs in obtaining the materials necessary to produce their products into which our product solutions are incorporated. From time to time, materials and components used in our product solutions or in other aspects of our customers’ products have been subject to allocation because of shortages of these materials and components. Future shortages of materials and components, including potential supply constraints of silicon, could cause delayed shipments, customer dissatisfaction, and lower revenue. We are subject to lengthy development periods and product acceptance cycles, which can result in development and engineering costs without any future revenue. We provide human interface solutions that are incorporated by OEMs into the products they sell. OEMs make the determination during their product development programs whether to incorporate our human interface solutions or pursue other alternatives. This process requires us to make significant investments of time and resources in the design of human interface solutions well before our customers introduce their products incorporating these interfaces and before we can be sure that we will generate any significant sales to our customers or even recover our investment. During a customer’s entire product development process, we face the risk that our interfaces will fail to meet our customer’s technical, performance, or cost requirements or that our products will be replaced by competitive products or alternative technological solutions. Even if we complete our design process in a manner satisfactory to our customer, the customer may delay or terminate its product development efforts. The occurrence of any of these events could cause sales to not materialize, to be deferred, or to be cancelled, which would adversely affect our operating results. 21 Table of Contents We do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers, and their ability to cancel, reduce, or delay orders could reduce our revenue and increase our costs. Our customers do not provide us with firm, long-term volume purchase commitments, but instead issue purchase orders. As a result, customers can cancel purchase orders or reduce or delay orders at any time. The cancellation, delay, or reduction of customer purchase orders could result in reduced revenue, excess inventory, and unabsorbed overhead. We have an established presence in the notebook computer market and have only recently established a presence in the digital lifestyle product markets. Our success in the digital lifestyle product markets, including those for mobile smartphones and feature phones, the tablet market, and the ultrabook portion of the PC market, require us to establish the value added by our products to OEMs, including those that have traditionally used other solutions. All of the markets we serve are subject to severe competitive pressures, rapid technological change, and product obsolescence, which increase our inventory and overhead risks, resulting in increased costs. We face intense competition that could result in our losing or failing to gain market share and suffering reduced revenue. We serve intensely competitive markets that are characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change, and competition from major domestic and international companies. This intense competition could result in pricing pressures, lower sales, reduced margins, and lower market share. Depressed economic conditions, a slowdown in the PC market, the emergence of new products, such as tablet or slate devices and ultrabooks not including our product solutions, rapid changes in the mobile smartphone and feature phone market, and competitive pressures may result in lower demand for our product solutions, pricing pressures, and reduced unit margins. Any movement away from high-quality, custom designed, feature-rich human interface solutions to lower priced alternatives would adversely affect our business. Some of our competitors, particularly in the markets for digital lifestyle products and other electronic devices, have greater market recognition, larger customer bases, and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources than we possess and that afford them competitive advantages. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of products, to negotiate lower prices for raw materials and components, to deliver competitive products at lower prices, and to introduce new product solutions and respond to customer requirements more quickly than we can. Our competitive position could suffer if one or more of our customers determine not to utilize our custom engineered, total solutions approach and instead decide to design and manufacture their own interfaces, to contract with our competitors, or to use alternative technologies. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, both within and outside our control. These factors include the following: • our success in designing and introducing new human interface solutions, including those implementing new technologies; • our ability to predict the evolving needs of our customers and to assist them in incorporating our technologies into their new products; • our ability to meet our customers’ requirements for low power consumption, ease of use, reliability, durability, and small form factor; • our ability to meet our customers’ price and performance requirements; • the quality of our customer service and support; • the rate at which customers incorporate our human interface solutions into their own products; • product or technology introductions by our competitors; and • foreign currency fluctuations, which may cause a foreign competitor’s products to be priced significantly lower than our product solutions. 22 Table of Contents If we do not keep pace with technological innovations, our products may not be competitive and our revenue and operating results may suffer. We operate in rapidly changing markets. Technological advances, the introduction of new products, and new design techniques could adversely affect our business unless we are able to adapt to the changing conditions. Technological advances could render our solutions less competitive or obsolete, and we may not be able to respond effectively to the technological requirements of evolving markets. As a result, we will be required to expend substantial funds for and commit significant resources to: • continue research and development activities on existing and potential human interface solutions, • hire additional engineering and other technical personnel, and • purchase advanced design tools and test equipment. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to develop and utilize new technologies that address the needs of our customers, or our competitors or customers do so more effectively than we do. Our efforts to develop new technologies may not result in commercial success, which could cause a decline in our revenue and could harm our business. Our research and development efforts with respect to new technologies may not result in customer or market acceptance. Some or all of those technologies may not successfully make the transition from the research and development stage to cost-effective production as a result of technology problems, competitive cost issues, yield problems, and other factors. Even when we successfully complete a research and development effort with respect to a particular technology, our customers may decide not to introduce or may terminate products utilizing the technology for a variety of reasons, including the following: • difficulties with other suppliers of components for the products, • superior technologies developed by our competitors and unfavorable comparisons of our solutions with these technologies, • price considerations, and • lack of anticipated or actual market demand for the products. The nature of our business requires us to make continuing investments for new technologies. Significant expenses relating to one or more new technologies that ultimately prove to be unsuccessful for any reason could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any investments or acquisitions made to enhance our technologies may prove to be unsuccessful. If our efforts are unsuccessful, our business could be harmed. 23 Table of Contents We may not be able to enhance our existing product solutions and develop new product solutions in a timely manner. Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on our ability to continue to provide new human interface solutions that compare favorably with alternative solutions on the basis of time to introduction, cost, performance, and end user preferences. Our success in maintaining existing and attracting new customers and developing new business depends on various factors, including the following: • innovative development of new solutions for customer products, • utilization of advances in technology, • maintenance of quality standards, • performance advantages, • efficient and cost-effective solutions, and • timely completion of the design and introduction of new human interface solutions. Our inability to enhance our existing product solutions and develop new product solutions on a timely basis could harm our operating results and impede our growth. A technologically new human interface solution that achieves significant market share could harm our business. Our human interface solutions are designed to integrate touch, handwriting, and vision capabilities. New computing and communications devices could be developed that call for a different interface solution. Existing devices also could be modified to allow for a different interface solution. Our business could be harmed if our products become noncompetitive as a result of a technological breakthrough that allows a new interface solution to displace our solutions and achieve significant market acceptance. International sales and manufacturing risks could adversely affect our operating results. Our manufacturing and assembly operations are primarily conducted in China, Taiwan, and Thailand by contract manufacturers and semiconductor fabricators. We have sales and logistics operations in Hong Kong, and sales and engineering design support operations in China, Japan, Korea, Switzerland, and Taiwan. These international operations expose us to various economic, political, and other risks that could adversely affect our operations and operating results, including the following: • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing a multi-national organization, • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, • differing labor regulations, • potentially adverse tax consequences, • tariffs and duties and other trade barrier restrictions, • possible employee turnover or labor unrest, • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, • the burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws, • the volatility of currency exchange rates, • potentially reduced protection for intellectual property rights, and • political or economic instability in certain parts of the world. The risks associated with international operations could negatively affect our operating results. Our business may suffer if international trade is hindered, disrupted, or economically disadvantaged. Political and economic conditions abroad may adversely affect the foreign production and sale of our products. Protectionist trade legislation in either the United States or foreign countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export or import compliance laws, or other trade policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell human interface solutions in foreign markets and to obtain materials or equipment from foreign suppliers. 24 Table of Contents Changes in policies by the U.S. or foreign governments resulting in, among other things, higher taxation, currency conversion limitations, restrictions on the transfer of funds, or the expropriation of private enterprises also could have a material adverse effect on us. Any actions by countries in which we conduct business to reverse policies that encourage foreign investment or foreign trade also could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, U.S. trade policies, such as “most favored nation” status and trade preferences for certain Asian nations, could affect the attractiveness of our services to our U.S. customers and adversely impact our operating results. Our operating results could be adversely affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies. We transact business predominantly in U.S. dollars and bill and collect our sales in U.S. dollars. A weakening of the dollar could cause our overseas vendors to require renegotiation of either the prices or currency we pay for their goods and services. In the future, customers may negotiate pricing and make payments in non-U.S. currencies. For fiscal 2012, approximately 9% of our costs were denominated in non-U.S. currencies, including Canadian dollars, Hong Kong dollars, British pounds, Taiwan dollars, Japanese yen, Korean won, Chinese yuan, and Swiss francs. If our overseas vendors or customers require us to transact business in non-U.S. currencies, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our cost of goods, operating expenses, and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. In addition, currency devaluation can result in a loss to us if we hold deposits of that currency. Hedging foreign currencies can be difficult, especially if the currency is not freely traded. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results. We currently do not hedge any foreign currencies. A majority of our contract manufacturers and semiconductor fabricators are located in China, Taiwan, and Thailand, and most of our customers are located in Asia, increasing the risk that a natural disaster, labor strike, war, or political unrest in those countries or that region would disrupt our operations. A majority of our contract manufacturers and semiconductor fabricators are located in China, Taiwan, and Thailand, and most of our customers are located in Asia. Events outside of our control, such as earthquakes, fires, floods, or other natural disasters, or political unrest, war, labor strikes, or work stoppages in these countries, would disrupt their operations, which would impact our business. The risk of earthquakes and tsunamis in the Pacific Rim, including Japan (such as the March 2011 earthquake and tsunamis) and Taiwan is significant because of the proximity to major earthquake fault lines. An earthquake or tsunami could cause significant delays in shipments of our product solutions until we are able to shift our outsourced operations. Further, a variety of political factors, such as political unrest in Thailand or political tension between North Korea and South Korea, could disrupt our operations and our ability to meet our customers’ production schedules. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to obtain alternative capacity. Failure to secure alternative capacity could cause a delay in the shipment of our product solutions, which would cause our revenue to fluctuate or decline. Variability of customer requirements resulting in cancellations, reductions, or delays may adversely affect our operating results. We must provide increasingly rapid product turnaround and respond to ever-shorter lead times. A variety of conditions, both specific to individual customers and generally affecting the demand for OEMs’ products, may cause customers to cancel, reduce, or delay orders. Cancellations, reductions, or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers may adversely affect our revenue and could require us to repurchase inventory from our contract manufacturers, which could adversely affect our costs. On occasion, customers require rapid increases in production, which can strain our resources and reduce our margins. Although we have been able to obtain increased production capacity from our third-party manufacturers, we may be unable to do so at any given time to meet our customers’ demands if their demands exceed anticipated levels. 25 Table of Contents Our operating results may experience significant fluctuations that could result in a decline in the price of our stock. In addition to the variability resulting from the short-term nature of our customers’ commitments, other factors contribute to significant periodic and seasonal quarterly fluctuations in our operating results. These factors include the following: • the cyclicality of the markets we serve; • the timing and size of orders; • order push-outs or cancellations; • the volume of orders relative to our ability to deliver; • product introductions and market acceptance of new products or new generations of products; • the timing of product transitions; • evolution in the life cycles of our customers’ products; • timing of expenses in anticipation of future orders; • changes in product mix; • availability of manufacturing and assembly services; • availability of necessary components and materials; • changes in cost and availability of labor and components; • the expanded use of high-cost, third-party components in the products we sell; • timely delivery of product solutions to customers; • pricing, performance, and availability of competitive products; • introduction of new technologies into the markets we serve; • emergence of new competitors; • pressures on selling prices; • the absolute and relative levels of corporate enterprise and consumer notebook purchases; • our success in serving new markets; and • changes in economic conditions. Accordingly, period-to-period comparisons are not an indicator of our future performance. Negative or unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results may result in a decline in the price of our stock. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our infrastructure, management, and resources could be strained, our ability to effectively manage our business could be diminished, and our operating results could suffer. The failure to manage our planned growth effectively could strain our resources, which would impede our ability to increase revenue. We have increased the number of our human interface solutions and plan to expand further the number and diversity of our solutions and their use in the future. Our ability to manage our planned diversification and growth effectively will require us to • successfully hire, train, retain, and motivate additional employees, including employees outside the United States; • efficiently plan and expand our facilities to meet increased headcount requirements; • enhance our global operational, financial, and management infrastructure; and • expand our development and production capacity. 26 Table of Contents In connection with the expansion and diversification of our product and customer base, we are increasing our personnel and making other expenditures to meet demand for our expanding product offerings, including offerings in the notebook computer and digital lifestyle product markets. Increases in the demand for our products will require further expansion of our traditional notebook computer business as well as an increasing presence in the digital lifestyle product markets, including mobile smartphones and feature phones, the tablet market, and the ultrabook portion of the PC market. To date, our sales of human interface solutions for mobile smartphones and feature phones have varied significantly from quarter to quarter. Risks are further increased because customers do not commit to firm production schedules for more than a short time in advance. Any increase in expenses or investments in infrastructure and facilities in anticipation of future orders that do not materialize would adversely affect our profitability. Our customers also may require rapid increases in design and production services that place an excessive short-term burden on our resources and the resources of our third-party manufacturers. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, our business and operating results could suffer. We depend on key personnel who would be difficult to replace, and our business will likely be harmed if we lose their services or cannot hire additional qualified personnel. Our success depends substantially on the efforts and abilities of our senior management and other key personnel. The competition for qualified management and key personnel, especially engineers, is intense. Although we maintain noncompetition and nondisclosure covenants with most of our key personnel and one of our key personnel has a change of control severance agreement, we do not have employment agreements with any of them. The loss of services of one or more of our key employees or the inability to hire, train, and retain key personnel, especially engineers and technical support personnel, and capable sales and customer-support employees outside the United States, could delay the development and sale of our products, disrupt our business, and interfere with our ability to execute our business plan. In the future, if we are unable to obtain stockholder approval of additional shares for our share-based compensation award programs we could be at a competitive disadvantage in the marketplace for qualified personnel or may be required to increase the cash element of our compensation program. Our compensation program, which includes cash and share-based compensation award components, has been instrumental in attracting, hiring, motivating, and retaining qualified personnel. As a Northern California-based high-growth technology company, competition for qualified personnel in our industry is extremely intense, particularly for engineering and other technical personnel. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, hire, motivate, and retain qualified personnel and our share-based compensation award programs provide us with a competitive compensatory tool for this purpose. The continued use of our share-based compensation program is necessary for us to compete for engineering and other technical personnel and professional talent without significantly increasing cash compensation costs. In the future, if we are unable to obtain stockholder approval of additional shares for our share-based compensation award programs we could be at a competitive disadvantage in the marketplace for qualified personnel or may be required to increase the cash element of our compensation program. Our inability to protect our intellectual property could impair our competitive advantage, reduce our revenue, and increase our costs. Our success and ability to compete depend in part on our ability to maintain the proprietary aspects of our technologies and products. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, confidentiality agreements, and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property, but these measures may provide only limited protection. We license from third parties certain technology used in and for our products. These third-party licenses are granted with restrictions, and there can be no assurances that such third-party technology will remain available to us on terms beneficial to us. Failure to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights or obtain from third parties the right to use necessary technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. Patents may not issue from the patent applications that we have filed or may file in the future. Our issued patents may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, and claims of our patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength, or issued in the proper geographic regions, to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. In addition, certain of our patents will expire within several years. 27 Table of Contents We have not applied for, and do not have, any copyright registration on our technologies or products. We have applied to register certain of our trademarks in the United States and other countries. There can be no assurance that we will obtain registrations of principle or other trademarks in key markets. Failure to obtain registrations could compromise our ability to protect fully our trademarks and brands and could increase the risk of challenge from third parties to our use of our trademarks and brands. We do not consistently rely on written agreements with our customers, suppliers, manufacturers, and other recipients of our technologies and products, and therefore some trade secret protection may be lost and our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights may be limited. Additionally, our customers, suppliers, manufacturers, and other recipients of our technologies and products may seek to use our technologies and products without appropriate limitations. In the past, we did not consistently require our employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality, employment, or proprietary information and invention assignment agreements. Therefore, our former employees and consultants may try to claim some ownership interest in our technologies and products and may use our technologies and products competitively and without appropriate limitations. We may be required to incur substantial expenses and divert management attention and resources in defending intellectual property litigation against us. We may receive notices from third parties that claim our products infringe their rights. From time to time, we receive notice from third parties of the intellectual property rights such parties have obtained. We cannot be certain that our technologies and products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other proprietary rights of others. Any future claims, with or without merit, could result in significant litigation costs and diversion of resources, including the attention of management, and could require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. There can be no assurance that such licenses could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or that the terms of any offered licenses would be acceptable to us. If forced to cease using such technology, there can be no assurance that we would be able to develop or obtain alternate technology. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing, using, or selling certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Furthermore, parties making such claims could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to make, use, or sell our products in the United States or abroad. Such a judgment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, we are obligated under certain agreements to indemnify the other party in connection with infringement by us of the proprietary rights of third parties. In the event we are required to indemnify parties under these agreements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. We may incur substantial expenses and divert management resources in prosecuting others for their unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights. The markets in which we compete are characterized by frequent litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Other companies, including our competitors, may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technologies, duplicate our technologies, or design around our patents and may have or obtain patents or other proprietary rights that would prevent, limit, or interfere with our ability to make, use, or sell our products. Effective intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries in which we operate, such as China and Taiwan. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise use aspects of our technologies and products that we regard as proprietary. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad will be adequate or that competitors will not independently develop similar technologies. If our intellectual property protection is insufficient to protect our intellectual property rights, we could face increased competition in the markets for our technologies and products. Should any of our competitors file patent applications or obtain patents that claim inventions also claimed by us, we may choose to participate in an interference proceeding to determine the right to a patent for these inventions because our business would be harmed if we fail to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights. Even if the outcome is favorable, this proceeding could result in substantial cost to us and disrupt our business. 28 Table of Contents In the future, we also may need to file lawsuits to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. If we become subject to product returns and product liability claims resulting from defects in our products, we may fail to achieve market acceptance of our products and our business could be harmed. We develop complex products in an evolving marketplace and generally warrant our products for a period of 12 months from the date of sale. Despite testing by us and our customers, defects may be found in existing or new products. Manufacturing errors or product defects could result in a delay in recognition or loss of revenue, loss of market share, or failure to achieve market acceptance. Additionally, defects could result in financial or other damages to our customers; cause us to incur significant warranty, support, and repair costs; and divert the attention of our engineering personnel from key product development efforts. In such circumstances, our customers could also seek and obtain damages from us for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly to defend. The occurrence of such problems would likely harm our business. Potential strategic alliances may not achieve their objectives, and the failure to do so could impede our growth. We anticipate that we will enter into strategic alliances. Among other matters, we continually explore strategic alliances designed to enhance or complement our technology or to work in conjunction with our technology; to provide necessary know-how, components, or supplies; and to develop, introduce, and distribute products utilizing our technology. Any strategic alliances may not achieve their intended objectives, and parties to our strategic alliances may not perform as contemplated. The failure of these alliances may impede our ability to introduce new products and enter new markets. Any acquisitions that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, and harm our operating results. We expect to pursue opportunities to acquire other businesses and technologies in order to complement our current human interface solutions, expand the breadth of our markets, enhance our technical capabilities, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. We cannot accurately predict the timing, size, and success of any future acquisitions. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to complete the acquisitions of candidates that we identify. Increased competition for acquisition candidates or increased asking prices by acquisition candidates may increase purchase prices for acquisitions to levels beyond our financial capability or to levels that would not result in the returns required by our acquisition criteria. Acquisitions also may become more difficult in the future as we or others acquire the most attractive candidates. Unforeseen expenses, difficulties, and delays frequently encountered in connection with rapid expansion through acquisitions could inhibit our growth and negatively impact our operating results. If we make any future acquisitions, we could issue stock that would dilute existing stockholders’ percentage ownership, incur substantial debt, assume contingent liabilities, or experience higher operating expenses. As a part of any potential acquisition, we may engage in discussions with various companies. In connection with these discussions, we and each potential acquisition candidate exchange confidential operational and financial information, conduct due diligence inquiries, and consider the structure, terms, and conditions of the potential acquisition. In certain cases, the prospective acquisition candidate agrees not to discuss a potential acquisition with any other party for a specific period of time and agrees to take other actions designed to enhance the possibility of the acquisition, such as preparing audited financial information. Potential acquisition discussions frequently take place over a long period of time and involve difficult business integration and other issues. As a result of these and other factors, a number of potential acquisitions that from time to time appear likely to occur do not result in binding legal agreements and are not consummated, but may result in increased legal and consulting costs. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in overcoming problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions, and our inability to do so could disrupt our operations, result in goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges, and adversely affect our business. Our experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies is limited. We did, however, recently acquire Pacinian Corporation and the Video Display Operation of Integrated Device Technology, Inc. 29 Table of Contents Any acquisitions that we undertake in the future could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, and harm our operations. In order to pursue a successful acquisition strategy, we may need to integrate the operations of acquired businesses into our operations, including centralizing certain functions to achieve cost savings and pursuing programs and processes that leverage our revenue and growth opportunities. The integration of the management, operations, and facilities of acquired businesses with our own could involve difficulties, which could adversely affect our growth rate and operating results. We are in the process of integrating our acquisitions of Pacinian Corporation and the Video Display Operation of Integrated Device Technology, Inc. We may be unable to complete effectively an integration of the management, operations, facilities, and accounting and information systems of acquired businesses with our own; to manage efficiently the combined operations of the acquired businesses with our operations; to achieve our operating, growth, and performance goals for acquired businesses; to achieve additional revenue as a result of our expanded operations; or to achieve operating efficiencies or otherwise realize cost savings as a result of anticipated acquisition synergies. The integration of acquired businesses involves numerous risks, including the following: • the potential disruption of our core business; • the potential strain on our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures; • potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • problems assimilating the purchased operations, technologies, or products; • risks associated with entering markets and businesses in which we have little or no prior experience; • failure of acquired businesses to achieve expected results; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • failure to retain key customers, suppliers, or personnel of acquired businesses; • the risk of impairment charges related to potential write-downs of acquired assets; and • creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies, and information systems. The valuation of our technology conducted in connection with our international operating structure may be challenged, which could result in additional taxes, interest, and penalties. Under our international operating structure, one of our affiliates licensed from us certain rights to the pre-existing and in-process technology associated with our products for exploitation in all geographic markets except the U.S., Japanese, and Korean markets, which we refer to as “ROW markets.” Our affiliate also acquired ownership of all future economic rights to product sales in ROW markets by entering into an agreement to license certain intangibles and a cost-sharing agreement under which we and our affiliate share research and development costs in accordance with certain tax rules and regulations. We believe this structure appropriately reflects where our profits are generated and may result in future tax advantages to us, but there can be no assurances that this will be the case. In fiscal 2011, we were notified by the Internal Revenue Service, or the Service, that our fiscal 2003 through 2006 and fiscal 2008 through 2010 would be subject to an audit. While we believe our unrecognized tax benefits associated with the years and issues under audit are adequate, we can make no assurances that an assessment, if any, will not exceed our accrued unrecognized tax benefits. 30 Table of Contents Repatriation of our foreign earnings to the United States or changes in tax laws may adversely affect our future reported tax rates and financial results or the way we conduct our business. Changes in tax laws may adversely affect our future reported tax rates and financial results or the way we conduct our business. We consider the undistributed operating earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries of approximately $334.8 million as of the end of fiscal 2012, to be indefinitely invested outside the United States and have not provided for U.S. federal and state income taxes that may result from future remittances of those undistributed operating earnings. Proposals to reform U.S. tax laws, including proposals that could reduce or eliminate the deferral of U.S. income tax on our foreign subsidiaries’ undistributed earnings, could require those earnings to be taxed at the U.S. federal income tax rate. Currently our investments in auction rate securities, or ARS investments, are not liquid, and we may lose some or all of our principal invested or may be required to further reduce the carrying value if the issuers are not able to meet their payment obligations or if we sell our ARS investments before they recover. We ended fiscal 2012 with $27.4 million invested in ARS investments for which the auctions have failed and our investments are not liquid. The carrying value of these investments was $15.3 million, reflecting $14.0 million of other-than-temporary impairment, partially offset by $2.0 million of unrealized recovery. If the issuers are not able to meet their payment obligations or if we sell our ARS investments before they recover, we may lose some or all of the principal invested or may be required to further reduce the carrying value. This would adversely affect our financial position, operating results, and cash flows. Legislation affecting the markets in which we participate could adversely affect our ability to implement our growth strategies. Our ability to expand our business may be adversely impacted by future laws or regulations. Our customers’ products may be subject to laws relating to environmental regulations, communications, encryption technology, electronic commerce, e-signatures, governmental control over content, and privacy. Any of these laws could be expensive to comply with, and the marketability of our products could be adversely affected. We face risks associated with security breaches or cyber attacks. We face risks associated with security breaches or cyber attacks of our computer systems or those of our third-party representatives, vendors, and service providers. Although we have implemented security procedures and controls to address these threats, our systems may still be vulnerable to data theft, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties, or similar disruptive problems. If we were to experience a security breach or cyber attack, we could be required to incur substantial costs and liabilities, including the following: expenses to rectify the consequences of the security breach or cyber attack, liability for stolen assets or information, costs of repairing damage to our systems, lost revenue and income resulting from any system downtime caused by such breach or attack, increased costs of cybersecurity protection, costs of incentives we may be required to offer to our customers or business partners to retain their business, and damage to our reputation. In addition, any compromise of security or a cyber attack could deter customers or business partners from entering into transactions that involve providing confidential information to us. Furthermore, if confidential customer information or information belonging to our business partners is misappropriated from our systems, we could be sued by those who assert we did not take adequate precautions to safeguard our systems and confidential data belonging to our customers or business partners, which could subject us to liability and result in significant legal expenses of defending these claims. As a result, any compromise of security of our systems or cyber attack could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 31 Table of Contents We must finance the growth of our business and the development of new products, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. To remain competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development, marketing, and business development. Our failure to increase sufficiently our net revenue to offset these increased costs would adversely affect our operating results. From time to time, we may seek additional equity or debt financing to provide for funds required to expand our business, including through acquisitions. We cannot predict the timing or amount of any such requirements at this time. If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to expand our business or to develop new business at the rate desired and our operating results may suffer. Debt financing increases expenses and must be repaid regardless of operating results. Equity financing could result in additional dilution to existing stockholders. We consider the undistributed operating earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the United States. If we were to distribute a portion of those earnings to our U.S. parent company to finance our future growth, we would be required to pay U.S. federal and state taxes on the distribution and further may be required to accrue U.S. and state taxes on the remaining undistributed operating earnings, which would adversely affect our tax rate and financial results. Our target markets are cyclical and may result in fluctuations in our operating results. The PC and electronics industries have experienced significant economic downturns at various times. These downturns are characterized by diminished product demand, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, and production overcapacity. In addition, the PC and electronics industries are cyclical in nature. We seek to reduce our exposure to industry downturns and cyclicality by providing design and production services for leading companies in rapidly expanding industry segments. We may, however, experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results because of general industry conditions or events occurring in the general economy. Continuing uncertainty of the U.S. and global economy may have serious implications for the growth and stability of our business and may negatively affect our stock price. The revenue growth and profitability of our business depends significantly on the overall demand in the notebook computer market, including ultrabooks, in the markets for digital lifestyle products and other electronic devices, including mobile smartphones and feature phones, and in the tablet market. Softening demand in these markets caused by ongoing economic uncertainty may result in decreased revenue or earnings levels or growth rates. The U.S. and global economy has been historically cyclical, and market conditions continue to be challenging, which has resulted in individuals and companies delaying or reducing expenditures. Further delays or reductions in spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products, and consequently on our business, financial condition, operating results, prospects, and stock price. We expect to incur additional expenses in complying with corporate governance and public disclosure requirements. Changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including SEC regulations and Nasdaq Global Select Market rules, create uncertainty and increased expenses for companies such as ours. New or changed laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations, and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. In addition, it may become more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members, which could harm our business. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations, and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. 32 Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act requires the SEC to establish new disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use “conflict” minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in their products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. When these new requirements are implemented, they could adversely affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of our products. There will also be costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, including for due diligence in regard to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. The accounting requirements for income taxes on certain of our share-based awards will subject our future quarterly and annual effective tax rates to greater volatility and, consequently, our ability to estimate reasonably our future quarterly and annual effective tax rates is greatly diminished. We recognize tax benefit upon expensing nonqualified stock options and deferred stock units, or DSUs, issued under our share-based compensation plans. However, under current accounting standards, we cannot recognize tax benefit concurrent with expensing incentive stock options and employee stock purchase plan shares (qualified stock options) issued under our share-based compensation plans. For qualified stock options that vested after our adoption of the applicable accounting standards, we recognize the tax benefit only in the period when disqualifying dispositions of the underlying stock occur and, for qualified stock options that vested prior to our adoption of the applicable accounting standards, the tax benefit is recorded directly to additional paid-in capital. Accordingly, because we cannot recognize the tax benefit for share-based compensation expense associated with qualified stock options until the occurrence of future disqualifying dispositions of the underlying stock and such disqualified dispositions may happen in periods when our stock price substantially increases, and because a portion of that tax benefit may be directly recorded to additional paid-in capital, our future quarterly and annual effective tax rates will be subject to greater volatility and, consequently, our ability to estimate reasonably our future quarterly and annual effective tax rates is greatly diminished. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse unexpected fluctuations and affect our reported operating results. A change in accounting standards or practices could have a significant effect on our reported operating results. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred in the past and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Further, the U.S.-based Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, is currently working together with the International Accounting Standards Board, or IASB, on several projects to further align accounting principles and facilitate more comparable financial reporting between companies who are required to follow U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP, under SEC regulations and those who are required to follow International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS, outside of the United States. These efforts by the FASB and IASB may result in different accounting principles under GAAP that may result in materially different financial results for us in areas including, but not limited to, principles for recognizing revenue and lease accounting. It is not clear if or when these potential changes in accounting principles may become effective, whether we have the proper systems and controls in place to accommodate such changes, and the impact that any such changes may have on our consolidated financial position, operating results, and cash flows. In addition, as we evolve and change our business and sales models, we are currently unable to take into account how these potential changes may impact our new models, particularly in the area of revenue recognition. Our charter documents and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, and discourage a takeover. Our certificate of incorporation and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying attempts by others to obtain control of our company, even when these attempts may be in the best interests of our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock. Delaware law also imposes conditions on certain business combination transactions with “interested stockholders.” Our certificate of incorporation divides our Board of Directors into three classes, with one class to stand for election each year for a three-year term after the election. The classification of directors tends to discourage a third party from initiating a proxy solicitation or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company and may maintain the incumbency of our Board of Directors, as this structure generally increases the difficulty of, or may delay, replacing a majority of directors. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to fill vacancies or newly created directorships. A majority of the directors then in office may elect a successor to fill any vacancies or newly created directorships. 33 Table of Contents Sales of large numbers of shares could adversely affect the price of our common stock. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, all of the outstanding shares of our common stock were eligible for resale in the public markets. Of these shares, approximately one-third were held by affiliates and were eligible for resale in the public markets subject to compliance with the volume and manner of sale rules of Rules 144 or 701 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and the balance of the shares were eligible for resale in the public markets as unrestricted shares. In general, under Rule 144 as currently in effect, any person (or persons whose shares are aggregated for purposes of Rule 144) who is deemed an affiliate of our company and beneficially owns restricted securities with respect to which at least six months has elapsed since the later of the date the shares were acquired from us, or from an affiliate of ours, is entitled to sell within any three-month period a number of shares that does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock or the average weekly trading volume in common stock during the four calendar weeks preceding such sale. Sales by affiliates under Rule 144 also are subject to certain manner-of-sale provisions and notice requirements and to the availability of current public information about us. Rule 701, as currently in effect, permits our employees, officers, directors, and consultants who purchase shares pursuant to a written compensatory plan or contract to resell these shares in reliance upon Rule 144, but without compliance with specific restrictions. Rule 701 provides that affiliates may sell their Rule 701 shares under Rule 144 without complying with the holding period requirement and non-affiliates may sell their shares in reliance on Rule 144 without complying with the holding period, public information, volume limitation, or notice provisions of Rule 144. A person who is not an affiliate, who has not been an affiliate within three months prior to sale, and who beneficially owns restricted securities with respect to which at least one year has elapsed since the later of the date the shares were acquired from us, or from an affiliate of ours, is entitled to sell such shares under Rule 144 without regard to any of the volume limitations or other requirements described above. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market could adversely affect prevailing market prices. We have registered an aggregate of $100.0 million of common stock and preferred stock for issuance in connection with acquisitions, which shares generally will be freely tradeable after their issuance under Rule 145 of the Securities Act, unless held by an affiliate of the acquired company, in which case such shares will be subject to the volume and manner of sale restrictions of Rule 144 discussed above. The issuance or subsequent sale of these shares in the public market could adversely affect prevailing market prices. We have registered for offer and sale the shares of common stock that are reserved for issuance pursuant to our outstanding share-based compensation plans. Shares issued in connection with our share-based compensation plans generally will be eligible for sale in the public market, except that affiliates will continue to be subject to volume limitations and other requirements of Rule 144. The issuance or subsequent sale of such shares could depress the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, including the following: • variations in our quarterly results; • the financial guidance we may provide to the public, any changes in such guidance, or our failure to meet such guidance; • changes in financial estimates by industry or securities analysts or our failure to meet such estimates; • various market factors or perceived market factors, including rumors, whether or not correct, involving us, our customers, our suppliers, or our competitors; • announcements of technological innovations by us or by our competitors; • introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; 34 Table of Contents • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • the gain or loss of significant orders; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers, and the economy as a whole; • short positions held by investors; and • general financial market conditions or occurrences. In addition, stocks of technology companies have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to these companies’ operating performance. Public announcements by technology companies concerning, among other things, their performance, accounting practices, or legal problems could cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our actual operating performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 