Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future operating results and the value of our securities are subject to a number of factors, including: We need more cash immediately, and also on an ongoing basis. We have never generated any revenue from product sales. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $153,425,000, cash and cash equivalents of only $3,421,000, a working capital deficiency of $6,040,000 and a deficiency in stockholders’ equity of $10,884,000. Although we raised additional working capital in the 2006 Private Placement, the amounts raised are only expected to provide us with additional liquidity into the second quarter of 2007 and we will need to raise additional capital before the second quarter of 2007 ends. Because we do not anticipate generating any revenue from our products until at least 2012, if at all, we will continue to have negative cash flow. We need to raise substantial additional capital to fund our operations and repay our loan obligations. We will need to raise substantial funds to continue our operations and to conduct research and development, preclinical studies and clinical trials necessary to bring our potential products to market and to establish manufacturing and marketing capabilities. We will continue to have limited cash resources. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in consummating any financing transaction or, if consummated, that the terms and conditions will not be unfavorable to us. 11 Table of Contents In March 2007 we decided to terminate the HIV clinical trials. We intend to focus our ongoing development efforts on NeuroVaxTM and additional autoimmune programs. However, we may have to curtail these efforts if we cannot raise sufficient financing. The timing and amount of our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including (but not limited to): • the timing of approval to begin new clinical trials; • our ability to raise additional funding and the amounts raised, if any; • the time and cost involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • continued scientific progress in our research and development programs; • the scope and results of preclinical studies and clinical trials; • the cost of manufacturing scale-up; • the costs involved in filing, prosecuting and enforcing patent claims; • competing technological and market developments; • effective commercialization activities and arrangements; • the costs of defending against and settling lawsuits; and/or • other factors not within our control or known to us. Our perceived momentum, and therefore also our access to capital, could be limited if we do not progress in: • obtaining regulatory approvals; • our research and development programs; • our preclinical and clinical trials; and/or • scaling up manufacturing. Our access to capital also could be limited by: • overall financial market conditions; • the security interest in substantially all of our assets in respect of indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount of $8,935,000; • Potential dilution which would occur upon the exercise or conversion of outstanding derivative securities which overlie approximately 8,800,000 shares of our common stock. Our independent registered public accountants have expressed substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $153,425,000. We have not generated revenues from the commercialization of any product. We expect to continue to incur substantial net operating losses over the next several years, which would imperil our ability to continue operations. Our cash currently on hand does not provide us with adequate liquidity beyond the second quarter of 2007. We have $5,780,000 of secured indebtedness which matures on January 1, 2008. We may not be able to generate sufficient product revenue to become profitable on a sustained basis, or at all, and do not expect to generate significant product revenue before 2012, if at all. We have operating and liquidity concerns due to our significant net losses and negative cash flows from operations. As a result of these and other factors, our independent registered public accountants, LevitZacks, indicated, in their report on our 2006 financial statements, that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. 12 Table of Contents Our previous stockholders could be diluted by well over 90% as a result of our 2006 Private Placement and may suffer additional dilution in connection with future financings. As part of our 2006 Private Placement, we offered and sold 80 units in a private securities offering, each unit comprising a $100,000 principal amount 8% Senior Secured Convertible Promissory Note, due January 1, 2008, and a warrant to purchase up to 150,000 shares of common stock at a price of $2.00 per share. The principal plus accrued interest on the notes may be converted into common stock at a conversion price equal to $2.00 per share. We have issued approximately 7,327,000 shares of common stock in respect of note conversions and warrant exercises through March 31, 2007. If the remaining notes are converted in full, we would be required to issue approximately 2,693,000 more shares of common stock. Additionally, our placement agent for this offering, which is an affiliate of Kevin Kimberlin, a director and our largest stockholder, received warrants to purchase approximately 1,769,000 shares of common stock at a price of $2.00 per share, and warrants to purchase approximately 90,000 shares of common stock at $0.80 per share. In March 2007, we entered into a Warrant Exercise and Price Protection arrangement with certain warrant holders of the 2006 Private Placement. This arrangement included a special warrant exercise inducement whereby (i) the warrant holder would receive 2.5 shares of our common stock for each $2.00 of warrant exercise price paid to us (this equates to an effective price of $0.80 per share) and, (ii) the warrant holder would receive short-term ratchet-style price protection (through September 30, 2007) on March 2007 warrant exercises. During March 2007, we issued approximately 1,128,000 shares of common stock for the exercise of warrants under the Warrant Exercise and Price Protection arrangement. The 1,128,000 shares are included in the previous paragraph’s figures. Moreover, in anticipation of our 2006 Private Placement we also issued 534,252 shares of common stock and issued other derivative securities convertible or exercisable for 500,000 shares of common stock, all at $2.00. Moreover, the 2006 Private Placement and related transactions resulted in outstanding derivative securities held by Cornell Capital becoming convertible or exercisable (at $2.00 per share) for approximately 468,000 more shares than previously, and resulted in outstanding convertible notes held by an affiliate of Mr. Kimberlin becoming convertible (at $2.00 per share) for approximately 2,300,000 more shares of common stock than previously, and resulted in warrants held by an affiliate of Mr. Kimberlin becoming exercisable (at a range of $6.70 to $30.90 per share) for approximately 971,000 more shares of common stock than previously. As a result of the 2006 Private Placement, our existing stockholders as of early 2006, after the conversion and exercise of the notes and warrants, hold only a tiny fraction of the equity interest they previously held in the Company. In order to provide adequate capital stock to allow for the full conversion and exercise of these notes and warrants, we sought and received stockholder approval for an increase in the authorized common stock and amended our certificate of incorporation to implement this increase on April 11, 2006. Although our management recognizes the need to secure additional financing, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in consummating any financing transaction or, if consummated, that the terms and conditions of the financing will not be unfavorable to us. Any other future near-term financings will almost certainly involve substantial further dilution of outstanding equity. Any subsequent offerings may also require the creation or issuance of a class or series of stock that by its terms ranks senior to the common stock with respect to rights relating to dividends, voting and/or liquidation. Our stock has been delisted from Nasdaq and is subject to penny stock rules, which may make it more difficult for us to raise capital and for you to sell your securities. In November 2005, our stock and Class B warrants were delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market (Nasdaq) due to our failure to satisfy the Nasdaq continued listing criteria. As a result, our stock is currently quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board quotation service (OTC). Securities traded on the OTC generally suffer from lower liquidity and greater price volatility. Additionally, because our stock price is currently considered a “penny stock” under regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, broker-dealers who buy and sell our securities are subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements. These additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the common stock and warrants and your ability to sell our securities in the secondary market. Being delisted also hurts our ability to raise additional financing, in part because many investors are unwilling to take large positions in stocks which do not trade on Nasdaq or a major stock exchange. Our failure to successfully develop our product candidates may cause us to cease operations. We have not completed the development of any products. We are dependent upon our ability to successfully develop our product candidates and our failure to do so may cause us to cease operations. 13 Table of Contents We have chosen to focus our development efforts on NeuroVaxTM and, until March 2007, on our HIV therapy. We cannot assure you that any of our drug candidates will succeed in clinical trials or that we, or our corporate collaborators, if any, will ever obtain any regulatory approvals for these drug candidates. In March 2007, we decided to terminate our HIV studies and to consider all strategic alternatives for our HIV program. We are currently analyzing 52-week data from the first large cohort of HIV clinical-trial participants. We anticipate completing the analysis of the data in the second quarter of 2007. As a result of our decision to terminate the current HIV studies, we may have lost momentum, credibility, and value of our HIV program and there can be no assurance that this can be resurrected in the future. The results of our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may not be indicative of future clinical trial results. A commitment of substantial financial and other resources to conduct time-consuming research, preclinical studies and clinical trials will be required if we are to develop any products. None of our potential products may prove to be safe or effective in clinical trials. Approval by the U.S. FDA, or other regulatory approvals, including export license permissions, may not be obtained and even if successfully developed and approved, our products may not achieve market acceptance. Any products resulting from our programs may not be successfully developed or commercially available until 2012 or later, if at all. Moreover, unacceptable toxicity or side effects could occur at any time in the course of human clinical trials or, if any products are successfully developed and approved for marketing, during commercial use of our products. Although preliminary research and clinical evidence have shown our product candidates to be safe, the appearance of any unacceptable toxicity or side effects could interrupt, limit, delay or abort the development of any of our products or, if previously approved, necessitate their withdrawal from the market. The lengthy product approval process and uncertainty of government regulatory requirements may delay or prevent us from commercializing products. We must work to re-establish our credibility with the FDA, especially in our HIV program. Clinical testing, manufacture, promotion, export and sale of our products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the United States, principally the FDA, and corresponding state and numerous foreign regulatory agencies worldwide. This regulation may delay or prevent us from commercializing products. Noncompliance with applicable requirements can result in, among other things, fines, injunctions, seizure or recall of products, total or partial suspension of product manufacturing and marketing, failure of the government to grant pre-market approval, withdrawal of marketing approvals and criminal prosecution. The regulatory process for new therapeutic drug products, including the required preclinical studies and clinical testing, is lengthy and expensive. We may not receive necessary international regulatory or FDA clearances for our drug candidates in a timely manner, or at all. The length of the clinical trial process and the number of patients regulatory agencies will require to be enrolled in the clinical trials in order to establish the safety and efficacy of our products is uncertain. Even if late-stage clinical trials for our drug candidates are initiated and successfully completed, the FDA and numerous foreign regulatory agencies may not approve these candidates for commercial sale. We may encounter significant delays or excessive costs in our efforts to secure necessary approvals. Regulatory requirements are evolving and uncertain. Future United States or foreign legislative or administrative acts could also prevent or delay regulatory approval of our products. We may not be able to obtain the necessary approvals for clinical trials, manufacturing or marketing of any of our products under development. Even if commercial regulatory approvals are obtained, they may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed. In addition, a marketed product is subject to continual regulatory review. Later discovery of previously unknown problems or failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements may result in restrictions on the marketing of a product or withdrawal of the product from the market, as well as possible civil or criminal sanctions. Among the other requirements for regulatory approval is the requirement that prospective manufacturers conform to the FDA’s Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP, requirements. In complying with the FDA’s GMP requirements, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in production, record keeping and quality control to assure that products meet applicable specifications and other requirements. Failure to comply and maintain compliance with the FDA’s GMP requirements subjects manufacturers to possible FDA regulatory action and as a result may have a material adverse effect on us. We, or our contract manufacturers, if any, may not be able to maintain compliance with the FDA’s GMP requirements on a continuing basis. Failure to maintain compliance could have a material adverse effect on us. The FDA has not designated expanded access protocols for our drug candidates as “treatment” protocols. The FDA may not determine that any of our drug candidates meet all of the FDA’s criteria for use of an investigational drug for treatment use. Even if one of our candidates is allowed for treatment use, third party payers may not provide reimbursement for the costs of treatment. The FDA also may not consider our product candidates under development to be appropriate candidates for accelerated approval, expedited review or “fast track” designation. 14 Table of Contents The timing and substance of most FDA decisions are, as a practical matter, discretionary. We believe that there may be significant doubts in the minds of some persons at the FDA regarding our corporate credibility and the viability of our HIV product candidates. Our efforts to re-establish our credibility may not succeed; if we are unsuccessful in our efforts, the FDA approvals that are indispensable if we are to survive and succeed, may be delayed or denied despite any merit our applications may have. Marketing any drug products outside of the United States will subject us to numerous and varying foreign regulatory requirements governing the design and conduct of human clinical trials and marketing approval. Additionally, our ability to export drug candidates outside the United States on a commercial basis is subject to the receipt from the FDA of export permission, which may not be available on a timely basis, if at all. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may be even longer than that required to obtain FDA approval. Foreign regulatory approval processes include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval set forth above, and approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by the health authorities of any other country. Before we will be permitted to export either of our drug candidates to foreign countries for clinical use in those countries, we need to meet a number of regulatory requirements. One of those requirements is that we must ensure that we can manufacture the candidate at our United States manufacturing facility in a manner that is in “substantial compliance” with current United States GMP requirements. We must provide the FDA with “credible scientific evidence” that the candidate would be safe and effective under the conditions of proposed use in foreign countries. There can be no assurance, however, that we will successfully meet any or all of these requirements for the export of our drug candidates, and if we are unable to successfully meet all regulatory requirements, we will not be permitted by the FDA to export our candidates to foreign countries for clinical use, even if the foreign governments were to approve such use. None of our current clinical trials is being conducted in the United States. Our current Phase II clinical trial for NeuroVax™ is being conducted in various European countries and our HIV trials that were terminated in early 2007 were conducted in the United Kingdom, Canada and Italy. Moreover, favorable findings from clinical trials in Eastern and Central European countries (where our NeuroVax™ clinical trial is being conducted) might have less cachet with the regulatory and scientific communities than equivalent findings from trials conducted in Western Europe, Canada and/or the United States. Our patents and proprietary technology may not be enforceable and the patents and proprietary technology of others may prevent us from commercializing products. Some of our patents expire fairly soon. We have a portfolio of approximately 170 patents worldwide. Although we believe these patents to be protected and enforceable, the failure to obtain meaningful patent protection for our potential products and processes would greatly diminish the value of our potential products and processes. In addition, whether or not our patents are issued, or issued with limited coverage, others may receive patents, which contain claims applicable to our products. Patents we are not aware of may adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize products. Also, our patents related to HIV therapy have expiration dates that range from 2010 to 2017 and our patents related to autoimmune diseases have expiration dates that range from 2010 to 2019. The limited duration of our patents could diminish the value of our potential products and processes, particularly since we do not expect to generate any revenue from our products sooner than 2012, if at all. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are often highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Therefore, the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology and pharmaceutical patents cannot be predicted. We also rely upon non-patented trade secrets and know how, and others may independently develop substantially equivalent trade secrets or know how. We also rely on protecting our proprietary technology in part through confidentiality agreements with our current and former corporate collaborators, employees, consultants and some contractors. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breaches. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or independently discovered by our competitors. Litigation may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement, to enforce our patents and/or to protect trade secrets. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management efforts regardless of the results of the litigation. An adverse result in litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed or require us to cease using proprietary technologies. 15 Table of Contents Our products and processes may infringe, or be found to infringe, on patents not owned or controlled by us. If relevant claims of third-party patents are upheld as valid and enforceable, we could be prevented from practicing the subject matter claimed in the patents, or be required to obtain licenses or redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement. Technological change and competition may render our potential products obsolete. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries continue to undergo rapid change, and competition is intense and we expect it to increase. Competitors may succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective or affordable than any that we are developing or that would render our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Many of our competitors have substantially greater experience, financial and technical resources and production and development capabilities than we. Accordingly, some of our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for products more rapidly or effectively than we, or develop or acquire technologies and products that are more effective and/or affordable than any that we are developing. In addition, Remune® and IR103 are not suggested as a possible cure for HIV/AIDS, but merely as a means to delay its progression before other therapies are begun. If a true cure or preventive vaccine for HIV/AIDS were found, Remune® and IR103 would be of lesser value. Our lack of commercial manufacturing and marketing experience and our dependence on third parties for manufacturing may prevent us from successfully commercializing products. We have not manufactured any of our products in commercial quantities. We may not successfully make the transition from manufacturing clinical trial quantities to commercial production quantities or be able to arrange for contract manufacturing and this could prevent us from commercializing products or limit our profitability from our products. Even if our product candidates are successfully developed and receive FDA approval, we have not demonstrated the capability to manufacture a product in commercial quantities. We rely on a third party for the final inactivation step of the IR103 manufacturing process. If the existing manufacturing operations prove inadequate, there can be no assurance that any arrangement with a third party can be established on a timely basis or that we can establish other manufacturing capacity on a timely basis. We have no experience in the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical or biotechnology products. Thus, our products may not be successfully commercialized even if they are developed and approved for commercialization and even if we can manufacture them. In addition, our competitors will have significantly greater marketing resources and power than we will. The manufacturing process of our products involves a number of steps and requires compliance with stringent quality control specifications imposed by us and by the FDA. Moreover, our products can be manufactured only in a facility that has undergone a satisfactory inspection and certification by the FDA. For these reasons, we would not be able to quickly replace our manufacturing capacity if we were unable to use our manufacturing facilities as a result of a fire, natural disaster (including an earthquake), equipment failure or other difficulty, or if our manufacturing facilities are deemed not in compliance with the GMP requirements, and the non-compliance could not be rapidly rectified. Our inability or reduced capacity to manufacture our products would prevent us from successfully commercializing our products. Further, in March 2007 we decided to cease manufacturing at the Company’s King of Prussia, Pennsylvania HIV antigen manufacturing facility. In the near-term we expect to maintain the capability to re-establish manufacturing at our King of Prussia facility; however, if we decide to utilize this facility to manufacture our products in the future, we would incur additional costs and there would be no assurance that we would be successful. We may enter into arrangements with contract manufacturing companies to expand our own production capacity in order to meet requirements for our products, or to attempt to improve manufacturing efficiency. If we choose to contract for manufacturing services, we may encounter costs, delays and /or other difficulties in producing, packaging and distributing our clinical trials and finished product. Further, contract manufacturers must also operate in compliance with the GMP requirements; failure to do so could result in, among other things, the disruption of our product supplies. Our potential dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of our products may adversely affect our profit margins and our ability to develop and deliver products on a timely and competitive basis. We may be unable to enter into collaborations. Our current development strategy is to seek collaborative arrangements with larger pharmaceutical companies for the clinical development and commercialization of our product candidates. If we are able to enter into such arrangements, we expect that a large portion of the ongoing development costs for our drug candidates would be funded by our collaborative partners. However, we may be unable to negotiate collaborative arrangements on favorable terms, or at all, and any future collaborative arrangements may not be successful or continue. If we are unable to enter into favorable collaborative arrangements, we expect that our future capital requirements would increase and we may be required to delay or curtail development efforts for one or both of our drug candidates. 16 Table of Contents Adverse determinations and pressures concerning product pricing, reimbursement and related matters could prevent us from successfully commercializing any of our product candidates. Our ability to earn revenue on any of our products will depend in part on the extent to which patient reimbursement for the costs of the products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers, managed care organizations and other organizations. Failure of patients to obtain appropriate cost reimbursement may prevent us from successfully commercializing any of our other products. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices of medical products and services. If purchasers or users of any of our other products are not able to obtain adequate reimbursement for the cost of using the products, they may forego or reduce their use. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products and whether adequate third party coverage will be available. In addition, many HIV patients live in poor countries, which may be unable to afford to pay substantial sums for their citizens’ HIV therapies. Political pressure exists to seek to require manufacturers of HIV therapies to supply them at below-market prices to poor persons and/or poor countries, and this pressure may increase in the future. Kevin Kimberlin, a member of our Board of Directors, beneficially owns approximately 18% of our outstanding common stock and has the rights to acquire approximately 3,511,000 additional shares of our common stock, which could theoretically result in ownership of up to approximately 41% of our outstanding shares and could allow him to control or influence stockholder votes. As of December 31, 2006, Kevin B. Kimberlin, a member of our Board of Directors, together with his affiliates and/or related parties, currently owns of record approximately 18% of our outstanding shares of common stock. He and they also have the right to acquire, through the conversion of indebtedness and the exercise of options and warrants beneficially owned by them, approximately 3,511,000 additional shares. If his/their indebtedness, options and warrants (but not those of anyone else) were to be converted and exercised in full, Mr. Kimberlin and his affiliates would own approximately 41% of our outstanding shares of common stock on a post-conversion/exercise basis. If, in connection therewith or earlier, all of our other $2.00 derivative securities were also converted or exercised in full, Mr. Kimberlin and his affiliates would only own approximately 25% of our common stock with his full conversion and exercise. As a result of ownership of our common stock and the ability to acquire additional shares, Mr. Kimberlin and his affiliates and/or related persons have the ability to influence, and possibly control, substantially all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. If your interests as a stockholder are different from his interests, you may not agree with his decisions and you might be adversely affected thereby. Mr. Kimberlin is also a secured creditor. As collateral for the Mortgage and Qubit Notes, which have principal amounts of $3,155,000 and $250,000 and mature on January 1, 2009 and January 1, 2008, respectively, parties affiliated with and/or associated with Kevin Kimberlin have a perfected security interest (shared with the 2006 Private Placement note holders) in our intellectual property and other assets. Pursuant to the security agreement, we must comply with covenants with respect to these assets. The security interests and covenants could impair our ability to enter into collaborative and licensing arrangements. We have significant indebtedness that will mature before our operations can repay it. We have (as of December 31, 2006) $5,780,000 of secured debt due on January 1, 2008 and $3,155,000 of secured debt due on January 1, 2009. We will not have any product revenues before those dates. There can be no assurance that we can pay, refinance or extend this debt. Our class action settlement remains subject to final court approval. Between July 2001 and 2003, several complaints were filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California seeking an unspecified amount of damages on behalf of an alleged class of persons, who purchased shares of our Common Stock at various times between May 17, 1999 and July 6, 2001. The complaints have been consolidated into a single 17 Table of Contents action under the name In re Immune Response Securities Litigation by order of the Court, and a consolidated, amended complaint was filed in July 2003. The consolidated, amended complaint names us and certain of our former officers as defendants, as well as Agouron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and one of its officers. The consolidated, amended complaint alleges that we, Agouron and/or such officers violated federal securities laws by misrepresenting and failing to disclose certain information about the results of clinical trials of Remune®. On July 5, 2005, a shareholder derivative complaint was filed in the Superior Court of the State of California in the County of San Diego against certain of our current and former officers and directors, seeking an unspecified amount of damages. We are also named as a nominal defendant in the complaint, which alleges, among other things, that such officers and directors breached their fiduciary duties by causing the misrepresentation of our financial results and failing to correct our publicly reported financial results and guidance, and engaged in certain improper acts including abuse of control, gross mismanagement and waste of corporate assets from May 1999 to the present. On October 3, 2006 we reached agreement with class counsel to settle for approximately $9.6 million the class action lawsuit. The settlement, which will be funded entirely by our insurers, is conditioned on notice to the class members and court approval. In March 2007, the federal court gave preliminary approval to the settlement. We also reached agreement in principle to settle the related California state-court derivative lawsuit for approximately $0.25 million, which settlement would also be funded entirely by our insurers, plus agreement to adopt certain corporate governance requirements. The California state-court settlement hearing occurred on November 27, 2006 and California state-court approval was received. The settlements, which include no admission of wrongdoing by us, Agouron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or any individual defendants, will have no effect on our operations, cash flow, or financial position as they are within insurance limits. The settlements also include company officers who were named in the lawsuits. Although we have reached agreements to settle these cases, the settlements remain subject to final federal court approval. If final federal court approval is not obtained we may have to continue with the litigations. We cannot now predict or determine the outcome or resolution of these proceedings, or estimate the amounts of, or potential range of, loss with respect to these proceedings. In addition, the timing of the final resolution of these proceedings is uncertain. The range of possible resolutions of these proceedings could include judgments against us or our former officers or settlements that could require substantial payments by us, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. These proceedings also might require substantial attention of our management team and therefore, regardless of whether we win or lose the litigation, divert their time and attention from our business and operations. Our reporting of profits may confuse investors and result in lawsuits against us. Due to EITF No. 00-19, we reported a large net income for the year ended December 31, 2006 and may report similar phantom net income in future periods. If investors fail to understand that this net income is an artifice which does not reflect our unprofitable operations, our stock price might rise temporarily and then fall again. This scenario might then lead disappointed investors to sue us on a variety of possible legal theories. Hazardous materials and environmental matters could expose us to significant costs. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. Although we do not currently manufacture commercial quantities of our product candidates, we produce limited quantities of these products for our clinical trials. Our research and development and manufacturing processes involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials, biological hazardous materials and radioactive compounds. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and some waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, the risk of contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an incident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any liability could exceed our resources. Current or future environmental laws or regulations may have a material adverse effect on our operations, business and assets. We ceased manufacturing HIV antigen at out King of Prussia facility in 2007. 18 Table of Contents Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that could make attempts by stockholders to change management more difficult. The approval of 66 2/3% of our voting stock is required to approve specified transactions and to take specified stockholder actions, including the calling of special meetings of stockholders and the amendment of any of the anti-takeover provisions, including those providing for a classified board of directors, contained in our certificate of incorporation. Further, we have a “poison pill” stockholder rights plan, which would cause substantial dilution to the ownership of a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors and may have the effect of deterring hostile takeover attempts. The substantial aggregate equity positions of Mr. Kimberlin and his affiliates would make a hostile takeover attempt very unlikely. The practical effect of these provisions is to require a party seeking control of us to negotiate with our Board of Directors, which could delay or prevent a change in control. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our securities and make attempts by stockholders to change management more difficult. We are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits us from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person first becomes an “interested stockholder,” unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The application of Section 203 also could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 1C. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of March 15, 2007: Name Age Position Joseph F. O’Neill, M.D. 54 President and Chief Executive Officer Michael K. Green 51 Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer Georgia Theofan, Ph.D. 50 Vice President, Clinical Development Peter Lowry 45 Vice President, Manufacturing Joseph F. O’Neill, M.D. President and Chief Executive Officer Dr. O’Neill joined us in October 2005. Most recently, Dr. O’Neill was the Deputy Coordinator and Chief Medical Officer in the Office of the U.S. Global AIDS Coordinator, Department of State from August 2003 to August 2005. Before joining the State Department, Dr. O’Neill served as the Director of the White House Office of National AIDS Policy from July 2002 to August 2003. Before his White House appointment, he served as Acting Director of the Office of HIV/AIDS Policy in the Department of Health and Human Services from 2001 to July 2002. From 1997 to the end of 2001, Dr. O’Neill served as Associate Administrator for HIV/AIDS in the Health Resources and Services Administration’s HIV/AIDS Bureau. In this capacity, he directed the national Ryan White Comprehensive AIDS Resources Emergency (CARE) Act program that provides medical care and treatment, social services and pharmaceuticals to people living with HIV/AIDS throughout the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and U.S. territories. In addition, he serves on a number of advisory boards including the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation’s Promoting Excellence in End of Life Care program and the Brazilian Association for Palliative Care. Dr. O’Neill is a graduate of the School of Medicine of the University of California at San Francisco and holds degrees in business administration, public health, health and medical sciences from the University of California at Berkeley. He is board certified in internal medicine. 19 Table of Contents Michael K. Green Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer Mr. Green joined us in October 2003, bringing over 25 years of extensive finance, business and accounting experience in various technology industries in both the United States and Australia. Mr. Green was promoted from Vice President, Finance to Chief Operating Officer on October 31, 2005, while retaining his Chief Financial Officer position. Mr. Green served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Synbiotics Corporation, a publicly traded animal health company, from May 1991 to September 2002 and as Chief Financial Officer of Immunopharmaceutics Inc., a human pharmaceutical company, from May 1991 to October 1993, where he was responsible for all finance, accounting, administrative, human resource and MIS matters. Before that Mr. Green spent 13 years with Price Waterhouse in various offices in the United States and Australia where he is a C.P.A. and a Chartered Accountant. Mr. Green co-authored the Price Waterhouse guidebook titled “Taking Your Company Public,” and the Price Waterhouse lecture series titled “Initial Public Offerings for Smaller Businesses.” Mr. Green holds a Bachelor of Business Studies degree from the New South Wales Institute of Technology in Sydney, Australia. Georgia Theofan, Ph.D. Vice President, Clinical Development Dr. Theofan was appointed to the position of Vice President, Clinical Development in January 2003. Dr. Theofan has been with us since November 1995, and has been in the biotechnology industry since 1988. Since joining us, Dr. Theofan has been responsible for managing the operations of clinical trials in HIV, as well as cancer and autoimmune disease. She has over 40 publications in peer-reviewed scientific journals and is a co-inventor on nine patents. Dr. Theofan received a Ph.D. in Biology from the University of Notre Dame, and a Bachelor’s Degree in Biology from New York University. She also served as a post doctoral fellow at the University of Rochester in New York, and the University of California at both the Riverside and San Diego campuses. Peter Lowry Vice President, Manufacturing Mr. Lowry was promoted to Vice President, Manufacturing Operations in March 2006, and is currently responsible for all manufacturing and quality operations at the King of Prussia, Pennsylvania facility. Mr. Lowry joined us in June 1995, and has over 15 years experience in biopharmaceutical research, bioprocess development, and large scale GMP manufacturing. He served as Executive Director, Manufacturing Operations at our Pennsylvania facility from to August 2004 to March 2006. From April 2002 to August 2004, Mr. Lowry served as Senior Director, Operations, responsible for the manufacturing of all clinical trial products in support of our HIV program. From 1995 to April 2002, he headed quality control operations at both the Pennsylvania and California facilities. He currently serves on the Biotechnology Program Advisory Committee of Montgomery College. Before joining us, Mr. Lowry was head of Viral Biochemistry at Advanced Biotechnologies Inc. Mr. Lowry holds a bachelor’s degree in Biochemistry from Rutgers College. 