Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Future Results In this report, we have made various statements regarding current expectations or forecasts of future events. These statements are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of that term in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). Forward-looking statements are also made from time-to-time in press releases and in oral statements made by our officers. Forward-looking statements are identified by the words “estimate,” “project,” “anticipate,” “will continue,” “will likely result,” “expect,” “intend,” “believe,” “plan,” “predict” and similar expressions. The following statements are also considered forward-looking: · the commercial vehicle industry is in a cyclical downturn; · the availability of working capital and additional capital to Accuride; · continuation of operational improvements and sources of supply of raw materials; and · the lack of future supply disruption as a result of labor issues. Such forward-looking statements are based on assumptions and estimates, which although believed to be reasonable, may turn out to be incorrect. Therefore, undue reliance should not be placed upon these estimates and statements. These statements or estimates may not be realized and actual results may differ from those contemplated in these “forward-looking statements.” We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. You are advised to consult further disclosures we may make on related subjects in our filings with the SEC. Our expectations, beliefs, or projections may not be achieved or accomplished. In addition to other factors discussed in the report, some of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements include the following: Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Current economic conditions, including those related to the credit markets, may have a material adverse effect on our industry, business and results of operations. Recent global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions and recession in most major economies continuing into 2009. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the global housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for Western and emerging economies. In the second half of 2008, added concerns fueled by the U.S. government conservatorship of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Federal National Mortgage Association, the declared bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the U.S. government financial assistance to American International Group Inc., Citibank, Bank of America and other federal government interventions in the U.S. financial system lead to increased market uncertainty and instability in both U.S. and international capital and credit markets. These conditions, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have contributed to volatility of unprecedented levels. As a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide credit to businesses and consumers. These factors have lead to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers alike. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies and prolonged declines in business and consumer spending may have a material adverse effect on our industry, business, liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, including our ability to refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. We cannot accurately predict how prolonged this downturn may be, and this downturn may lead to further reduced consumer and commercial spending for the foreseeable future. 10 Table of Contents The commercial vehicle supply industry in which we operate has traditionally been highly competitive and cyclical, and, as a result, has experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions. Additionally, higher energy costs may negatively impact customer demand for our products. The current economic conditions have resulted in a severe downturn in the vehicle supply industry resulting in a significant decline in our sales volume. Any continued reduction in consumer and commercial spending may drive us and our competitors to reduce product pricing, which would have a negative impact on gross profit. Moreover, reduced revenues as a result of a softening of the economy may also reduce our working capital and interfere with our short term and long term strategies. In addition, the ongoing global financial and economic crisis could impact our business in a number of other ways, including: · uncertainty about current and future economic conditions may cause our customers and consumers in general to defer purchases; and · the inability of customers to obtain sufficient credit to finance purchases of our products and meet their payment obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. In light of existing economic conditions, certain of our customers may need us to extend additional credit commitments and a continuation of the current credit crisis could require us to make difficult decisions between increasing our level of customer financing or potentially losing sales to these customers. We currently maintain trade credit with certain of our key suppliers and utilize such credit to purchase significant amounts of raw materials and other supplies with payment terms. As conditions in the commercial vehicle supply industry have become less favorable, key suppliers have been seeking to shorten trade credit terms or to require cash in advance for payment. If a significant number of our key suppliers were to shorten or eliminate our trade credit, our inability to finance large purchases of our key supplies and raw materials would increase our costs and negatively impact our liquidity and cash flow. Furthermore, as a result of the tightening credit markets, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. If one or more of the financial institutions that support our existing credit facilities fails, we may not be able to find a replacement, which would negatively impact our ability to borrow under our credit facilities. In addition, if the current pressures on credit continue or worsen, we may not be able to refinance, if necessary, our outstanding debt when due, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. If as a result of the risks outlined above, our operating results falter and our cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates increase significantly, we could face liquidity problems that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We rely on, and make significant operational decisions based in part upon, industry data and forecasts primarily contained in industry forecast publications which may prove to be inaccurate. We continue to operate in a challenging economic environment and our ability to maintain liquidity and comply with our debt covenants may be affected by economic or other conditions that are beyond our control and which are difficult to predict. The 2009 production forecasts by ACT Publications for the significant commercial vehicle markets that we serve, are as follows: North American Class 8 145,000 North American Classes 5-7 131,000 U.S. Trailers 86,000 Based on the these production builds, we expect to comply with our debt covenants and believe that our liquidity will be sufficient to fund currently anticipated working capital, capital expenditures, and debt service requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, if our net sales are significantly less than expectations, given the volatility and the calendarization of the production builds as well as the other markets that we serve, or due to the challenging credit markets, we could violate our debt covenants or have insufficient liquidity. In the event of noncompliance, we would pursue an amendment or waiver. However, no assurances can be given that those forecasts will be accurate. If deterioration of the economy continues, this could cause additional financial and operational declines, which could lead to unanticipated reductions in our earnings and could result in future goodwill impairments. During fiscal 2008, we recorded goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charges of $277.0 million. Factors we consider important that could trigger a subsequent impairment review include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of the use of our assets or the strategy for our overall 11 Table of Contents business and significant negative industry or economic trends. If current economic conditions worsen causing decreased revenues and/or increased costs, we may have further material goodwill impairments. The failure to successfully implement our cost restructuring plan, or the lack of effect and impact of our cost restructuring plan once implemented, could adversely affect our business. In September and December 2008, we implemented various cost reduction initiatives in response to, among other things, significant downturns in our industry. These initiatives have included aligning our workforce in response to slowdowns in the industry and consolidating certain of our facilities. We have recorded pre-tax restructuring expenses to cover costs associated with our cost reduction initiatives. The combination of these and other actions we are taking is expected to reduce total fixed costs by approximately $25 to $30 million in fiscal 2009. We cannot assure you that these cost reduction initiatives will be successfully implemented, or will sufficiently help in returning us to profitability. Because our restructuring activities involve changes to many aspects of our business, the cost reductions could adversely impact productivity and sales to an extent we have not anticipated. Even if we fully execute and implement these activities and they generate the anticipated cost savings, there may be other unforeseeable and unintended factors or consequences that could adversely impact our profitability and business, including unintended employee attrition. We are dependent on sales to a small number of our major customers and on our status as standard supplier on certain truck platforms of each of our major customers. Sales, including aftermarket sales, to International Truck, PACCAR, Daimler Truck North America, and Volvo/Mack constituted approximately 16.0%, 15.1%, 14.1%, and 7.5%, respectively, of our 2008 net sales. No other customer accounted for more than 5% of our net sales for this period. The loss of any significant portion of sales to any of our major customers would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. We are a standard supplier of various components at a majority of our major customers, which results in recurring revenue as our standard components are installed on most trucks ordered from that platform, unless the end user specifically requests a different product, generally at an additional charge. The selection of one of our products as a standard component may also create a steady demand for that product in the aftermarket. We may not maintain our current standard supplier positions in the future, and may not become the standard supplier for additional truck platforms. The loss of a significant standard supplier position or a significant number of standard supplier positions with a major customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. We are continuing to engage in efforts intended to improve and expand our relations with each of PACCAR, Daimler Truck North America, International Truck, and Volvo/Mack. We have supported our position with these customers through direct and active contact with end users, trucking fleets, and dealers, and have located certain of our marketing personnel in offices near these customers and most of our other major customers. We may not be able to successfully maintain or improve our customer relationships so that these customers will continue to do business with us as they have in the past or be able to supply these customers or any of our other customers at current levels. The loss of a significant portion of our sales to Daimler Truck North America, PACCAR, International Truck, or Volvo/Mack could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, the delay or cancellation of material orders from, or problems at, PACCAR, Daimler Truck North America, International Truck, or Volvo/Mack, or any of our other major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. See “Item 1A—Risk Factors—Current economic conditions, including those related to the credit markets, may have a material adverse effect on our industry, business and results of operations.” Increased cost or reduced supply of raw materials and purchased components may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our business is subject to the risk of price increases and fluctuations and periodic delays in the delivery of raw materials and purchased components that are beyond our control. Our operations require substantial amounts of raw steel, aluminum, steel scrap, pig iron, electricity, coke, natural gas, sheet and formed steel, bearings, purchased components, fasteners, foam, fabrics, silicon sand, binders, sand additives, coated sand, and tube steel. Fluctuations in the delivery of these materials may be driven by the supply/demand relationship for material, factors particular to that material or governmental regulation for raw materials such as electricity and natural gas. In addition, if any of our suppliers seeks bankruptcy relief or otherwise cannot continue its business as anticipated or we cannot renew our supply contracts on favorable terms, the availability or price of raw materials could be adversely affected. Fluctuations in prices and/or availability of the raw materials or purchased components used by us, which at times may be more pronounced during periods of higher truck builds, may affect our profitability and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or 12 Table of Contents financial condition. In addition, as described above, a shortening or elimination of our trade credit by our suppliers may affect our liquidity and cash flow and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. See “Item 1A—Risk Factors—Current economic conditions, including those related to the credit markets, may have material adverse effect on our industry, business and results of operations.” We use substantial amounts of raw steel and aluminum in our production processes. Although raw steel is generally available from a number of sources, we have obtained favorable sourcing by negotiating and entering into high-volume contracts with third parties with terms ranging from one to two years. We obtain raw steel and aluminum from various third-party suppliers. We may not be successful in renewing our supply contracts on favorable terms or at all. A substantial interruption in the supply of raw steel or aluminum or inability to obtain a supply of raw steel or aluminum on commercially desirable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are not always able, and may not be able in the future, to pass on increases in the price of raw steel or aluminum to our customers. In particular, when raw material prices increase rapidly or to significantly higher than normal levels, we may not be able to pass price increases through to our customers on a timely basis, if at all, which could adversely affect our operating margins and cash flow. Any fluctuations in the price or availability of raw steel or aluminum may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Steel scrap and pig iron are also major raw materials used in our business to produce our wheel-end and industrial components. Steel scrap is derived from, among other sources, junked automobiles, industrial scrap, railroad cars, agricultural and heavy machinery, and demolition steel scrap from obsolete structures, containers and machines. Pig iron is a low-grade cast iron that is a product of smelting iron ore with coke and limestone in a blast furnace. The availability and price of steel scrap and pig iron are subject to market forces largely beyond our control, including North American and international demand for steel scrap and pig iron, freight costs, speculation and foreign exchange rates. Steel scrap and pig iron availability and price may also be subject to governmental regulation. We are not always able, and may not be able in the future, to pass on increases in the price of steel scrap and pig iron to our customers. In particular, when raw material prices increase rapidly or to significantly higher than normal levels, we may not be able to pass price increases through to our customers on a timely basis, if at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating margins and cash flow. Any fluctuations in the price or availability of steel scrap or pig iron may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. See “Item 1—Business—Raw Materials and Suppliers.” Our business is affected by the seasonality and regulatory nature of the industries and markets that we serve. Our operations are typically seasonal as a result of regular customer maintenance and model changeover shutdowns, which typically occur in the third and fourth quarter of each calendar year. This seasonality may result in decreased net sales and profitability during the third and fourth fiscal quarters. In addition, federal and state regulations (including engine emissions regulations, tariffs, import regulations and other taxes) may have a material adverse effect on our business and are beyond our control. For example, The North American truck industry experienced a significant decline in 2007 due to more stringent emissions standards that became effective in 2007. Cost reduction and quality improvement initiatives by OEMs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are primarily a components supplier to the heavy- and medium-duty truck industries, which are characterized by a small number of OEMs that are able to exert considerable pressure on components suppliers to reduce costs, improve quality and provide additional design and engineering capabilities. Given the fragmented nature of the industry, OEMs continue to demand and receive price reductions and measurable increases in quality through their use of competitive selection processes, rating programs, and various other arrangements. We may be unable to generate sufficient production cost savings in the future to offset such price reductions. OEMs may also seek to save costs by relocating production to countries with lower cost structures, which could in turn lead them to purchase components from local suppliers with lower production costs. Additionally, OEMs have generally required component suppliers to provide more design engineering input at earlier stages of the product development process, the costs of which have, in some cases, been absorbed by the suppliers. Future price reductions, increased quality standards and additional engineering capabilities required by OEMs may reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. We operate in highly competitive markets. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. Our products primarily compete on the basis of price, manufacturing and distribution capability, product design, product quality, product delivery and product service. Some of our competitors are 13 Table of Contents companies, or divisions, units or subsidiaries of companies that are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do. For these reasons, our products may not be able to compete successfully with the products of our competitors. In addition, our competitors may foresee the course of market development more accurately than we do, develop products that are superior to our products, have the ability to produce similar products at a lower cost than we can, or adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving regulatory, industry, or customer requirements. As a result, our products may not be able to compete successfully with their products. In addition, OEMs may expand their internal production of components, shift sourcing to other suppliers, or take other actions that could reduce the market for our products and have a negative impact on our business. We may encounter increased competition in the future from existing competitors or new competitors. We expect these competitive pressures in our markets to remain strong. See “Item 1—Business—Competition.” In addition, potential competition from foreign truck components suppliers, especially in the aftermarket, may lead to an increase in truck components imports into North America, adversely affecting our market share and negatively affecting our ability to compete. Foreign truck components suppliers may in the future increase their currently modest share of the markets for truck components in which we compete. Some of these foreign suppliers may be owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments, and their decisions with respect to production, sales and exports may be influenced more by political and economic policy considerations than by prevailing market conditions. In addition, foreign truck components suppliers may be subject to less restrictive regulatory and environmental regimes that could provide them with a cost advantage relative to North American suppliers. Therefore, there is a risk that some foreign suppliers may increase their sales of truck components in North American markets despite decreasing profit margins or losses. If future trade cases do not provide relief from such potential trade practices, U.S. protective trade laws are weakened or international demand for trucks and/or truck components decreases, an increase of truck component imports into the United States may occur, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. We face exposure to foreign business and operational risks including foreign exchange rate fluctuations and if we were to experience a substantial fluctuation, our profitability may change. In the normal course of doing business, we are exposed to risks associated with changes in foreign exchange rates, particularly with respect to the Canadian dollar. From time to time, we use forward foreign exchange contracts, and other derivative instruments, to help offset the impact of the variability in exchange rates on our operations, cash flows, assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2008, the notional amount of open foreign exchange forward contracts was $21.8 million. Factors that could further impact the risks associated with changes in foreign exchange rates include the accuracy of our sales estimates, volatility of currency markets and the cost and availability of derivative instruments. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk —Foreign Currency Risk.” In addition, changes in the laws or governmental policies in the countries in which we operate could affect our business in such countries and our results of operations. We may not be able to continue to meet our customers’ demands for our products and services. We must continue to meet our customers’ demand for our products and services. However, we may not be successful in doing so. If our customers’ demand for our products and/or services exceeds our ability to meet that demand, we may be unable to continue to provide our customers with the products and/or services they require to meet their business needs. Factors that could result in our inability to meet customer demands include an unforeseen spike in demand for our products and/or services, a failure by one or more of our suppliers to supply us with the raw materials and other resources that we need to operate our business effectively or poor management of our company or one or more divisions or units of our company, among other factors. Our ability to provide our customers with products and services in a reliable and timely manner, in the quantity and quality desired and with a high level of customer service, may be severely diminished as a result. If this happens, we may lose some or all of our customers to one or more of our competitors, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. In addition, it is important that we continue to meet our customers’ demands in the truck components industry for product innovation, improvement and enhancement, including the continued development of new-generation products, design improvements and innovations that improve the quality and efficiency of our products. Developing product innovations for the truck components industry has been and will continue to be a significant part of our strategy. However, such development will require us to continue to invest in research and development and sales and marketing. In the future, we may not have sufficient resources to make such necessary investments, or we may be unable to make the technological advances necessary to carry out product innovations sufficient to meet our customers’ demands. We are also subject to the risks generally associated with product development, including lack of market acceptance, delays in product development and failure of products to operate properly. We may, as a result of these factors, be unable to meaningfully focus on product innovation as a strategy and may therefore be unable to meet our customers’ demand for product innovation. 14 Table of Contents Equipment failures, delays in deliveries or catastrophic loss at any of our facilities could lead to production or service curtailments or shutdowns. We manufacture our products at 19 facilities and provide logistical services at our just-in-time sequencing facilities in the United States. An interruption in production or service capabilities at any of these facilities as a result of equipment failure or other reasons could result in our inability to produce our products, which would reduce our net sales and earnings for the affected period. In the event of a stoppage in production at any of our facilities, even if only temporary, or if we experience delays as a result of events that are beyond our control, delivery times to our customers could be severely affected. Any significant delay in deliveries to our customers could lead to increased returns or cancellations and cause us to lose future sales. Our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. We may experience plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failure, delays in deliveries or catastrophic loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may incur potential product liability, warranty and product recall costs. We are subject to the risk of exposure to product liability, warranty and product recall claims in the event any of our products results in property damage, personal injury or death, or does not conform to specifications. We may not be able to continue to maintain suitable and adequate insurance in excess of our self-insured amounts on acceptable terms that will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. In addition, if any of our products proves to be defective, we may be required to participate in a recall involving such products. A successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage, if any, or a requirement to participate in any product recall, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Work stoppages or other labor issues at our facilities or at our customers’ facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations. As of December 31, 2008, unions represented approximately 49% of our workforce. As a result, we are subject to the risk of work stoppages and other labor relations matters. Any prolonged strike or other work stoppage at any one of our principal unionized facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We have collective bargaining agreements with different unions at various facilities. These collective bargaining agreements expire at various times over the next few years, with the exception of our union contract at our Monterrey, Mexico facility, which expires on an annual basis. The 2009 negotiations in Monterrey were successfully completed prior to the expiration of our union contract. In 2009, we have contracts expiring at our Brillion, Cuyahoga Falls, Elkhart Plant 2, and London, Ontario facilities. Based on the consolidation of the Cuyahoga Falls operations into our Erie plant, we will be ceasing operations performed by the collective bargaining unit at the Cuyahoga Falls facility and do not anticipate negotiating for a new contract at that location. Any failure by us to reach a new agreement upon expiration of other union contracts may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. In addition, if any of our customers experience a material work stoppage, that customer may halt or limit the purchase of our products. This could cause us to shut down production facilities relating to these products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are subject to a number of environmental rules and regulations that may require us to make substantial expenditures. Our operations, facilities, and properties are subject to extensive and evolving laws and regulations pertaining to air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and wastes, the investigation and remediation of contamination, and otherwise relating to health, safety, and the protection of the environment and natural resources. As a result, we are involved from time to time in administrative or legal proceedings relating to environmental, health and safety matters, and have in the past incurred and will continue to incur capital costs and other expenditures relating to such matters. In addition to environmental laws that regulate our subsidiaries’ ongoing operations, our subsidiaries are also subject to environmental remediation liability. Under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), and analogous state laws, our subsidiaries may be liable as a result of the release or threatened release of hazardous materials into the environment. Our subsidiaries are currently involved in several matters relating to the investigation and/or remediation of locations where they have arranged for the disposal of foundry and other wastes. Such matters include situations in which we have been named or are believed to be Potentially Responsible Parties as defined under CERCLA or state or local laws in connection with the contamination of these sites. Additionally, environmental remediation may be required to address soil and groundwater contamination identified at certain facilities. 15 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2008, we had an environmental reserve of approximately $1.5 million, related primarily to our foundry operations. This reserve is based on current cost estimates and does not reduce estimated expenditures to net present value, but does take into account the benefit of a contractual indemnity given to us by a prior owner of our wheel-end subsidiary. The failure of the indemnitor to fulfill its obligations could result in future costs that may be material. Any cash expenditures required by us or our subsidiaries to comply with applicable environmental laws and/or to pay for any remediation efforts will not be reduced or otherwise affected by the existence of the environmental reserve. Our environmental reserve may not be adequate to cover our future costs related to the sites associated with the environmental reserve, and any additional costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The discovery of additional sites, the modification of existing or the promulgation of new laws or regulations, more vigorous enforcement by regulators, the imposition of joint and several liability under CERCLA or analogous state laws, or other unanticipated events could result in a material adverse effect. The final Iron and Steel Foundry NESHAP was developed pursuant to Section 112(d) of the Clean Air Act and requires all major sources of hazardous air pollutants to install controls representative of maximum achievable control technology. We believe that our foundry operations are in compliance with the applicable requirements of the Iron and Steel Foundry NESHAP. However, the imposition of liability under Iron Steel Foundry NESHAP could result in a material adverse effect. See “Item 1—Business—Environmental Matters.” We might fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, or third parties might assert that our technologies infringe on their intellectual property. The protection of our intellectual property is important to our business. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, patents, and trade secrets to provide protection in this regard, but this protection might be inadequate. For example, our pending or future trademark, copyright, and patent applications might not be approved or, if allowed, they might not be of sufficient strength or scope. Conversely, third parties might assert that our technologies or other intellectual property infringe on their proprietary rights. Any intellectual property related litigation, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts and, whether or not we are ultimately successful, the litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. See “Item 1—Business—Intellectual Property.” Litigation against us could be costly and time consuming to defend. We are regularly subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, such as workers’ compensation claims, OSHA investigations, employment disputes, unfair labor practice charges, customer and supplier disputes, and product liability claims arising out of the conduct of our business. Litigation may result in substantial costs and may divert management’s attention and resources from the operation of our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. If we fail to retain our executive officers, our business could be harmed. Our success largely depends on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers. Their skills, experience and industry contacts significantly contribute to the success of our business and our results of operations. The loss of any one of them, in particular our interim President and Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. All of our executive officers are at will, but each of them has a severance agreement, as discussed directly below, other than our current interim President and chief Executive Officer. In addition, our future success and profitability will also depend, in part, upon our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel throughout our company, including a permanent Chief Executive Officer and a new Chief Financial Officer, to replace our current Chief Financial Officer that will depart in mid-April. We have entered into typical severance arrangements with certain of our senior management employees, which may result in certain costs associated with strategic alternatives. Severance and retention agreements with certain senior management employees provide that the participating executive is entitled to a regular severance payment if the Company terminates the participating executive’s employment without “cause” or if the participating executive terminates his or her employment with the Company for “good reason” (as these terms are defined in the agreement) at any time other than during a “Protection Period.” The Protection Period begins on the date on which a “change in control” (as defined in the agreement) occurs and ends 18 months after a “change in control.” The regular severance benefit is equal to the participating executive’s base salary for one year. See “Item 10—Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.” 16 Table of Contents In addition, each participating executive is entitled to a change in control severance benefit if his or her employment with the Company is terminated during the Protection Period either by the participating executive for “good reason” or by the Company without “cause.” The change in control severance benefits for Tier II executives (Messrs. Armstrong, Gulda, Maniatis, Schomer and Wright) consist of a payment equal to 200% of the executive’s salary plus 200% of the greater of (i) the annualized incentive compensation to which the executive would be entitled as of the date on which the change of control occurs or (ii) the average incentive compensation award over the three years prior to termination. The change in control severance benefits for Tier III executives (other key executives) consist of a payment equal to 100% of the executive’s salary and 100% of the greater of (i) the annualized incentive compensation to which the executive would be entitled as of the date on which the change of control occurs or (ii) the average incentive compensation award over the three years prior to termination. If the participating executive’s termination occurs during the Protection Period, the severance and retention agreement also provides for the continuance of certain other benefits, including reimbursement for forfeitures under qualified plans and continued health, disability, accident and dental insurance coverage for the lesser of 18 months (or 12 months in the case of Tier III executives) from the date of termination or the date on which the executive receives such benefits from a subsequent employer. Neither the regular severance benefit nor the change in control severance benefit is payable if the Company terminates the participating executive’s employment for “cause,” if the executive voluntarily terminates his or her employment without “good reason” or if the executive’s employment is terminated as a result of disability or death. Any payments to which the participating executive may be entitled under the agreement will be reduced by the full amount of any payments to which the executive may be entitled due to termination under any other severance policy offered by the Company. These agreements would make it costly for us to terminate certain of our senior management employees and such costs may also discourage potential acquisition proposals, which may negatively affect our stock price. Our products may be rendered obsolete or less attractive by changes in regulatory, legislative or industry requirements. Changes in regulatory, legislative or industry requirements may render certain of our products obsolete or less attractive. Our ability to anticipate changes in these requirements, especially changes in regulatory standards, will be a significant factor in our ability to remain competitive. We may not be able to comply in the future with new regulatory, legislative and/or industrial standards that may be necessary for us to remain competitive or that certain of our products will not, as a result, become obsolete or less attractive to our customers. Our strategic initiatives may be unsuccessful, may take longer than anticipated, or may result in unanticipated costs. Future strategic initiatives could include divestitures, acquisitions, and restructurings, the success and timing of which will depend on various factors. Many of these factors are not in our control. In addition, the ultimate benefit of any acquisition would depend on the successful integration of the acquired entity or assets into our existing business. Failure to successfully identify, complete, and/or integrate future strategic initiatives could affect our results of operations. Other Risks Related to Our Business Our substantial leverage and significant debt service obligations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our ability to fulfill our obligations and make it more difficult for us to fund our operations. At December 31, 2008, our total indebtedness was $651.1 million. Our substantial level of indebtedness could have important negative consequences to us, including: · We may have difficulty satisfying our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; · We may have difficulty obtaining financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; · We will need to use a substantial portion of our available cash flow to pay interest and principal on our debt, which will reduce the amount of money available to finance our operations and other business activities; · Our debt level increases our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions; · Our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in our industry in general; · Our leverage could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and · Our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt instruments which, among 17 Table of Contents other things, require us to maintain specified financial ratios and limit our ability to incur debt and sell assets, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects; and · Our debt level and debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry. In addition, certain of our borrowings are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increasing interest rates. As of December 31, 2008, the carrying value of our total debt was $651.1 million, of which $376.2 million, or approximately 58%, was subject to variable interest rates. As of December 31, 2008, we were party to an interest rate swap agreement. The agreement was established in December 2007 and has terms with the counterparty, at specified intervals, the difference between 3.81% from March 2008 through March 2010, and the variable rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the notional principal amount. The notional principal amounts under the terms are $200 million from March 2008 through March 2009, $150 million from March 2009 through September 2009 and $125 million from September 2009 through March 2010. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same. See “Item 6—Selected Consolidated Financial Data.” Despite our substantial leverage, we and our subsidiaries will be able to incur more indebtedness. This could further exacerbate the risk immediately described above, including our ability to service our indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future. Although our senior credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, such restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances indebtedness incurred in compliance with such restrictions could be substantial. For example, we may incur additional debt to, among other things, finance future acquisitions, expand through internal growth, fund our working capital needs, comply with regulatory requirements, respond to competition or for general financial reasons alone. As of December 31, 2008, the revolving credit facility under our senior credit facility provides for additional borrowings of up to $22.4 million, which does not consider $16.6 million of letters of credit, under our U.S. facility. Our Canadian revolving credit facility was fully drawn down at December 31, 2008. To the extent new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the risks described above would increase. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations. Our currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements may not be realized on schedule. Also, future borrowings may not be available to us under our credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional equity capital or refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial cash flow problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We are unable to predict the timing of such asset sales or the proceeds which we could realize from such sales and that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our senior credit facilities and senior subordinated notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We are subject to a number of restrictive covenants, which, if breached, may restrict our business and financing activities. Our senior credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes impose, and the terms of any future indebtedness may impose, operating and other restrictions on us. Such restrictions will affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to: · incur additional debt; · pay dividends and make distributions; · issue stock of subsidiaries; 18 Table of Contents · make certain investments; · repurchase stock; · create liens; · enter into affiliate transactions; · enter into sale-leaseback transactions; · merge or consolidate; and · transfer and sell assets. In addition, our senior credit facilities include other more restrictive covenants and prohibit us from prepaying our other indebtedness, including our senior subordinated notes, while borrowings under our senior credit facilities are outstanding. Our senior credit facilities also require us to achieve certain financial and operating results and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. If commercial vehicle production declines below industry forecasts, as described in “Item 1A—Risk Factors—We rely on, and make significant operational decisions based in part upon, industry data and forecasts primarily contained in industry forecast publications which may prove to be inaccurate,” we may be unable to comply with the restrictions contained in the credit facilities, and the lenders could: · declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable; · require us to apply all of our available cash to repay the borrowings; or · prevent us from making debt service payments on the senior subordinated notes. Any of the above listed items would result in an event of default under our senior subordinated notes. If we were unable to repay or otherwise refinance these borrowings when due, our lenders could sell the collateral securing our senior credit facilities, which constitutes substantially all of our and our subsidiaries’ assets. Although holders of our senior subordinated notes could accelerate the notes upon the acceleration of the obligations under our credit facilities, we may not have sufficient assets remaining after we have paid all the borrowings under our senior credit facilities, and any other senior debt, to repay the senior subordinated notes. Sun Capital has significant influence on our major corporate decisions and could take actions that could be adverse to you. On February 4, 2009, an affiliate of Sun Capital Securities Group, LLC (“Sun Capital”) holding approximately $70 million principal amount of the indebtedness outstanding under our senior credit facilities completed a transaction pursuant to which it acquired a warrant exercisable for 25 percent of our fully-diluted common stock (the “Warrant”). See “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Credit Agreement Amendment.” Sun Capital also currently owns approximately 9.7 percent of our outstanding common stock. In connection with this transaction, we expanded the Board of Directors to 12 members and granted Sun Capital the right to elect five directors (the “Sun Capital Directors”) and nominate one independent director, amended our bylaws to require approval of two thirds of the Board of Directors for certain corporate actions, and issued a single share of a new class of preferred stock (the “Preferred Share”) to Sun Capital, which gives Sun Capital the right to approve certain corporate actions and to vote its 25% interest in our common stock held through the Warrant so long as Sun Capital maintains 10 percent ownership of our common stock (calculated on a fully-diluted basis). As a result, Sun Capital has significant influence over us, our management and our policies, including the ability to block certain corporate actions that require the approval of two thirds of the Board of the Directors or the approval of the holder of the Preferred Share, and the ability to elect and remove the Sun Capital Directors. As the holder of approximately 32.3% of our fully-diluted common stock (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrant), Sun Capital also has significant influence on all matters requiring stockholder approval. If Sun Capital sells or transfers its ownership stake to one person, such person would also have the same ability to influence us. The ability of Sun Capital to influence certain of our major corporate decisions may harm the market price for our common stock by delaying, deferring or preventing transactions that are in the best interests of all shareholders or discouraging third-party investors. 19 Table of Contents The issuance of common stock to Sun Capital upon exercise of the Warrant or the sale of our common stock by Sun Capital could lower the market price of our common stock. Sun Capital has the right to acquire 25% of the fully-diluted common stock of the Company for $.01 per share pursuant to the Warrant issued to Sun Capital on February 4, 2009. These shares of common stock have been reserved by the Board of Directors for issuance to Sun Capital and Sun Capital has up to 10 years to exercise the Warrant. The issuance of these shares upon exercise of the Warrant will decrease the ownership percentage of current outstanding shareholders and may result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Additionally, the offer, sale, disposition or consummation of other such transactions involving substantial amounts of our common stock held by Sun Capital or other significant shareholders could result in a decrease of the market price of our common stock, particularly if such offers, sales, dispositions or transactions occur simultaneously or relatively close in time. If a person unaffiliated with us were to acquire a substantial amount of our common stock, a change of control could occur. If a person is able to acquire a substantial amount of our common stock, including by purchase of Sun Capital’s current approximate 32.3% holding of our fully-diluted common stock (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrant), a change of control could be triggered under Delaware law or under our senior credit facilities. If a change of control under our senior credit facilities was to occur, we would need to obtain a waiver from our lenders or amend the senior credit facilities. If such a waiver or amendment were not granted, the lenders could accelerate the debt outstanding under the senior credit facilities. If we were unable to obtain a new credit facility or otherwise refinance this debt, our liquidity and capital resources would be significantly limited, and our business operations could be materially and adversely impacted. Additionally, if Sun Capital were to acquire additional shares of our Common Stock, a change of control under Delaware law could be triggered. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 20 Table of Contents 