ITEM 1A. Risk Factors ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments ITEM 2. Properties ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II ITEM 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures ITEM 9B. Other Information PART III ITEM 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant ITEM 11. Executive Compensation ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Signatures Certifications PART I Item 1. BUSINESS INTRODUCTION-FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS - --------------------------------------- Except for statements of historical fact, the statements herein are forward- looking and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made. These include, among others, uncertainty associated with progress in research and development programs, timely development, approval, launch and acceptance of new products, establishment of new corporate alliances and other factors described below under the headings "APP Technology", "Products", "Marketing", "Government Regulation", "Patents and Trade Secrets" and "Competition". In addition, such risks and uncertainties also include the matters discussed under "Risk Factors" below and under Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 below. COMPANY OVERVIEW - ---------------- In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the "Company", "A.P. Pharma", "APP", "we", "us", and "our", refer to A.P. Pharma, Inc. We are a specialty pharmaceutical company focused on the development of pharmaceutical products utilizing our proprietary polymer-based drug delivery systems. Our focus is the development and commercialization of bioerodible injectable and implantable systems under the trade name Biochronomer(TM). Our business strategy is twofold: - - to develop selected proprietary products, funding them through the preliminary phases of regulatory review before entering into partnerships to share costs and to earn a share of future profits; and - - to license our proprietary technologies to corporate partners after the successful completion of reimbursed feasibility studies to earn research and development fees, licensing fees, milestone payments and royalties. Initial targeted areas of application for our drug delivery technologies include the prevention of both acute and delayed chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV); post-surgical and chronic pain management; and anti- inflammatories. Our product development programs have been funded by the sale of common stock in June 2004, royalties from topical products previously marketed by pharmaceutical partners (Retin-A Micro(R) and Carac(R)), proceeds from the divestitures of our cosmeceutical and analytical standards product lines and by fees we received from collaborative partners. In addition, in January 2006, we sold the rights to royalties from sales of Retin-A Micro and Carac. Proceeds of $25 million were received upon the closing of the transaction and will be used primarily to fund pivotal clinical development of APF530, our drug candidate for the prevention of both acute and delayed chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting. The remaining $5 million will be paid based on the satisfaction of certain predetermined milestones over the next four years. Bioerodible polymers are of increasing interest within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology community for use in both drug delivery applications and as devices. We have made substantial progress in developing bioerodible polymers that potentially represent a significant improvement over existing drug delivery systems. A major point of difference with other delivery systems is our polymer's versatility and controlled erosion mechanism. Over one hundred in vivo and in vitro studies have been completed to advance understanding of this innovative drug delivery technology. Studies demonstrate complete and controlled bioerosion of the polymers. Erosion times can be varied from hours to days, weeks or months and mechanical properties can be adjusted to produce materials as diverse as injectable gels, coatings, strands, wafers, films or microspheres. Importantly, toxicology and clinical data indicate that the technology is safe for use in humans. In addition, the manufacturing is reproducible and the polymers are stable, provided they are stored under appropriate anhydrous conditions. In studies, the polymers were observed to erode to completion and, once the drug was released, no polymer remained. In addition, the polymers bioerode with low acidity, thus potentially allowing the delivery of sensitive proteins and DNA/RNAI. During 2005, we completed a Phase 2 human clinical trial using APF530, our lead product candidate for the prevention of both acute and delayed chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting in patients undergoing both moderately and highly emetogenic chemotherapy for cancer. APF530 contains the anti-nausea drug granisetron formulated with the Company's proprietary Biochronomer bioerodible drug delivery system. The Phase 2 study, which was completed in September 2005, achieved the primary endpoints, which included an evaluation of safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics. In addition, efficacy endpoints were evaluated relating to emetic events and the use of rescue medication. Our second Biochronomer product candidate is APF112 for the treatment of post-surgical pain. APF112 incorporates the well-known analgesic mepivacaine in our Biochronomer system. It is designed to provide 24 to 36 hours of post-surgical pain relief and to minimize the use of morphine-like drugs (opioids) which are used extensively in post-surgical pain management. Opioids are associated with a wide range of side effects, such as nausea, sedation, dizziness, constipation, vomiting, urinary retention, and in some situations, life-threatening respiratory depression. We completed a Phase 2 human clinical trial for APF112 in 2004, involving a total of approximately 100 patients undergoing surgery for repair of inguinal hernia. A protocol for a further Phase 2 trial using APF112 has been developed, and we are exploring corporate partnering opportunities before proceeding with this in order to focus our limited resources on APF530. We earned royalties on two pharmaceutical products: Retin-A Micro which was licensed to Ortho Neutrogena, a member of the Johnson & Johnson family of companies, and Carac, which was licensed to Dermik Laboratories, a sanofi- aventis company. In January 2006, we sold the rights to the royalties on sales of these products effective October 1, 2005 to an affiliate of the Paul Royalty Fund for $25 million on closing and up to $5 million over the next four years, based on the satisfaction of certain predetermined milestones. Until July 2000, we engaged in the development, manufacturing, and out- licensing of the aforementioned topical pharmaceutical products as well as a variety of cosmeceutical and toiletry products. In July 2000, we sold our cosmeceutical and toiletry product lines, together with certain technology rights to topical pharmaceuticals, to RP Scherer, a subsidiary of Cardinal Health. Under the sale agreement, we retained the rights to our topical prescription products, which were marketed by our corporate partners, Johnson & Johnson and sanofi-aventis, and on which we received royalties. In February 2003, we sold the assets of our wholly-owned subsidiary, APS Analytical Standards, Inc., to GFS Chemicals of Columbus, Ohio, for $2.1 million in cash and the right to receive royalties for the five years following the sale. The Company, founded in February 1983 as a California corporation under the name AMCO Polymerics, Inc., changed its name to Advanced Polymer Systems, Inc. in 1984 and was reincorporated in Delaware in 1987. Our name was changed to A.P. Pharma, Inc. in May 2001 to reflect the new pharmaceutical focus of the Company. APP TECHNOLOGY - -------------- We have made significant investment and progress in the development of bioerodible drug delivery systems. Specifically, we have developed two families of polymers, each with unique attributes. The first family is known collectively as poly(ortho esters) under the trade name Biochronomer; polymers in the second family are known collectively as block copolymers of poly(ortho esters) and poly(ethylene glycol) under the trade name Bioerodimer(TM). The two polymer families are covered by US patent 5,968,543, issued October 19, 1999 and US patent 5,939,453, issued August 17, 1999. Both are broad composition of matter patents. A number of other patents have been issued and several more patent applications have been filed. The Biochronomer polymer is a poly(ortho ester) whose production is highly reproducible and multi-kilo quantities of polymer have been produced according to Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP). Current product development work takes advantage of the versatility of these materials, and is exemplified by forms that range from injectable gels into which drugs can be incorporated by a simple mixing procedure, to solid devices that can be fabricated at temperatures low enough to allow the incorporation of materials such as proteins that require mild fabrication conditions. Our primary focus has been on advancing our Biochronomer technology, which is designed to release drugs at selected implantation sites such as under the skin, at the site of a surgical procedure, in joints, in the eye, or in muscle tissue. Key benefits of this technology include the ability to fabricate the poly(ortho ester) polymers into a variety of drug delivery forms as diverse as coatings, wafers, strands, microspheres and injectable gels to enable various means of administration into the body. PRODUCTS - -------- Ethical Pharmaceutical Products - ------------------------------- We define ethical pharmaceutical products as prescription products that are promoted primarily through the medical profession. We are developing pharmaceutical product candidates that will require marketing clearance from the FDA before they can be sold in the United States. We believe that the benefits offered by our delivery systems will create valuable product differentiation and commercial advantages in large, profitable markets. Results from various preclinical and clinical studies confirm that this technology offers the potential to maintain or improve therapeutic efficacy and to reduce adverse drug side effects. Products Under Development - -------------------------- Our efforts in pharmaceutical markets include applications using our Biochronomer technology that are under development, as noted below. Our lead product candidate, APF530, which contains the anti-nausea drug granisetron formulated with the Company's proprietary Biochronomer bioerodible drug delivery system is designed to prevent both acute and delayed chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting in patients undergoing either moderately or highly emetogenic chemotherapy for cancer. During 2005, we completed a Phase 2 human clinical trial using APF530. The Phase 2 study, which was completed in September 2005, achieved the primary endpoints, which included an evaluation of safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics. In addition, efficacy endpoints were evaluated relating to emetic events and the use of rescue medication. There were no serious adverse events attributed to the APF530 formulation, and injections of APF530 were well tolerated. The pharmacokinetic evaluation of granisetron in all three dose groups clearly indicated that measurable plasma levels of granisetron were evident over a seven day period. Analysis of the open label efficacy data from the Phase 2 patient groups receiving either moderately or highly emetogenic chemotherapy indicated that the percentage of complete responders in the moderately emetogenic group was 90% in the acute phase and 78% in the delayed phase. In the group receiving highly emetogenic chemotherapy, the percentage of complete responders was 81% in the acute phase and 80% in the delayed phase. "Complete response" was defined as no emetic episodes and no use of rescue medication. Based on the data generated from the Phase 2 study, two dose levels of APF530 have been selected for a Phase 3 study, which is planned to begin in the second quarter of 2006. The proposed Phase 3 trial will compare the safety and efficacy of APF530 with palonosetron, currently marketed under the brand Aloxi(R), and will include approximately 1,200 patients comprised of two groups, each with roughly equal number of those receiving either moderately or highly emetogenic chemotherapeutic agents. In each group, three sets of approximately 200 patients will be treated with APF530 containing 5 milligrams or 10 milligrams of granisetron, compared with the currently approved dose of palonosetron. The study's primary endpoint is to establish the efficacy of APF530 for the prevention of acute onset (first 24 hours) and delayed onset (4-5 days) CINV in patients receiving either moderately or highly emetogenic chemotherapy. No other 5HT3 antagonist is currently approved for the prevention of both acute and delayed CINV for both moderately and highly emetogenic chemotherapy. The first product candidate to incorporate the Biochronomer delivery system was APF112, which targets the management of pain in patients following surgery. The treatment goal is to provide 24 to 36 hours of localized post- surgical pain relief by delivering the drug mepivacaine directly to the surgical site. Mepivacaine is a well-known drug for localized pain relief, and it has an extensive safety profile. APF112 is designed to prolong the anesthetic effect of mepivacaine and thus to minimize or eliminate the use of opioids (morphine-like drugs) which are currently used in the majority of surgical procedures as a means of managing post-operative pain despite unpleasant side effects - nausea, disorientation, sedation, constipation, vomiting, urinary retention and, in some situations, life-threatening respiratory depression. If efficacy in treating post-surgical pain can be demonstrated, we believe that there will be substantial potential for this product, as there are approximately 20 million surgical procedures performed annually in the U.S. for which the product could potentially be utilized. Phase 2 clinical studies were conducted in surgeries for inguinal hernia repair during 2004 and although the safety and tolerability of APF112 were very good, the efficacy results were difficult to interpret with no significant difference between the two formulations of APF112 and the current standard of care. A second Phase 2 study protocol has been developed which, with the financial support of a corporate partner, would evaluate a combination therapy using bupivacaine for immediate pain relief following surgery and APF112 for longer-term pain relief. Other Products - -------------- Analytical Standards. We initially developed microspheres (precursors to the Microsponge system) for use as a testing standard for gauging the purity of municipal drinking water. In February 2003, we announced the sale of the assets of this subsidiary to GFS Chemicals, Inc. of Columbus, Ohio for $2.1 million in cash and the right to receive royalties for five years following the sale at rates ranging from 5% to 15% of sales of analytical standards products. MARKETING - --------- A key part of our business strategy is to form collaborations with pharmaceutical partners. In general, we grant limited marketing exclusivity in defined markets for defined periods to our partners. However, after development is completed and a partner commercializes a formulated product utilizing our delivery systems, we can exert only limited influence over the manner and extent of our partner's marketing efforts. Our key marketing relationships concluded to-date have involved only the Microsponge delivery system for prescription products and were as follows: Johnson & Johnson Inc. In May 1992, we entered into a development and license agreement with Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical Corporation, (a subsidiary of J&J ("Ortho")) related to tretinoin-based products incorporating our Microsponge technology. The license fees provided Ortho with exclusive distribution or license rights for all Ortho tretinoin products utilizing our Microsponge system through 2016. Dermik. In March 1992, we restructured our 1989 joint venture agreement with Dermik, a sanofi-aventis company. As part of the agreement sanofi-aventis received certain exclusive marketing rights for the U.S. Product applications included a 5-FU treatment for actinic keratoses (precancerous skin lesions). In 2000 Dermik received FDA marketing clearance for the product, which was launched under the trade name Carac. Dermik's exclusivity relating to Carac will continue as long as annual minimum royalty payments are made, governed by the life of the applicable patents until 2021. In January 2006, we sold the rights to the royalties on sales of these products effective October 1, 2005 to an affiliate of the Paul Royalty Fund for $25 million on closing and up to $5 million over the next four years, based on the satisfaction of certain predetermined milestones. GOVERNMENT REGULATION - --------------------- Ethical Products - ---------------- In order to clinically test, produce and sell products for human therapeutic use, mandatory procedures and safety evaluations established by the FDA and comparable agencies in foreign countries must be followed. The procedure for seeking and obtaining the required governmental clearances for a new therapeutic product includes preclinical animal testing to determine safety and efficacy, followed by human clinical testing. This can take many years and require substantial expenditures. In the case of third party agreements, we expect that our corporate partners will partially fund the testing and the approval process with guidance from us. We intend to seek the necessary regulatory approvals for our proprietary products as they are being developed. PATENTS AND TRADE SECRETS - ------------------------- As part of our strategy to protect our current products and to provide a foundation for future products, we have filed a number of United States patent applications on inventions relating to the composition of a variety of polymers, specific products, product groups, and processing technology. We have also filed foreign patent applications on our polymer technology with the European Union, Japan, Australia, South Africa, Canada, Korea and Taiwan. We have a total of 19 issued United States patents and an additional 108 issued foreign patents. Currently, we have 42 pending patent applications worldwide. The patents on the bioerodible systems expire between January 2016 and November 2021. Although we believe the bases for these patents and patent applications are sound, they are untested, and there is no assurance that they will not be successfully challenged. There can be no assurance that any patent previously issued will be of commercial value, that any patent applications will result in issued patents of commercial value, or that our technology will not be held to infringe patents held by others. We rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how to protect certain aspects of our production technologies. Our employees, consultants, advisors and corporate partners have entered into confidentiality agreements with us. These agreements, however, may not necessarily provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary know-how in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. In addition, others may obtain access to, or independently develop, these trade secrets or know-how. COMPETITION - ----------- In the development of bioerodible poly(ortho esters) for implantation applications, there is competition from a number of other bioerodible systems, especially polymers based on lactic and glycolic acid and to a lesser extent, polyanhydrides. We believe that our proprietary bioerodible Biochronomer polymers have a number of important advantages. Among these are ease of manufacturing, the ability to control both erosion times and mechanical properties, and the simultaneous drug delivery and erosion process, resulting in complete polymer disappearance when all the drug has been delivered. Also, the polymer bioerodes with low acidity, thus potentially allowing the delivery of sensitive proteins and DNA. HUMAN RESOURCES - --------------- As of February 28, 2006, we had 36 full-time employees, 5 of whom hold PhDs. There were 28 employees engaged in research and development and quality control, and 8 working in finance, business development, human resources and administration. We consider our relations with employees to be good. None of our employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS - ------------ Our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. You should carefully consider these risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K. Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. OUR BIOERODIBLE DRUG DELIVERY SYSTEM BUSINESS IS AT AN EARLY STAGE OF DEVELOPMENT. Our bioerodible drug delivery system business is at an early stage of development. Our ability to produce bioerodible drug delivery systems that progress to and through clinical trials is subject to, among other things: - success with our research and development efforts; - selection of appropriate therapeutic compounds for delivery; - the required regulatory approval. Successful development of delivery systems will require significant preclinical and clinical testing prior to regulatory approval in the United States and elsewhere. In addition, we will need to determine whether any potential products can be manufactured in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost. Our efforts may not result in a product that can be marketed. Because of the significant scientific, regulatory and commercial milestones that must be reached for any of our research programs to be successful, any program may be abandoned, even after significant resources have been expended. WE WILL NEED ADDITIONAL CAPITAL TO CONDUCT OUR OPERATIONS AND TO DEVELOP OUR PRODUCTS AND OUR ABILITY TO OBTAIN THE NECESSARY FUNDING ON FAVORABLE TERMS IN THE FUTURE IS UNCERTAIN. We will require additional capital resources in order to conduct our operations and develop our products. While we estimate that our existing capital resources and interest income will be sufficient to fund our current level of operations for at least the next year based on current business plans, we cannot guarantee that this will be the case. The timing and degree of any future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: - scientific progress in our research and development programs; - the magnitude and scope of our research and development programs; - our ability to establish and maintain strategic collaborations or partnerships for research, development, clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing; - our progress with preclinical and clinical trials; - the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; - the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims. We intend to acquire additional funding through strategic collaborations, in the form of license fees, research and development fees and milestone payments. In the event that additional funds are obtained through arrangements with collaborative partners, these arrangements may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to develop and commercialize ourselves. If sufficient funding is not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO RECRUIT AND RETAIN SKILLED EMPLOYEES, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ACHIEVE OUR OBJECTIVES. Retaining our current employees and recruiting qualified scientific personnel to perform future research and development work will be critical to our success. Competition is intense for experienced scientists, and we may not be able to recruit or retain sufficient skilled personnel to allow us to pursue collaborations and develop our products and core technologies to the extent otherwise possible. WE ARE RELIANT ON SINGLE SOURCE THIRD PARTY CONTRACTORS FOR THE MANUFACTURE AND PRODUCTION OF RAW MATERIALS AND PRODUCT CANDIDATES. We currently, and for the foreseeable future will, rely upon outside contractors to manufacture, supply and package for us key intermediates, active pharmaceutical ingredients and formulated drug product for our product candidates. Our current dependence upon others for the manufacture of our raw materials and product candidates and our anticipated dependence upon others for the manufacture of any products that we may develop, may adversely affect our ability to develop our product candidates in a timely manner and may adversely affect future profit margins and our ability to commercialize any products that we may develop on a timely and competitive basis. ENTRY INTO CLINICAL TRIALS WITH ONE OR MORE PRODUCTS MAY NOT RESULT IN ANY COMMERCIALLY VIABLE PRODUCTS. We do not expect to generate any significant revenues from product sales for a period of several years. We may never generate revenues from product sales or become profitable because of a variety of risks inherent in our business, including risks that: - we may be unsuccessful in finding partners willing to fund some or all of our clinical trial expenditures; - clinical trials may not demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products; - completion of clinical trials may be delayed, or costs of clinical trials may exceed anticipated amounts; - we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval of our products, or may experience delays in obtaining such approvals; - we and our licensees may not be able to successfully market our products. BECAUSE WE OR OUR COLLABORATORS MUST OBTAIN REGULATORY APPROVAL TO MARKET OUR PRODUCTS IN THE UNITED STATES AND FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS, WE CANNOT PREDICT WHETHER OR WHEN WE WILL BE PERMITTED TO COMMERCIALIZE OUR PRODUCTS. Federal, state and local governments in the United States and governments in other countries have significant regulations in place that govern many of our activities. The preclinical testing and clinical trials of the products that we develop ourselves or that our collaborators develop are subject to government regulation and may prevent us from creating commercially viable products from our discoveries. In addition, the sale by us or our collaborators of any commercially viable product will be subject to government regulation from several standpoints, including the processes of: - manufacturing; - - labeling; - distributing; - advertising and promoting; and - selling and marketing. We may not obtain regulatory approval for the products we develop and our collaborators may not obtain regulatory approval for the products they develop. Regulatory approval may also entail limitations on the indicated uses of a proposed product. The regulatory process, particularly for biopharmaceutical products like ours, is uncertain, can take many years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Any product that we or our collaborative partners develop must receive all relevant regulatory agency approvals or clearances, if any, before it may be marketed in the United States or other countries. In particular, human pharmaceutical therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical testing and other requirements by the Food and Drug Administration in the United States and similar health authorities in foreign countries. The regulatory process, which includes extensive preclinical testing and clinical trials of each product in order to establish its safety and efficacy, is uncertain, can take many years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities is susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory agency approvals or clearances. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered as a result of changes in regulatory agency policy during the period of product development and/or the period of review of any application for regulatory agency approval or clearance for a product. Delays in obtaining regulatory agency approvals or clearances could: - significantly harm the marketing of any products that we or our collaborators develop; - impose costly procedures upon our activities or the activities of our collaborators; - diminish any competitive advantages that we or our collaborative partners may attain; or - adversely affect our ability to receive royalties and generate revenues and profits. In addition, the marketing and manufacturing of drugs and biological products are subject to continuing FDA review, and later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, its manufacture or its marketing may result in the FDA requiring further clinical research or restrictions on the product or the manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. WE DEPEND ON OUR COLLABORATORS TO HELP US COMPLETE THE PROCESS OF DEVELOPING AND TESTING OUR PRODUCTS AND OUR ABILITY TO DEVELOP AND COMMERCIALIZE PRODUCTS MAY BE IMPAIRED OR DELAYED IF OUR COLLABORATIVE PARTNERSHIPS ARE UNSUCCESSFUL. Our strategy for the development, clinical testing and commercialization of our products requires entering into collaborations with corporate partners, licensors, licensees and others. We are dependent upon the subsequent success of these other parties in performing their respective responsibilities and the cooperation of our partners. Our collaborators may not cooperate with us or perform their obligations under our agreements with them. We cannot control the amount and timing of our collaborators' resources that will be devoted to our research activities related to our collaborative agreements with them. Our collaborators may choose to pursue existing or alternative technologies in preference to those being developed in collaboration with us. Under agreements with collaborators, we may rely significantly on them, among other activities, to: - fund research and development activities with us; - pay us fees upon the achievement of milestones; and - market with us any commercial products that result from our collaborations. OUR RELIANCE ON THE RESEARCH ACTIVITIES OF OUR NON-EMPLOYEE SCIENTIFIC ADVISORS AND OTHER RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS, WHOSE ACTIVITIES ARE NOT WHOLLY WITHIN OUR CONTROL, MAY LEAD TO DELAYS IN TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENTS. We have relationships with scientific advisors at academic and other institutions, some of whom conduct research at our request. These scientific advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. We have limited control over the activities of these advisors and, except as otherwise required by our collaboration and consulting agreements, can expect only limited amounts of their time to be dedicated to our activities. If our scientific advisors are unable or refuse to contribute to the development of any of our potential discoveries, our ability to generate significant advances in our technologies will be significantly harmed. THE LOSS OF KEY PERSONNEL COULD SLOW OUR ABILITY TO CONDUCT RESEARCH AND DEVELOP PRODUCTS. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the skills, experience and efforts of our executive officers and key members of our scientific staff. We may be unable to retain our current personnel or attract or assimilate other highly qualified management and scientific personnel in the future. The loss of any or all of these individuals could harm our business and might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of research, development or business objectives. WE FACE INTENSE COMPETITION FROM OTHER COMPANIES. Most or all of the products we could develop or commercialize will face competition from different therapeutic agents intended for treatment of the same indications or from other products incorporating drug delivery technologies. The competition potentially includes all of the pharmaceutical and drug delivery companies in the world. Many of these pharmaceutical companies have more financial resources, technical staff and manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. To the extent that we develop or market products incorporating drugs that are off-patent, or are being developed by multiple companies, we will face competition from other companies developing and marketing similar products. Pharmaceutical companies are increasingly using advertising, including direct-to-consumer advertising, in marketing their products. The costs of such advertising are very high and are increasing. It may be difficult for our Company to compete with larger companies investing greater resources in these marketing activities. Other pharmaceutical companies are aggressively seeking to obtain new products by licensing products or technology from other companies. We will be competing to license or acquire products or technology with companies with far greater financial and other resources. INABILITY TO OBTAIN SPECIAL MATERIALS COULD SLOW DOWN OUR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROCESS. Some of the critical materials and components used in our developed products are sourced from a single supplier. An interruption in supply of a key material could significantly delay our research and development process. Special materials must often be manufactured for the first time for use in drug delivery systems, or materials may be used in the systems in a manner different from their customary commercial uses. The quality of materials can be critical to the performance of a drug delivery system, so a reliable source of a consistent supply of materials is important. Materials or components needed for our drug delivery systems may be difficult to obtain on commercially reasonable terms, particularly when relatively small quantities are required, or if the materials traditionally have not been used in pharmaceutical products. PATENTS AND OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTION MAY BE DIFFICULT TO OBTAIN OR INEFFECTIVE. Patent protection generally has been important in the pharmaceutical industry. Our existing patents may not cover future products, additional patents may not be issued, and current patents or patents issued in the future may not provide meaningful protection or prove to be of commercial benefit. In the United States, patents are granted for specified periods of time. Some of our earlier patents have expired, or will expire, over the next several years. Other companies may successfully challenge our patents in the future. Others may also challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents in litigation. If any challenge is successful, other companies may then be able to use the invention covered by the patent without payment. In addition, if other companies are able to obtain patents that cover any of our technologies or products, we may be subject to liability for damages and our activities could be blocked by legal action unless we can obtain licenses to those patents. In addition, we utilize significant unpatented proprietary technology and rely on unpatented trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect certain aspects of our products and technologies and the methods used to manufacture them. Other companies have or may develop similar technology which will compete with our technology. IF WE FAIL TO CONTINUE TO MEET THE NASDAQ NATIONAL MARKET'S REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTINUED LISTING, THE NASDAQ NATIONAL MARKET MAY DELIST OUR COMMON STOCK, WHICH WOULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK AND OUR ABILITY TO SELL OUR COMMON STOCK. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq National Market. The rules of the Nasdaq National Market provide that issuers with stockholders' equity of less than $10 million may be delisted from the Nasdaq National Market. As of the end of the third fiscal quarter of 2005, we failed to meet that requirement, though we regained compliance with the requirement in January 2006. In the event that we fail to comply with all listing standards applicable to issuers listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market, our common stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq National Market. In that event, we may be required to list our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market provided we meet the listing requirements for the Nasdaq Capital Market. If we are delisted or required to list our common stock on a market or exchange less liquid than the Nasdaq National Market, it would be far more difficult for our stockholders to trade in our securities and it may be more difficult to obtain accurate, current information concerning market prices for our securities. The possibility that our securities may be delisted may also adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff comments None. AVAILABLE INFORMATION - --------------------- We make available free of charge on or through our Internet website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Internet website address is "www.appharma.com". 