ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. You should consider carefully these risk factors and all of the other information included in this Form 10-K. Any of these risk factors could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. These risks are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our securities. Before you decide whether to purchase any of our common stock you should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as may be updated from time to time by our future filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Risks Related To Our Business We have a history of losses, we expect to generate losses in the near future, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred recurring losses and had an accumulated deficit of $148.4 million as of December 31, 2010. We expect to continue to generate substantial losses over at least the next several years as we: • expand drug product development efforts; • conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials; and • pursue additional applications for our existing delivery technologies. To achieve and sustain profitability, we must, alone or with others, successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, market and sell our products. We will incur substantial expenses in our efforts to develop and commercialize products and we may never generate sufficient revenue to become profitable or to sustain profitability. We are substantially dependent upon the success of our APF530 product candidate. Clinical trial results and the NDA for this product may not lead to regulatory approval. We have invested a significant portion of our time and financial resources in the development of our most advanced product candidate, APF530, which prevents chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV). Our near-term ability to generate revenues and our future success, in large part, depends on the development and commercialization of APF530. We will not be able to commercialize our lead product candidate, APF530, until we obtain regulatory approval in the United States or foreign countries. To satisfy U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or foreign regulatory approval standards for the commercial sale of APF530, we must have demonstrated in adequate and controlled clinical trials that APF530 is safe and effective. APF530 is designed to provide at least five days prevention of CINV. In September and November 2008, we announced results of our pivotal Phase 3 human clinical trial of APF530 that achieved most of its primary and secondary endpoints. In May 2009, we submitted our new drug application (NDA) for approval of APF530 to the FDA. The NDA was accepted for review by the FDA in July 2009. In March 2010, we received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA, which stated that the NDA we submitted in May 2009 requesting approval of APF530 could not be approved in its present form. We discussed some of the issues in the Complete Response Letter with the FDA at a meeting in February 2011. A second meeting with the FDA is scheduled for late March 2011. Following the meetings with the FDA, we expect to be in a position to determine the resources and timeline needed for resubmitting the NDA for APF530. If the FDA does not approve our NDA or requests additional work or changes to the NDA, our continued ability to commercialize APF530 could be seriously impaired, and our business would be adversely impacted. Obtaining regulatory approval of APF530 for the prevention of acute CINV for both moderately and highly emetogenic chemotherapy, and for the prevention of delayed CINV in moderately emetogenic chemotherapy, is subject to many variables. For example, the FDA’s review may not produce positive decisions as to: • whether APF530 is safe and effective in its proposed use(s), and whether its benefits outweigh the risks; 18 Table of Contents • whether the proposed labeling (package insert) for APF530 is appropriate, and what it should contain; and • whether the methods used in manufacturing APF530 and the controls used to maintain its quality are adequate to preserve its identity, strength, quality and purity. Deficiencies on any of the above, or other factors, could prevent or delay obtaining regulatory approval of APF530, which would impair our reputation, increase our costs and prevent us from earning revenue. We may not obtain regulatory approval for APF530 or any of our product candidates. Regulatory approval may also be delayed or cancelled or may entail limitations on the indicated uses of a proposed product. The process for obtaining approval of a New Drug Application (NDA) is time consuming, subject to unanticipated delays and costs, and requires the commitment of substantial resources. The regulatory process, particularly for pharmaceutical product candidates like ours, is uncertain, can take many years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Any product that we or our collaborative partners develop must receive all relevant regulatory agency approvals or clearances, if any, before it may be marketed in the United States or other countries. In particular, human pharmaceutical therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical testing and other requirements by the FDA in the United States and similar health authorities in foreign countries. We may not receive necessary regulatory approvals or clearances to market APF530 or any other product candidate. In March 2010, we received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA which stated that the NDA we submitted in May 2009 requesting approval of APF530 could not be approved in its present form. The primary points raised in the FDA Complete Response Letter are as follows: Dosing System • The FDA expressed concerns relating to our two-syringe administration system, including potential issues with the transfer of material from one syringe to the other syringe prior to patient administration, certain components used in the dosing system and the potential risk of improper administration of the drug product. Chemistry, Manufacturing and Control • The FDA has completed inspections of our facility and several of our contract manufacturing facilities. The Agency identified certain deficiencies during these inspections, and satisfactory resolution of these deficiencies will be required for approval. • During the NDA review, the FDA asked that we determine if terminal sterilization with gamma irradiation is a feasible approach to enhance the assurance of sterility. We have subsequently demonstrated that terminal sterilization is feasible, and the FDA has requested we change to terminal sterilization prior to approval. • The FDA requested clarification and revision of certain analytical specifications proposed in our NDA. Clinical • The FDA did not request additional clinical efficacy studies, although the Agency has asked for the re-presentation and re-analysis of select existing Phase 3 clinical trial data. • The FDA requested we perform two studies relating to bioavailability and metabolism. We believe these studies should be of short duration in normal volunteers. • The FDA did not accept our request to waive the requirement for a thorough QT study. We believe this study should be of short duration in normal volunteers. We plan to discuss the design and timing of the study with the FDA. Since receiving the Complete Response Letter, we have been working to address the issues raised by the FDA. The FDA granted the Company two meetings to discuss the Complete Response Letter in the first quarter of 2011, one in February and one in March. At the February 2011 meeting, we presented information concerning the clinical pharmacology of APF530 and a revised presentation format for certain clinical data from the Company’s Phase 3 study. The FDA indicated the Company would 19 Table of Contents need to complete a thorough QT study prior to resubmitting its NDA and clarified the requirements for a previously requested metabolism study. The FDA agreed both studies could be structured as a single clinical study conducted in healthy volunteers. Once initiated, this study is anticipated to take approximately six months to complete. The FDA also indicated that the revised presentation format for the clinical data was acceptable for resubmission. The FDA did not request that the Company conduct any additional efficacy studies. The second FDA meeting is scheduled for the end of March 2011, with the subjects under discussion being the dosing system and the characterization and manufacturing of APF530. At the meeting, the Company will be presenting the results of the additional analytical work it has completed since receipt of the Complete Response Letter Following the meetings with the FDA, we expect to be in a position to determine the resources and timeline needed for resubmitting the NDA for APF530. Our NDA for APF530 may not be approved after our resubmission, or approval may be delayed, as a result of changes in FDA policies for drug approval prior to the resubmission of our NDA. For example, although many products have been approved by the FDA in recent years under Section 505(b)(2) under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, objections have been raised to the FDA’s interpretation of Section 505(b)(2). If challenges to the FDA’s interpretation of Section 505(b)(2) are successful, the Agency may be required to change its interpretation, which could delay or prevent the approval of our NDA for APF530. The review of our resubmitted NDA may also be delayed due to the FDA’s internal resource constraints. Additionally, data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities is susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory agency approvals or clearances. For example, the FDA may require additional clinical data to support approval, such as confirmatory studies and other data or studies to address questions or concerns that may arise during the FDA review process. Delays in resubmitting an NDA and obtaining regulatory approval for APF530, or a second Complete Response letter, would, among other consequences: • significantly harm the marketing of any products that we or our collaborators develop; • impose costly procedures upon our activities or the activities of our collaborators; • diminish any competitive advantages that we or our collaborative partners may attain; or • adversely affect our ability to receive royalties and generate revenue and profits. All of these consequences would further increase our need for additional capital resources. Even if granted, regulatory approvals may include significant limitations on the uses for which products may be marketed. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can, among other things, result in warning letters, imposition of civil penalties or other monetary payments, delay in approving or refusal to approve a product candidate, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recall or seizure, operating restrictions, interruption of clinical trials or manufacturing, injunctions and criminal prosecution. In addition, the marketing and manufacturing of drugs and biological products are subject to continuing FDA review, and later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, its manufacture or its marketing may result in the FDA requiring further clinical research or restrictions on the product or the manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Additional capital is needed to enable us to implement our business plan, and we may be unable to raise capital, which would force us to limit or cease our operations and related product development programs. Raising such capital may have to be accomplished on unfavorable terms, possibly causing dilution to our existing stockholders. We believe that our cash resources as of December 31, 2010 should allow us to operate into May 2011 as we continue to defer certain discretionary activities. We are in discussions with an investor regarding a bridge loan, which may be 20 Table of Contents executed following the second FDA meeting. The bridge loan is intended to fund Company operations until additional longer-term financing is secured. Following the second FDA meeting at the end of March and the funding of the bridge loan, the Company plans to seek additional financing in the form of equity, debt or collaboration agreements to fund operations through the potential approval of APF530. The Company believes that the bridge loan (which would be convertible into shares of our common stock) and any form of the intended longer-term financing will be highly dilutive to existing stockholders. Our capital requirements going forward will depend on numerous factors, including the number and characteristics of product development programs we pursue and the pace of each program; the scope, rate of progress, results and costs of preclinical testing and clinical trials; the time, cost and outcome involved in seeking regulatory approvals; scientific progress in our research and development programs; the magnitude and scope of our research and development programs; our ability to establish and maintain strategic collaborations or partnerships for research, development, clinical testing; manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates; the cost and timing of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities for a specialty sales force if we commercialize any products independently; the cost of establishing clinical and commercial supplies of our product candidates and any products that we may develop; and general market conditions. We are currently negotiating definitive terms with respect to the bridge loan, after which we will be seeking additional financing to continue our activities, which may include a collaborative arrangement, an equity offering, debt financing, or some combination of these funding sources. If we are unable to complete such financings or unable to obtain sufficient financing on acceptable terms or otherwise, due to various factors including our ability to continue trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market, we may be required to further reduce, defer, or discontinue our activities or may not be able to continue as a going concern. We may not be able to raise sufficient additional capital when we need it or to raise capital on favorable or any terms. As noted herein, the sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities in the future will be highly dilutive to our stockholders, and debt financing arrangements (including the proposed bridge loan) may require us to pledge certain assets and enter into covenants that could restrict certain business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness and may contain other terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. If we are unable to obtain adequate funds on reasonable terms, we may be required to curtail significantly or cease operations or to obtain funds by entering into financing, supply or collaboration agreements on unattractive terms. We currently do not have the financial resources to launch APF530. If APF530 is approved, we anticipate pursuing either a collaborative arrangement with a corporate partner that will provide the necessary financial resources and expertise to launch APF530 or obtaining additional funding and resources that would be required to launch APF530 without a corporate partner. There can be no assurance that APF530 will be approved and, if approved, that we will be successful in obtaining the additional necessary financial resources and expertise, with or without a corporate partner, that will be required to launch APF530. In addition, the timing and degree of any longer-term capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the number and characteristics of product development programs we pursue and the pace of each program; • the scope, rate of progress, results and costs of preclinical testing and clinical trials; • the time, cost and outcome involved in seeking regulatory approvals; • scientific progress in our research and development programs; • the magnitude and scope of our research and development programs; • our ability to establish and maintain strategic collaborations or partnerships for research, development, clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates; • the cost and timing of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities for a specialty sales force if we commercialize any products independently; • the cost of establishing clinical and commercial supplies of our product candidates and any products that we may develop; and • general market conditions. 21 Table of Contents We do not anticipate that we will generate significant continuing revenues for at least several years, if ever. Until we can generate significant continuing revenues, we plan to satisfy our future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, as well as strategic collaborations, in the form of license fees, research and development fees and milestone payments. If we issue additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities to raise funds, our stockholders will suffer dilution of their investment and it may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Any debt financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include, among other things, limitations on borrowing, specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem capital stock or make investments. In the event that additional funds are obtained through arrangements with collaborative partners, these arrangements may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products on terms that are not favorable to us or require us to enter into a collaboration arrangement that we would otherwise seek to develop and commercialize ourselves. If adequate funds are not available, we may again be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our product development programs and reduce personnel-related and other costs, which will have a material adverse effect on our business. The general economic environment in which we operate is experiencing unprecedented weakness and volatility. Our ability to secure the additional capital necessary for implementation of our longer-term business plans and general corporate continuity may be diminished by the recent and continuing negative business conditions and financial markets. For example, the difficulty in obtaining additional capital necessary to develop our other product candidates has led us to temporarily suspend such development programs. We depend on our collaborators as a source of capital and to help us complete the process of developing and testing our products. Our strategy for the development, clinical testing and commercialization of our products requires entering into collaborations with corporate partners, licensors, licensees and others. These collaborations are critical to funding our operations and our success in bringing our products and product candidates to the market and promoting such marketed products profitably. We are dependent upon the subsequent success of these other parties in performing their respective responsibilities and the cooperation of our partners. Our collaborators may not cooperate with us or perform their obligations under our agreements with them. We cannot control the amount and timing of our collaborators’ resources that will be devoted to our research activities related to our collaborative agreements with them. Our collaborators may choose to pursue existing or alternative technologies in preference to those being developed in collaboration with us. We may prioritize other programs ahead of collaboration activities such that funding from these other parties could be reduced or deferred. Failure to make or maintain these arrangements, or a delay in a collaborative partner’s performance, or factors that may affect our partner’s sales may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under agreements with collaborators, we may rely significantly on them, among other activities, to: • fund research and development activities with us; • pay us fees upon the achievement of milestones; and • market for or with us any commercial products that result from our collaborations. Suspension of our pipeline development program will delay potential realization of value from new products. Further development of our pipeline products has been temporarily deferred in order to focus managerial, technical and financial resources on the APF530 resubmission responsive to issues identified in the March 2010 Complete Response Letter. This action has delayed the planned development of these products, reducing their potential commercial value. 22 Table of Contents Clinical trials are expensive and may not result in commercially viable products. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process. For example, we have incurred significant expenses in developing APF530, and even if approved, it may not result in a commercially viable product. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any products, we, or our partners, must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans. We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial expense and devote a significant amount of time to preclinical testing and clinical trials. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected by any delays in, or termination of, our clinical trials. Factors impacting our ability to generate commercially viable products through the conduct of clinical trials include: • insufficient funds to continue necessary clinical trials; • inability to find partners; • failure of clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates to the extent necessary to obtain regulatory approvals; • failure of preclinical testing and early clinical trials to predict results of later clinical trials; • delay in completion of clinical trials, resulting in increased costs; and • inability to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates following completion of clinical trials, or delays in obtaining such approvals. There can be no assurance that if our clinical trials are successfully initiated and completed, we will be able to obtain approval by the FDA in the United States or similar application to other regulatory authorities elsewhere in the world, in a timely manner, if at all. If we are unable to obtain approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities elsewhere in the world, we will be unable to commercialize that product. These authorities can, and do, reject NDAs and require additional clinical trials, even when product candidates have performed well or have achieved favorable results in clinical trials. If we fail to commercialize one or more of our product candidates, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to attain profitability and our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be damaged, each of which would cause our stock price to decrease. Delays in clinical testing could increase our costs and delay our ability to obtain regulatory approval and commercialize our product candidates. Before we, or our collaborators, can file for regulatory approval for the commercial sale of our potential products, the FDA requires extensive preclinical safety testing and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy. Significant delays in preclinical and clinical testing could materially impact our product development costs and delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. For example, enrollment in the Phase 3 trial for APF530 was slower than we expected, resulting in delays in our development timeline and increased costs. Completing clinical trials in a timely manner depends on, among other factors: • obtaining regulatory approval to commence a trial; • obtaining clinical materials; • reaching agreement on acceptable clinical study terms with prospective sites and clinical research organizations; • obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a study at a prospective site; and • recruiting patients to participate in a study. Additionally, our current suspension of development work on our pipeline products will delay clinical testing of these products and their possible regulatory approvals, potentially reducing their eventual competitiveness and commercial values. 23 Table of Contents We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and their failure to perform their obligations in a timely and competent manner may delay development and commercialization of our product candidates. We used clinical research organizations in the United States, India and Poland to oversee our clinical trial of APF530 and we expect to use the same or similar organizations for our future clinical trials. There are numerous alternative sources to provide these services; however, we may face delays outside of our control if these parties do not perform their obligations in a timely or competent fashion, or if we are forced to change service providers. Different cultural and operational issues in foreign countries could cause delays or unexpected problems with the patient enrollments or with the data obtained from those locations. If we experience significant delays in the progress of our clinical trials and in our plans to file NDAs or problems with the quality of data derived from various clinical sites, the prospects for approval our products in general and on a timely basis could decrease. We have yet to demonstrate the full commercial viability of our delivery technology, and we cannot be certain that attainment of such a goal can be accomplished. Our bioerodible drug delivery technology is at an early stage of development. We may not be able to substantiate the capability of our drug delivery technology for a variety of reasons: • selection of inappropriate therapeutic compound for delivery; • selection of inappropriate use or application for the particular product candidate; • failure to receive regulatory approval on a timely basis or at all; or • difficulties with manufacturing in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost. Successful development of delivery technologies requires significant preclinical and clinical testing prior to regulatory approval, if any. Because of these scientific, regulatory and commercial hurdles, any program could be abandoned or otherwise fail, even after significant resources have been expended. If any products that we or our collaborators may develop do not attain adequate market acceptance by healthcare professionals and patients, our business prospects and results of operations will suffer. Even if a product candidate receives regulatory approval for commercial sale, the revenue received, or to be received, from the sale of the product may not be significant and will depend on many factors that are outside of our control. Factors that may affect revenue from our product candidates, if and when approved, include: • perception of physicians and other members of the health care community of their safety and efficacy relative to that of competing products; • cost-effectiveness; • patient and physician satisfaction with these products; • ability to manufacture commercial products successfully and on a timely basis; • cost and availability of raw materials; • market size for these products; • reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors; • unfavorable publicity concerning these products or similar drugs; • the introduction, availability and acceptance of competing treatments, including those of our collaborators; • adverse event information relating to these products; 24 Table of Contents • product labeling or product insert required by the FDA or regulatory authorities in other countries; • the regulatory developments related to the manufacture or continued use of these products; • extent and effectiveness of sales and marketing and distribution support for the products; and • our collaborators’ decisions as to the timing of product launches, pricing and discounting. Our product revenue will be adversely affected if, due to these or other factors, the products we or our collaborators are able to commercialize do not gain significant market acceptance. If our suppliers and contract manufacturers fail to complete pre-commercialization manufacturing development activities for APF530 on a timely basis or fail to comply with stringent regulatory requirements, we will face delays in our ability to obtain regulatory approval for, and to commercialize, APF530, and our costs will increase. We do not manufacture APF530, and do not currently plan to develop any capacity to do so. Instead, we have relied on third-parties to manufacture and perform important pre-commercialization manufacturing development activities for APF530. As part of the process for obtaining regulatory approval, we must demonstrate that the facilities, equipment and processes used to manufacture APF530 are capable of consistently producing a product that meets all applicable quality criteria, and that is comparable to the product that was used in our clinical trials. We must also provide the FDA with information regarding the validation of the manufacturing facilities, equipment and processes of our third-party suppliers and manufacturers, and data supporting the stability of APF530. If our third-party suppliers and manufacturers are not in compliance with current good manufacturing practice requirements, the approval of our marketing application may be delayed, existing product batches may be compromised, and we may experience delays in the availability of APF530 for commercial distribution. For example, our Complete Response Letter from the FDA regarding our NDA submission for APF530 stated that the NDA could not be approved in its present form due to, among other issues, deficiencies observed during an inspection of the facilities used by our third-party suppliers and manufacturers to produce APF530. We anticipate that our third-party suppliers and manufacturers will submit a response to the FDA to address such issues. If the FDA is not satisfied with these responses and any corrective actions taken by these third parties, or if the FDA determines that it is necessary to re-inspect our third-party suppliers’ and manufacturers’ facilities before agreeing that the inspectional observations have been adequately addressed, we may be required to complete additional manufacturing development activities or provide other information in order to resubmit our NDA, which could cause substantial delays in obtaining regulatory approval for APF530, increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We depend on contract manufacturers and collaborators for manufacturing our products; if they do not perform as expected, our revenue and customer relations will suffer. We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities for the production of clinical or commercial quantities of any product. Our ability to develop and commercialize any products we may develop will depend in part on our ability to manufacture, or arrange for collaborators or other parties to manufacture, our products at a competitive cost, in accordance with regulatory requirements, and in sufficient quantities for clinical testing and eventual commercialization. We do not intend to develop or acquire facilities to manufacture any of our product candidates for clinical trials or commercial purposes in the foreseeable future. We rely on a small number of third-party manufacturers to produce our compounds and expect to continue to do so to meet the preclinical and clinical requirements of our potential products and for all of our commercial needs, some of which are our sole source suppliers at present. We have no long-term agreements with any of these third parties. We may not be able to extend these agreements at satisfactory terms, or at all, and we may not be able to find a replacement contract manufacturer at satisfactory terms or on a timely basis. Additionally, difficult economic conditions may cause operational and financial problems for our third party suppliers, resulting in their failure and disruption to our operations. Further, our contract manufacturers and our collaborators are required to comply with FDA requirements related to product testing, quality assurance, manufacturing and records and documentation. Our contract manufacturers, or our 25 Table of Contents collaborators, may not be able to comply with the applicable FDA regulatory requirements. They may be required to pass an FDA pre-approval inspection for conformity with cGMPs before we can obtain approval to manufacture, and will be subject to ongoing, periodic, unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMP, and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. If we and our contract manufacturers fail to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards in compliance with cGMP regulations, we may experience manufacturing errors resulting in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or interruptions of production or failures in product testing or delivery, delay or prevention of filing or approval of marketing applications for our products, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business. We are aware that one particular contract manufacturer has previously received Form 483 notices and a Warning Letter from the FDA and is working to address the deficiencies identified in these notices. The remediation efforts may not be adequate to address the deficiencies or the manufacturer may not stay in compliance with FDA requirements in the future. Not complying with FDA requirements could result in an enforcement or other action, prevent commercialization of our product candidates and impair our reputation and results of operations. Any performance failure on the part of our contract manufacturers could delay clinical development or regulatory approval of product candidates or commercialization of our future products, depriving us of potential product revenue and resulting in additional losses. In addition, our dependence on a third party for manufacturing may adversely affect our future profit margins and limit our ability to commercialize products on a timely and competitive basis. Our ability to replace an existing manufacturer may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited, and the FDA must approve any replacement manufacturer before we can begin manufacturing APF530 or any of our other product candidates. Such approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. It may be difficult or impossible for us to identify and engage a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all. APF530 or any of our other product candidates may be in competition with other products for access to the facilities of third parties. Consequently, APF530 or any of our other product candidates may be subject to manufacturing delays if collaborators or outside contractors give other companies’ products greater priority than our products. For this and other reasons, our collaborators or third-party service providers may not be able to manufacture APF530 or any of our other product candidates in a cost-effective or timely manner. If not manufactured in a timely manner, the clinical development of any of our product candidates or their submission for regulatory approval could be delayed, and our ability to deliver products to market on a timely basis could be impaired or precluded. To date, APF530 and our product candidates have been manufactured in small quantities for preclinical studies and clinical trials. If in the future APF530 or any of our product candidates are approved for commercial sale, we will need to manufacture our products in larger quantities. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require additional process development and validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. The commercial success of our products, including APF530 in the near-term, will be dependent upon the ability of our contract manufacturers to produce a product in commercial quantities at competitive costs of manufacture. The ability to do so cannot be presumed. Significant additional development work is required prior to any commercial launch of a product. In the case of APF530, the high viscosity of the product creates particularly challenging factors relative to attainable production rates and cost of manufacture. If APF530 receives regulatory approval, we plan to scale-up manufacturing for APF530 in order to realize important economies of scale. These scale-up activities would take time to implement, require additional capital investment, process development and validation studies, and FDA approval. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in achieving competitive manufacturing costs through such scale-up activities. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to sell and market any products we may develop, we may be unable to generate product revenue. We do not currently have a sales organization for the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In order to commercialize any products, we must build our sales, marketing, distribution, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. We have not yet determined whether we will attempt to establish internal sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to sell and market any products we may develop. We have no experience in developing, training or managing a marketing and sales force. The establishment and development of our own sales force to market any products we may develop will be expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch, and we cannot be certain that we would be able to successfully develop this capacity. If we are unable to establish our sales and marketing capability or any other non- 26 Table of Contents technical capabilities necessary to commercialize any product we may develop, we will need to contract with third parties to market and sell any products we may develop. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. If we fail to comply with continuing federal, state and foreign regulations, we could lose our approvals to market drugs and our business would be seriously harmed. Following initial regulatory approval of any drugs we may develop, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including review of adverse drug experiences and clinical results that are reported after our drug products become commercially available. This would include results from any post-marketing tests or continued actions required as a condition of approval. The manufacturer and manufacturing facilities we use to make any of our drug candidates will be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. If a previously unknown problem or problems with a product or a manufacturing and laboratory facility used by us is discovered, the FDA or foreign regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or on the manufacturing facility, including requiring us to withdraw the product from the market. Any changes to an approved product, including the way it is manufactured or promoted, often require FDA approval before the product, as modified, can be marketed. We and our contract manufacturers will be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for submission of safety and other post-market information. If we and our contract manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters; • impose civil or criminal penalties; • suspend or withdraw our regulatory approval; • suspend or terminate any of our ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; • impose restrictions on our operations; • close the facilities of our contract manufacturers; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. Additionally, such regulatory review covers a company’s activities in the promotion of its drugs, with significant potential penalties and restrictions for promotion of drugs for an unapproved use. Sales and marketing programs are under scrutiny for compliance with various mandated requirements, such as illegal promotions to healthcare professionals. We are also required to submit information on our open and completed clinical trials to public registries and databases; failure to comply with these requirements could expose us to negative publicity, fines and penalties that could harm our business. If we are unable to recruit and retain skilled employees, we may not be able to achieve our objectives. We depend on a small number of key management and technical personnel. Retaining our current employees and recruiting qualified scientific personnel to perform future research and development work will be critical to our success. While recent pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry layoffs have somewhat mitigated a usual shortage of skilled personnel in our industry, competition is always present for experienced scientists, and an inability to recruit or retain sufficient skilled personnel could result in delays to product development or approval, loss of sales and diversion of management resources. If we lose members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements and our business may be harmed as a result. Further proactive reductions in our workforce, such as occurred in November 2008 and May 2009, could create difficulties in our ability to perform the activities necessary to accomplish our operational and strategic goals. 27 Table of Contents If we are unable to lease a suitable space after the expiration of our lease, or if we are unable to comply with the terms of our lease agreement, such failure could delay our research and development efforts and adversely affect our business. We lease laboratory, office and warehouse space in Redwood City, California under a lease expiring on March 31, 2011. We are currently evaluating our options for renewing our lease, or leasing office and lab space in the proximity of our current offices and entering a new lease following the end of the current lease. However, given that we expect to continue to generate substantial losses over at least the next several years and given that there is significant uncertainty surrounding our ability to raise capital, we cannot be sure that we will be able to find suitable space at a lease rate we can afford. Our failure to lease suitable laboratory and office space would be disruptive to our operations and result in delays in our research and development efforts. In addition, our failure to fulfill our financial obligations under our current lease, and our failure to cure or repair such failure in a timely manner and in accordance with the lease agreement, may result in a breach or default of the lease agreement. Any claim against us for breach or default under the lease agreement may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face intense competition from other companies. APF530 is expected to face significant competition for the prevention of delayed CINV, principally from Eisai’s Aloxi (palonosetron). In addition to Aloxi, APF530 will compete with entrenched products for prevention of acute CINV including Roche’s Kytril (granisetron) and GlaxoSmithKline’s Zofran (ondansetron). Generic versions of certain of these products are also marketed by other companies. Generic versions of Aloxi may become available after its scheduled patent expiration in 2015. We are also aware of several companies that have developed or are developing both generic and new formulations of granisetron, including transdermal formulations such as ProStrakan’s Sancuso® (granisetron transdermal patch). APF112 is expected to face competition from two injectable controlled release bupivicane products, Durect Corporation’s Posidur™ and Pacira Pharmaceutical’s Exparel™ DepoBupivacaine. There are several companies that are developing new formulations of existing drugs using novel drug delivery technologies. Many of these companies have substantially greater financial, research and development, manufacturing, sales and marketing, distribution resources and experience than we do. The following are some of our major competitors among drug delivery system developers: Alkermes, Inc., Depomed, Inc., Durect Corporation, and Pacira Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Smaller or early stage companies and research institutions may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established pharmaceutical companies. We will also face competition from these parties in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, and acquiring and in-licensing technologies and products complementary to our programs or potentially advantageous to our business. If any of our competitors succeed in obtaining approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities for their products sooner than we do or for products that are more effective or less costly than ours, our commercial opportunity could be significantly reduced. Major technological changes can happen quickly in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, and the development of technologically improved or different products or drug delivery technologies may make our product candidates or platform technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. Because we or our collaborators must obtain regulatory approval to market our products in the United States and foreign jurisdictions, we cannot predict whether or when we will be permitted to commercialize our products. Federal, state and local governments in the United States and governments in other countries have significant regulations in place that govern many of our activities. The preclinical testing and clinical trials of the products that we develop ourselves, or that our collaborators develop are subject to government regulation and may prevent us from creating commercially viable products from our discoveries. These regulations and their application may change making it more difficult or prohibitive to develop our products. In addition, the sale by us, or our collaborators, of any commercially viable product will be subject to government regulation from several standpoints, including the processes of: • manufacturing; 28 Table of Contents • labeling; • distributing; • advertising and promoting; and • selling and marketing. If we cannot establish pricing of our product candidates acceptable to the United States or foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors, or arrange for favorable reimbursement policies, any product sales will be severely hindered. The continuing efforts of the United States and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may adversely affect our ability to generate adequate revenues and gross margins to make the products we develop commercially viable. Our ability to commercialize any product candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations establish appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of any products and related treatments. In certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. In the United States, given recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, the U.S. Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and on the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid systems. The trend toward managed health care in the United States, which could significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care, control pharmaceutical prices or reduce government insurance programs, may result in lower prices for our product candidates. While we cannot predict whether any legislative or regulatory proposals affecting our business will be adopted, the announcement or adoption of these proposals could have a material and adverse effect on our potential revenues and gross margins. Our business strategy includes the entry into additional collaborative agreements. We may not be able to enter into additional collaborative agreements or may not be able to negotiate commercially acceptable terms for these agreements. Our current business strategy includes the entry into additional collaborative agreements for the development and commercialization of our delivery technologies. The negotiation and consummation of these types of agreements typically involve simultaneous discussions with multiple potential collaborators and require significant time and resources from our officers, business development, legal and research and development staff. In addition, in attracting the attention of pharmaceutical and biotechnology company collaborators, we compete with numerous other third parties with product opportunities as well the collaborators’ own internal product opportunities. We may not be able to consummate additional collaborative agreements, or we may not be able to negotiate commercially acceptable terms for these agreements. If we do not consummate additional collaborative agreements, we may have to consume money more rapidly on our product development efforts, continue to defer development activities or forego the exploitation of certain geographic territories, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we or our collaborators cannot arrange for adequate third-party reimbursement for our products, our future revenue will suffer. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our potential products will depend in substantial part on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third-party payors such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Third-party payors often challenge the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services and such pressure may increase in the future. Significant uncertainty exists as to the adequate reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Any products we are able to successfully develop may not be reimbursable by third-party payors. In addition, our products may not be considered cost-effective and adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize a profit. Legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before our products are approved for marketing and any such changes could further limit reimbursement. Reimbursement policies utilized by our collaborators or ourselves may be 29 Table of Contents challenged by regulatory entities, with resultant fines, negative publicity and the need to implement changes that reduce the utilization of our products. If any products we develop do not receive adequate reimbursement, our revenue will be severely limited. Our inability to obtain specialized materials could slow down our product development process. Some of the critical materials and components used in our products in development are sourced from a single supplier. An interruption in supply of a key material could significantly delay our research and development process or increase our expenses. Specialized materials must often be manufactured for the first time for use in drug delivery technologies, or materials may be used in the technologies in a manner different from their customary commercial uses. The quality of materials can be critical to the performance of a drug delivery technology, so a reliable source of a consistent supply of materials is important. Materials or components needed for our drug delivery technologies may be difficult to obtain on commercially reasonable terms, particularly when relatively small quantities are required, or if the materials traditionally have not been used in pharmaceutical products. If we are unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to third-party patents, we may lose valuable assets, experience reduced market share or incur costly litigation to protect our rights or our third-party collaborators may choose to terminate their agreements with us. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection as well as successfully defending these patents against challenges, while operating without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We have filed a number of U.S. patent applications on inventions relating to the composition of a variety of polymers, specific products, product groups and processing technology. In addition to obtaining patents in a number of foreign countries, we have also filed U.S. and foreign patent applications on our polymer technology with the PCT, the European Patent Office, Australia, Canada, China, Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea, Singapore and Taiwan. We have a total of 27 issued U.S. patents and an additional 49 issued (or registered) foreign patents. The patents on the bioerodible technologies expire between January 2016 and November 2023. Our existing patents may not cover future products, additional patents may not be issued, and current patents, or patents issued in the future, may not provide meaningful protection or prove to be of commercial benefit. The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies, including ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. In addition, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. Consequently, our patent applications, or those that are licensed to us, may not issue into patents, and any issued patents may not provide sufficient protection for our product candidates or provide sufficient protection to afford us a commercial advantage against competitive technologies or may be held invalid if challenged or circumvented. Patent applications in the United States are maintained in confidence for at least 18 months after their filing. Consequently, we cannot be certain that the patent applications we are pursuing will lead to the issuance of any patent or be free from infringement or other claims from other parties. Our competitors may also independently develop products similar to ours or design around or otherwise circumvent patents issued to us or licensed by us. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the U.S. law. We are party to collaborative agreements. These agreements subject us to obligations which must be fulfilled and require us to manage complex relationships with third parties. If we are unable to meet our obligations or manage our relationships with our collaborators under these agreements, or enter into additional collaboration agreements, or if our existing collaborations are terminated or not extended on terms as beneficial as we anticipate, our revenue may decrease. Our third-party collaborators have entered into these agreements based on the exclusivity that our intellectual property rights confer on the products being developed. The loss or diminution of our intellectual property rights could result in a decision by our third-party collaborators to terminate their agreements with us. In addition, these agreements are generally complex and contain provisions that could give rise to legal disputes, including potential disputes concerning ownership of intellectual property and data under collaborations. Such disputes can lead to lengthy, expensive litigation or arbitration requiring us to devote management time and resources to such dispute which we would otherwise spend on our business. 30 Table of Contents We also rely upon trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We require our employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to execute appropriate confidentiality and assignment-of-inventions agreements with us. These agreements typically provide that all materials and confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual’s relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances, and that all inventions arising out of the individual’s relationship with us shall be our exclusive property. These agreements may be breached, and in some instances, we may not have an appropriate remedy available for breach of the agreements. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, reverse engineer our information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology. We may be unable to meaningfully protect our rights in trade secrets, technical know-how and other non-patented technology. We may have to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. In addition, interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications. Enforcing or defending our proprietary rights is expensive, could cause diversion of our resources and may not prove successful. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to seek to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. Any failure to enforce or protect our rights could cause us to lose the ability to exclude others from using our technology to develop or sell competing products. We may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, and any litigation could force us to stop developing or selling potential products and could be costly, divert management attention and harm our business. We must be able to develop products without infringing the proprietary rights of other parties. Because the markets in which we operate involve established competitors with significant patent portfolios, including patents relating to the composition of a variety of polymers, specific products, product groups and processing technology, it could be difficult for us to use our technologies or develop products without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We may not be able to design around the patented technologies or inventions of others and we may not be able to obtain licenses to use patented technologies on acceptable terms, or at all. If we cannot operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others, we will not be able to develop or commercialize some or all of our product candidates, and consequently will not be able to earn product revenue. If we are required to defend ourselves in a lawsuit, we could incur substantial costs and the lawsuit could divert management attention, regardless of the lawsuit’s merit or outcome. These legal actions could seek damages and seek to enjoin testing, manufacturing and marketing of the accused product or process. In addition to potential liability for significant damages, we could be required to obtain a license to continue to manufacture or market the accused product or process and any license required under any such patent may not be made available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Periodically, we review publicly available information regarding the development efforts of others in order to determine whether these efforts may violate our proprietary rights. We may determine that litigation is necessary to enforce our proprietary rights against others. Such litigation could result in substantial expense, regardless of its outcome, and may not be resolved in our favor. Furthermore, patents already issued to us or our pending patent applications may become subject to dispute, and any disputes could be resolved against us. In addition, because patent applications in the United States are currently maintained in secrecy for a period of time prior to issuance, and patent applications in certain other countries generally are not published until more than 18 months after they are first filed, and because publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first creator of inventions covered by our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications on such inventions. We may have on-going obligations related to previously discontinued operations, which could divert management attention and require financial resources to fulfill. We remain party to agreements related to the licensing and manufacturing of products from discontinued operations related to our topical pharmaceutical and cosmeceutical businesses. We no longer are active in these markets and the assets related to these businesses have been licensed or sold to third parties. We have a license agreement with sanofi-aventis for Carac, and with Ortho Neutrogena for Retin-A Micro. We have an agreement with an Amcol International 31 Table of Contents (Amcol) subsidiary for the manufacture and supply of these products. We also have assigned all royalties related to these products to an affiliate of the Paul Royalty Fund. Under these agreements, A.P. Pharma may be required to make payments or take certain actions to enable the continued marketing and sale of these products for the benefit of these third parties. As described in Note 9, Discontinued Operations, to the Financial Statements, Amcol is currently requesting payment of $703,000 as the Gross Profit Guaranty under our manufacturing agreement with them. We have requested documentation of the actual costs, but have accrued at the amount Amcol represents it is currently owed. As there is no minimum amount of Gross Profit Guaranty due, no accrual for the guaranty is estimable for future years. Our agreement regarding the Gross Profit Guaranty potentially extends to July 1, 2013. We are exposed to risks and increased expenses when we no longer qualify as a smaller reporting company as a result of laws requiring filers to evaluate internal controls over financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 404) requires management to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financing reporting in our annual report on Form 10-K for each fiscal year. Our independent auditors will be required to report on our internal control over financial reporting when we no longer qualify as a smaller reporting company. We and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. We have implemented an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation we believe to be necessary to comply with these requirements. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts. We expect to incur increased expense and to devote additional management resources to Section 404 compliance when we no longer qualify as a smaller reporting company. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation or operation of these controls, could harm our operating results and cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, which could adversely affect our business and reduce our stock price. Our management, including our Acting Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. We cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future, which would require management and our independent registered public accounting firm to evaluate our internal controls as ineffective. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not considered effective, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and on the price of our stock. Legislative actions, potential new accounting pronouncements and higher insurance costs are likely to impact our future financial position or results of operations. Future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse, unexpected fluctuations in the timing of the recognition of revenue or expenses and may affect our financial position or results of operations. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred with frequency and may occur in the future and we may make changes in our accounting policies in the future. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board pronouncements and The NASDAQ Capital Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours and insurance, accounting and auditing costs are increasing as a result of this uncertainty and other factors. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. We could be exposed to significant product liability claims that could be time consuming and costly to defend, divert management attention and adversely impact our ability to obtain and maintain insurance coverage. The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of our products involve an inherent risk that product liability claims will be asserted against us. Although we are insured against such risks up to an annual aggregate limit in connection with clinical 32 Table of Contents trials and commercial sales of our products, our present product liability insurance may be inadequate and may not fully cover the costs of any claim or any ultimate damages we might be required to pay. Product liability claims or other claims related to our products, regardless of their outcome, could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Any successful product liability claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable or reasonable terms. In addition, product liability coverage may cease to be available in sufficient amounts or at an acceptable cost. An inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products. A product liability claim could also significantly harm our reputation and delay market acceptance of our products. Our use of hazardous materials could subject us to liabilities, fines and sanctions. Our laboratory and clinical testing sometimes involve use of hazardous, radioactive or otherwise toxic materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing how we use, manufacture, handle, store and dispose of these materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply in all material respects with all federal, state and local regulations and standards, there is always the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result and such liability could exceed our financial resources. If we fail to comply with these regulations and standards or with the conditions attached to our operating licenses, the licenses could be revoked, and we could be subjected to criminal sanctions and substantial financial liability or be required to suspend or modify our operations. Compliance with environmental and other laws may be expensive and current or future regulations may impair our development or commercialization efforts. Earthquake damage to our facilities could delay our research and development efforts and adversely affect our business. Our research and development facility in Redwood City, California, is located in a seismic zone, and there is the possibility of an earthquake, which could be disruptive to our operations and result in delays in our research and development efforts. In the event of an earthquake, if our facilities or the equipment in our facilities are significantly damaged or destroyed, we may not be able to rebuild or relocate our facility or replace any damaged equipment in a timely manner and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related To Our Common Stock We anticipate our common stock will be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. Our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market. The listing standards of The NASDAQ Capital Market require that a company maintain stockholders’ equity of at least $2.5 million and a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share. During 2009 our minimum bid price fell below $1.00 per share and we received notice from The NASDAQ Stock Market (Nasdaq) that we did not satisfy the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement. Our stock price subsequently closed above $1.00 for ten consecutive business days and on January 7, 2010, we received notice from Nasdaq confirming that we had regained compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market. Consequently, the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel determined to continue the listing of our securities on The NASDAQ Capital Market. On May 18, 2010, we received a letter from Nasdaq indicating that the minimum closing bid price of our common stock had fallen below $1.00 for 30 consecutive days, and therefore, we were not in compliance with the listing standards. On November 17, 2010, we received a second letter from the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Staff indicating that we had not regained compliance with Listing Rule 5550(a)(2), which requires the closing bid price of the Company’s common stock to be $1.00 or more. The second letter from Nasdaq stated the Company’s securities would be subject to delisting from The NASDAQ Capital Market, effective November 29, 2010, unless we requested a hearing before a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel (Panel). We met with the Panel in January 2011 and presented our plan for regaining compliance with all applicable listing requirements. The hearing resulted in the Company’s shares remaining listed on The NASDAQ 33 Table of Contents Capital Market at least until such time as the Panel renders its decision following the hearing. In March 2011, we received a letter from Nasdaq stating that they had determined to grant us additional time to regain compliance pursuant to our plan. Concurrent with our filing of the 2010 10-K, we have notified Nasdaq that we do not anticipate regaining compliance with all the applicable listing requirements by the time stated in the plan presented to the Panel. If the Panel determines to delist the Company’s securities from The NASDAQ Capital Market, the Company’s common stock is expected to be eligible for trading on the OTCQB, which is operated by OTC Markets, Inc. If our common stock is delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, it could reduce the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our access to the capital markets, and any limitation on liquidity or reduction in the price of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Delisting from The NASDAQ Capital Market could also result in other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. Our common stock has historically been volatile, with a trading price ranging from $0.30 to $3.14 over the past five years. The stock markets, in general, and the markets for drug delivery and pharmaceutical stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the limited trading volume of our stock may contribute to its volatility. Price declines in our common stock could result from general market and economic conditions and a variety of other factors, including: • delisting from The NASDAQ Capital Market; • our ability to raise capital in the face of continuing cash depletion; • non-approval of our product candidates, or delays in the FDA review process, particularly with respect to APF530, which we received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA in March 2010; • adverse actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our product candidates, clinical trials, manufacturing processes or sales and marketing activities; • continuing losses and failure to achieve or maintain profitability; • adverse results, lack of success or delays in our clinical trials of our product candidates, including APF530; • delays in preclinical and clinical testing; • failure to substantiate the capability of our drug delivery technology; • failure to attain adequate market acceptance by healthcare professionals and patients; • failure of our contract manufacturers and collaborators to perform their contractual obligations as expected; • failure to comply with continuing federal, state and foreign regulations; • market conditions relating to our segment of the industry or the securities markets in general; • any lawsuit involving us or our product candidates; • announcements concerning our competitors, or the biotechnology or pharmaceutical industries in general; • changes in accounting principles; and 34 Table of Contents • loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, litigation has often been brought against that company. If litigation of this type is brought against us, it could be extremely expensive and divert management’s attention and our company’s resources. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and stockholder rights plan may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our board of directors. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders; and • providing for dilutive issuance of preferred stock, commonly referred to as a “poison pill”, which can be triggered after a person or a group acquires 20% or more of our common stock, except Tang Capital Partners and its affiliates, and Baker Brothers Investments and its affiliates, for which the potentially triggering levels of ownership are 34% and 30%, respectively. In addition, Section 203 of Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company by prohibiting stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us, unless certain approvals are obtained. Further concentration in stockholder ownership could influence strategic actions. Our directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and affiliated entities currently beneficially own or control a majority of our outstanding securities. In October 2009, Tang Capital Partners, LP and its affiliates, increased their beneficial ownership in our common stock to 31%, and Baker Brothers Investments and its affiliates increased their beneficial ownership in our common stock to 22%. Kevin C. Tang, the Managing Director of Tang Capital Management, LLC, the general partner of Tang Capital Partners, LP, is also a member of our board. Baker Brothers Investments was granted the right to designate a representative to our Board of Directors. In February 2010, Stephen R. Davis was appointed to our Board of Directors as the Baker Brothers Investments designee. The right granted to Baker Brothers Investments to designate an additional representative to our board of directors should it exercise its right to purchase designated additional shares of our common stock under the terms of the securities purchase agreements for the October 2009 financing expired on May 14, 2010. Mr. Davis resigned from our Board on February 23, 2011. Such a concentration of common stock ownership could significantly influence corporate actions on various strategic matters, including, for example, receptivity to collaborations and merger or sale overtures. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. Our principal stockholders and affiliated entities hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock that they are able to sell in the public market. In addition, they currently own outstanding warrants exercisable through January 7, 2015 for additional shares of our common stock. The exercise of these warrants or the sale by our current stockholders of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation that such exercises or sales may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Future utilization of net operating loss carryforwards may be impaired due to recent changes in ownership. As discussed in Note 11 to the Financial Statements, we believe our net operating losses and tax attributes may be subject to limitation under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. As a result, our deferred tax assets, and 35 Table of Contents related valuation allowance, have been reduced for the estimated impact of the net operating losses and credits that we currently estimate may expire unused. Utilization of our remaining net operating loss and research and development credit carryforwards may still be subject to substantial annual limitations due to ownership change limitations provided by the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions for ownership changes after December 31, 2010, including those that may come in conjunction with future equity financings or market trades by our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Available Information We make available free of charge on or through our Internet website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our Internet website address is “www.appharma.com.” The reference to our Internet website does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on or hyperlinked from our Internet website. We file electronically with the SEC, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy information and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is http://www.sec.gov. The materials are also available at the SEC’s Public Reference Room, located at 100 F Street, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information through the public reference room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 