ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. You should consider carefully these risk factors and all of the other information included in this Form 10-K. Any of these risk factors could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Going Concern—See “Going Concern” in Note 1 of Notes to Financial Statements, in which we discuss the need to obtain additional financing in 2007. Risks Related To Our Business We have a history of losses, we expect to generate losses in the near future, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have suffered recurring losses and had an accumulated deficit of $87.8 million as of December 31, 2006. We expect to continue to generate substantial losses over at least the next several years as we: • expand drug product development efforts; • conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials; and • pursue additional applications for our existing delivery technologies. To achieve and sustain profitability, we must, alone or with others, successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, market and sell our products. We will incur substantial expenses in our efforts to develop and commercialize products and we may never generate sufficient revenue to become profitable or to sustain profitability. We may require additional capital to conduct our operations and to develop our products. Such funding may not be available on commercially favorable terms and may cause dilution to our existing stockholders. We may require additional capital resources in order to conduct our operations and develop our products. We may not be able to obtain required funding on favorable terms and required funding may cause dilution to our existing stockholders. The timing and degree of any future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the number of product development programs we pursue and the pace of each program; • the scope, rate of progress, results and costs of preclinical testing and clinical trials; • the time and costs involved in seeking regulatory approvals; • scientific progress in our research and development programs; • the magnitude and scope of our research and development programs; 19 • A. P. PHARMA • 2006 ANNUAL REPORT Table of Contents • our ability to establish and maintain strategic collaborations or partnerships for research, development, clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing; and • market conditions and other factors. We intend to acquire additional funding through sales of our common stock or other company securities, and/or strategic collaborations, in the form of license fees, research and development fees and milestone payments. If we issue additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities to raise funds, our stockholders will suffer dilution of their investment and it may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the event that additional funds are obtained through arrangements with collaborative partners, these arrangements may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to develop and commercialize ourselves. If adequate funds are not available, we will be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our product development programs and reduce personnel-related and other costs, which will have a material adverse effect on our business. See "Going Concern" in Note 1 of Notes to Financial Statements, in which we discuss the need to obtain additional financing in 2007. We are substantially dependent upon the success of our APF530 product candidate. Clinical trials for this product may not demonstrate efficacy or lead to regulatory approval. We will not be able to commercialize our lead product candidate, APF530, until we obtain regulatory approval in the United States or foreign countries. To satisfy FDA or foreign regulatory approval standards for the commercial sale of our product candidates, we must demonstrate in adequate and controlled clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier clinical trials. Our lead product candidate, APF530, is designed to provide at least five days prevention of CINV. In September 2005, we completed a Phase II human clinical trial of APF530 that achieved all of its primary and secondary endpoints. In May 2006, we initiated our pivotal Phase III clinical trial of AFP530. Although, we believe that this clinical trial will lead to regulatory approval of APF530 for the prevention of acute and delayed onset CINV for patients undergoing both moderately and highly emetogenic, or vomit-inducing, chemotherapy, the results of initial preclinical testing and clinical trials to date do not necessarily predict the results that we will get from subsequent or more extensive preclinical testing and clinical trials. Clinical trials of APF530 and our other product candidates may not demonstrate that they are safe and effective to the extent necessary to obtain regulatory approvals. If we cannot adequately demonstrate through the clinical trial process that the product we are developing is safe and effective, regulatory approval of that product would be delayed or prevented, which would impair our reputation, increase our costs and prevent us from earning revenue. We may not obtain regulatory approval for our products. Regulatory approval may also be delayed or cancelled or may entail limitations on the indicated uses of a proposed product. The regulatory process, particularly for biopharmaceutical products like ours, is uncertain, can take many years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Any product that we or our collaborative partners develop must receive all relevant regulatory agency approvals or clearances, if any, before it may be marketed in the United States or other countries. In partic - - A. P. PHARMA • 2006 ANNUAL REPORT • 20 Table of Contents ular, human pharmaceutical therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical testing and other requirements by the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, in the United States and similar health authorities in foreign countries. We may not receive necessary regulatory approvals or clearances to market APF530 or any other product candidate. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities is susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory agency approvals or clearances. For example, the FDA may require additional clinical data to support approval, such as confirmatory studies, carcinogenicity studies and other data or studies to address questions or concerns that may arise during the FDA review process. Delays or rejections also may be encountered as a result of changes in regulatory agency policy during the period of product development and/or the period of review of any application for regulatory agency approval or clearance for a product. Delays in obtaining regulatory agency approvals or clearances could: • significantly harm the marketing of any products that we or our collaborators develop; • impose costly procedures upon our activities or the activities of our collaborators; • diminish any competitive advantages that we or our collaborative partners may attain; or • adversely affect our ability to receive royalties and generate revenue and profits. Even though we intend to apply for approval of most of our products in the United States under Section 505(b)(2) of the United States Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, which applies to reformulations of approved drugs and that may require smaller and shorter safety and efficacy testing than that for entirely new drugs, the approval process will still be costly, time-consuming and uncertain. We plan to file the NDA for APF530 under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA, to rely on previous FDA findings of safety and efficacy of the active ingredient in APF530, granisetron. While we believe that Section 505(b)(2) is applicable to APF530, it is possible that the FDA may disagree and require us to submit a “stand-alone” or “full” Section 505(b)(1) NDA, which would require significantly more clinical studies and or other data collection or analysis. We or our collaborators may not be able to obtain necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all, for any of our potential products. Even if granted, regulatory approvals may include significant limitations on the uses for which products may be marketed. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can, among other things, result in warning letters, imposition of civil penalties or other monetary payments, delay in approving or refusal to approve a product candidate, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recall or seizure, operating restrictions, interruption of clinical trials or manufacturing, injunctions and criminal prosecution. In addition, the marketing and manufacturing of drugs and biological products are subject to continuing FDA review, and later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, its manufacture or its marketing may result in the FDA requiring further clinical research or restrictions on the product or the manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Clinical trials are expensive and may not result in commercially viable products. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process. For example, we are incurring significant expenses in developing APF530, and even if approved, it may not result in a commercially viable product. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any products, we or our partners must demonstrate through preclinical testing 21 • A. P. PHARMA • 2006 ANNUAL REPORT Table of Contents and clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans. We have incurred, and we will continue to incur, substantial expense for, and devote a significant amount of time to, preclinical testing and clinical trials. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected by any delays in, or termination of, our clinical trials. Factors impacting our ability to generate revenue or become profitable include: • insufficient funds to continue necessary clinical trials; • inability to find partners willing to fund some or all of our clinical trial expenditures; • failure of clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products to the extent necessary to obtain regulatory approvals; • failure of preclinical testing and early clinical trials to predict results of later clinical trials; • delay in completion of clinical trials, resulting in increased costs; and • inability to obtain regulatory approval of our products following completion of clinical trials, or delays in obtaining such approvals. Delays in clinical testing could increase our costs and delay our ability to obtain regulatory approval and commercialize our product candidates. Before we or our collaborators can file for regulatory approval for the commercial sale of our potential products, the FDA will require extensive preclinical safety testing and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy. Significant delays in preclinical and clinical testing could materially impact our product development costs and delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. For example, enrollment in the Phase III trial for APF530 has been slower than we expected, resulting in delays in our development timeline and increased costs. Completing clinical trials in a timely manner depends on, among other factors: • obtaining regulatory approval to commence a trial; • obtaining clinical materials; • reaching agreement on acceptable clinical study terms with prospective sites and clinical research organizations; • obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a study at a prospective site; and • recruiting patients to participate in a study. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and their failure to perform their obligations in a timely and competent manner may delay development and commercialization of our product candidates. We are using a clinical research organization to oversee our ongoing clinical trial of APF530 and we expect to use the same or similar organizations for our future clinical trials. There are numerous alternative sources to provide these services; however, we A. P. PHARMA • 2006 ANNUAL REPORT • 22 Table of Contents may face delays outside of our control if these parties do not perform their obligations in a timely or competent fashion, or if we are forced to change service providers. If we experience significant delays in the progress of our clinical trials and in our plans to file NDAs, the commercial prospects for product candidates could decrease. Our polymer-based drug delivery technology is at an early stage of development, and we cannot be certain that such development will be successful. Our bioerodible drug delivery technology is at an early stage of development. We may not be able to substantiate the capability of our drug delivery technology for a variety of reasons: • selection of inappropriate therapeutic compound for delivery; • selection of inappropriate application for the particular product candidate; • failure to receive regulatory approval on a timely basis or at all; or • difficulties with manufacturing in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost. Successful development of delivery technologies will require significant preclinical and clinical testing prior to regulatory approval, if any. Because of these scientific, regulatory and commercial hurdles, any program could be abandoned or otherwise fail, even after significant resources have been expended. Recent changes in management may be disruptive. We had significant changes in management during 2006. On October 9, 2006, Michael O’Connell, our President and Chief Executive Officer began a temporary leave of absence for medical reasons. Effective that same date, Gregory Turnbull, formerly an independent director of the Company, began to serve as President and Chief Executive Officer until Mr. O’Connell’s return. Effective September 27, 2006, Stephen Whiteford was appointed the Company’s Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer to replace our former Chief Financial Officer who left the Company on September 12, 2006 to pursue another opportunity. Additions of new personnel and departures of existing personnel, particularly in key positions, can be disruptive, might lead to additional departures of existing personnel and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If any products that we or our collaborators may develop do not attain adequate market acceptance by healthcare professionals and patients, our business prospects and results of operations will suffer. Even if a product candidate receives regulatory approval for commercial sale, the revenue received or to be received from the sale of the product may not be significant and will depend on many factors that are outside of our control. Factors that may affect revenue from our product candidates, if and when approved, include: • perception of physicians and other members of the health care community of their safety and efficacy relative to that of competing products; 23 • A. P. PHARMA • 2006 ANNUAL REPORT Table of Contents • cost-effectiveness; • patient and physician satisfaction with these products; • ability to manufacture commercial products successfully and on a timely basis; • cost and availability of raw materials; • size of the markets for these products; • reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors; • unfavorable publicity concerning these products or similar drugs; • the introduction, availability and acceptance of competing treatments, including those of our collaborators; • adverse event information relating to these products; • product labeling or product insert required by the FDA or regulatory authorities in other countries; • regulatory developments related to the manufacture or continued use of these products; • extent and effectiveness of sales and marketing and distribution support for the products; and • our collaborators’ decisions as to the timing of product launches, pricing and discounting. Our product revenue will be adversely affected if, due to these or other factors, the products we or our collaborators are able to commercialize do not gain significant market acceptance. We depend on contract manufacturers and collaborators for manufacturing our products; if they do not perform as expected, our revenue and customer relations will suffer. We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities for the production of clinical or commercial quantities of any product. We rely on a small number of third-party manufacturers to produce our compounds and expect to continue to do so to meet the preclinical and clinical requirements of our potential products and for all of our commercial needs. We have no long-term agreements with any of these third parties. We may not be able to extend these agreements at satisfactory terms, or at all, and we may not be able to find a replacement contract manufacturer at satisfactory terms or on a timely basis. Further, our contract manufacturers and our collaborators are required to comply with FDA requirements related to product testing, quality assurance, manufacturing and records and documentation. Our contract manufacturers or our collaborators may not be able to comply with the applicable FDA regulatory requirements, which could result in an enforcement or other action, prevent commercialization of our product candidates and impair our reputation and results of operations. A. P. PHARMA • 2006 ANNUAL REPORT • 24 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with continuing federal, state and foreign regulations, we could lose our approvals to market drugs and our business would be seriously harmed. Following initial regulatory approval of any drugs we may develop, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including review of adverse drug experiences and clinical results that are reported after our drug products become commercially available. This would include results from any post-marketing tests or continued actions required as a condition of approval. The manufacturer and manufacturing facilities we use to make any of our drug candidates will be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. If a previously unknown problem or problems with a product or a manufacturing and laboratory facility used by us is discovered, the FDA or foreign regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or on the manufacturing facility, including requiring us to withdraw the product from the market. Any changes to an approved product, including the way it is manufactured or promoted, often require FDA approval before the product, as modified, can be marketed. We and our contract manufacturers will be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for submission of safety and other post-market information. If we and our contract manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters; • impose civil or criminal penalties; • suspend or withdraw our regulatory approval; • suspend or terminate any of our ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; • impose restrictions on our operations; • close the facilities of our contract manufacturers; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. Additionally, such regulatory review covers a company’s activities in the promotion of its drugs, with significant potential penalties and restrictions for promotion of drugs for an unapproved use. Sales and marketing programs are under scrutiny for compliance with various mandated requirements, such as illegal promotions to healthcare professionals. We are also required to submit information on our open and completed clinical trials to public registries and databases; failure to comply with these requirements could expose us to negative publicity, fines and penalties that could harm our business. If we are unable to recruit and retain skilled employees, we may not be able to achieve our objectives. We depend on a small number of key management and technical personnel. Retaining our current employees and recruiting qualified scientific personnel to perform future research and development work will be critical to our success. There is a shortage of skilled personnel in our industry, competition is intense for experienced scientists, and an inability to recruit or retain 25 • A. P. PHARMA • 2006 ANNUAL REPORT Table of Contents sufficient skilled personnel could result in delays to product development or approval, loss of sales and diversion of management resources. We face intense competition from other companies. We face intense competition from companies that are developing new formulations of existing drugs using novel drug delivery technologies. Many of our competitors have much greater financial, research and development, manufacturing, marketing, sales, distribution and managerial resources and experience than we do. Many of them also have much more experience than we do in preclinical testing and clinical trials of new drugs and in obtaining FDA and foreign regulatory approvals. The following are our major competitors: • Alkermes, Inc. • Depomed, Inc. • Durect Corporation • ProStrakan Group PLC • SkyePharma PLC Additionally, APF530 is expected to face competition from MGI Pharma’s Aloxi, Roche’s Kytril, GlaxoSmithKline’s Zofran, and Aventis’ Anzemet, each of which is currently on the market, as well as Hana Biosciences’ Zensana. We are also aware of several companies developing both generic and new formulations of granisetron. APF112 is expected to face competition from Durect’s Posidur and SkyePharma’s recently divested DepoBupivacaine. Most or all of the products we could develop or commercialize will face competition from different therapeutic agents intended for treatment of the same indications or from other products incorporating drug delivery technologies. The competition potentially includes all of the pharmaceutical and drug delivery companies in the world. To the extent that we develop or market products incorporating drugs that are off-patent, or are being developed by multiple companies, we will face competition from other companies developing and marketing similar products. Major technological changes can happen quickly in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, and the development of technologically improved or different products or drug delivery technologies may make our product candidates or platform technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. Because we or our collaborators must obtain regulatory approval to market our products in the United States and foreign jurisdictions, we cannot predict whether or when we will be permitted to commercialize our products. Federal, state and local governments in the United States and governments in other countries have significant regulations in place that govern many of our activities. The preclinical testing and clinical trials of the products that we develop ourselves or A. P. PHARMA • 2006 ANNUAL REPORT • 26 Table of Contents that our collaborators develop are subject to government regulation and may prevent us from creating commercially viable products from our discoveries. These regulations and their application may change making it more difficult or prohibitive to develop our products. In addition, the sale by us or our collaborators of any commercially viable product will be subject to government regulation from several standpoints, including the processes of: • manufacturing; • labeling; • distributing; • advertising and promoting; and • selling and marketing. We depend on our collaborators to help us complete the process of developing and testing our products. Our strategy for the development, clinical testing and commercialization of our products requires entering into collaborations with corporate partners, licensors, licensees and others. These collaborations are critical to our success in bringing our products and product candidates to the market and promoting such marketed products profitably. We are dependent upon the subsequent success of these other parties in performing their respective responsibilities and the cooperation of our partners. Our collaborators may not cooperate with us or perform their obligations under our agreements with them. We cannot control the amount and timing of our collaborators’ resources that will be devoted to our research activities related to our collaborative agreements with them. Our collaborators may choose to pursue existing or alternative technologies in preference to those being developed in collaboration with us. Failure to make or maintain these arrangements or a delay in a collaborative partner’s performance or factors that may affect our partner’s sales may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under agreements with collaborators, we may rely significantly on them, among other activities, to: • fund research and development activities with us; • pay us fees upon the achievement of milestones; and • market with us any commercial products that result from our collaborations. Our business strategy includes the entry into additional collaborative agreements. We may not be able to enter into additional collaborative agreements or may not be able to negotiate commercially acceptable terms for these agreements. Our current business strategy includes the entry into additional collaborative agreements for the development and commercialization of our delivery technologies. The negotiation and consummation of these types of agreements typically involve simulta - - 27 • A. P. PHARMA • 2006 ANNUAL REPORT Table of Contents neous discussions with multiple potential collaborators and require significant time and resources from our officers, business development, legal and research and development staff. In addition, in attracting the attention of pharmaceutical and biotechnology company collaborators, we compete with numerous other third parties with product opportunities as well the collaborators’ own internal product opportunities. We may not be able to consummate additional collaborative agreements, or we may not be able to negotiate commercially acceptable terms for these agreements. If we do not consummate additional collaborative agreements, we may have to consume money more rapidly on our product development efforts, defer development activities or forego the exploitation of certain geographic territories, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we or our collaborators cannot arrange for adequate third-party reimbursement for our products, our revenue will suffer. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our potential products will depend in substantial part on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third-party payors such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Third-party payors often challenge the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services and such pressure may increase in the future. Significant uncertainty exists as to the adequate reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Any products we are able to successfully develop may not be reimbursable by third-party payors. In addition, our products may not be considered cost-effective and adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize a profit. Legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before our products are approved for marketing and any such changes could further limit reimbursement. If any products we develop do not receive adequate reimbursement, our revenue will be severely limited. Our inability to obtain specialized materials could slow down our research and development process. Some of the critical materials and components used in our products in development are sourced from a single supplier. An interruption in supply of a key material could significantly delay our research and development process or increase our expenses. Specialized materials must often be manufactured for the first time for use in drug delivery technologies, or materials may be used in the technologies in a manner different from their customary commercial uses. The quality of materials can be critical to the performance of a drug delivery technology, so a reliable source of a consistent supply of materials is important. Materials or components needed for our drug delivery technologies may be difficult to obtain on commercially reasonable terms, particularly when relatively small quantities are required, or if the materials traditionally have not been used in pharmaceutical products. If we are unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to third-party patents, we may lose valuable assets, experience reduced market share or incur costly litigation to protect our rights or our third-party collaborators may choose to terminate their agreements with us. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We have filed a number of U. S. patent applications on inventions relating to the composition of a variety of polymers, specific products, product groups and processing technology. In addition to obtaining patents in a number of foreign countries, we have also filed U.S. and foreign patent applications on our polymer technology with the Patent A. P. PHARMA • 2006 ANNUAL REPORT • 28 Table of Contents Cooperation Treaty (PCT), the European Patent Office, Australia, Canada, China, Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea, Singapore and Taiwan. We have a total of 21 issued United States patents and an additional 113 issued (or registered) foreign patents. The patents on the bioerodible technologies expire between January 2016 and November 2022. Our existing patents may not cover future products, additional patents may not be issued, and current patents or patents issued in the future may not provide meaningful protection or prove to be of commercial benefit. The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies, including ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. In addition, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. Consequently, our patent applications or those that are licensed to us may not issue into patents, and any issued patents may not provide protection against competitive technologies or may be held invalid if challenged or circumvented. Our competitors may also independently develop products similar to ours or design around or otherwise circumvent patents issued to us or licensed by us. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the U. S. law. We are party to several collaborative agreements. These agreements subject us to obligations which must be fulfilled and require us to manage complex relationships with third parties. If we are unable to meet our obligations or manage our relationships with our collaborators under these agreements or enter into additional collaboration agreements or if our existing collaborations are terminated, our revenue may decrease. Our third-party collaborators have entered into these agreements based on the exclusivity that our intellectual property rights confer on the products being developed. The loss or diminution of our intellectual property rights could result in a decision by our third-party collaborators to terminate their agreements with us. In addition, these agreements are generally complex and contain provisions that could give rise to legal disputes, including potential disputes concerning ownership of intellectual property and data under collaborations. Such disputes can lead to lengthy, expensive litigation or arbitration requiring us to devote management time and resources to such dispute which we would otherwise spend on our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We require our employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to execute appropriate confidentiality and assignment-of-inventions agreements with us. These agreements typically provide that all materials and confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual’s relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances, and that all inventions arising out of the individual’s relationship with us shall be our exclusive property. These agreements may be breached, and in some instances, we may not have an appropriate remedy available for breach of the agreements. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, reverse engineer our information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology. We may be unable to meaningfully protect our rights in trade secrets, technical know-how and other non-patented technology. We may have to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. In addition, interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications. Enforcing or defending our proprietary rights is expensive, could cause diversion of our resources and may not prove successful. Any failure to enforce or protect our rights could cause us to lose the ability to exclude others from using our technology to develop or sell competing products. 29 • A. P. PHARMA • 2006 ANNUAL REPORT Table of Contents We may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, and any litigation could force us to stop developing or selling potential products and could be costly, divert management attention and harm our business. We must be able to develop products without infringing the proprietary rights of other parties. Because the markets in which we operate involve established competitors with significant patent portfolios, including patents relating to the composition of a variety of polymers, specific products, product groups and processing technology, it could be difficult for us to use our technologies or develop products without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We may not be able to design around the patented technologies or inventions of others and we may not be able to obtain licenses to use patented technologies on acceptable terms, or at all. If we cannot operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others, we will not earn product revenue. If we are required to defend ourselves in a lawsuit, we could incur substantial costs and the lawsuit could divert management attention, regardless of the lawsuit’s merit or outcome. These legal actions could seek damages and seek to enjoin testing, manufacturing and marketing of the accused product or process. In addition to potential liability for significant damages, we could be required to obtain a license to continue to manufacture or market the accused product or process and any license required under any such patent may not be made available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Periodically, we review publicly available information regarding the development efforts of others in order to determine whether these efforts may violate our proprietary rights. We may determine that litigation is necessary to enforce our proprietary rights against others. Such litigation could result in substantial expense, regardless of its outcome, and may not be resolved in our favor. Furthermore, patents already issued to us or our pending patent applications may become subject to dispute, and any disputes could be resolved against us. In addition, because patent applications in the United States are currently maintained in secrecy for a period of time prior to issuance, and patent applications in certain other countries generally are not published until more than 18 months after they are first filed, and because publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first creator of inventions covered by our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications on such inventions. We are exposed to risks and increased expenses as a result of laws requiring non-accelerated filers to evaluate internal controls over financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year beginning with the year ending December 31, 2007, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financing reporting in our annual report on Form 10-K for each fiscal year. Section 404 also requires our independent auditors to attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting beginning with the year ending December 31, 2008. We have implemented an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing we believe to be necessary to comply with these requirements. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts. We expect to incur increased expense and to devote additional management resources to Section 404 compliance. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation or operation of these controls, could harm A. P. PHARMA • 2006 ANNUAL REPORT • 30 Table of Contents our operating results and cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, which could adversely affect our business and reduce our stock price. Legislative actions, potential new accounting pronouncements and higher insurance costs are likely to impact our future financial position or results of operations. Future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse, unexpected fluctuations in the timing of the recognition of revenue or expenses and may affect our financial position or results of operations. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred with frequency and may occur in the future and we may make changes in our accounting policies in the future. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, pronouncements and The NASDAQ Global Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours and insurance, accounting and auditing costs are increasing as a result of this uncertainty and other factors. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. We could be exposed to significant product liability claims that could be time consuming and costly to defend, divert management attention and adversely impact our ability to obtain and maintain insurance coverage The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of our products involve an inherent risk that product liability claims will be asserted against us. Although we are insured against such risks up to an annual aggregate limit in connection with clinical trials and commercial sales of our products, our present product liability insurance may be inadequate and may not fully cover the costs of any claim or any ultimate damages we might be required to pay. Product liability claims or other claims related to our products, regardless of their outcome, could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Any successful product liability claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable or reasonable terms. In addition, product liability coverage may cease to be available in sufficient amounts or at an acceptable cost. An inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products. A product liability claim could also significantly harm our reputation and delay market acceptance of our products. Our use of hazardous materials could subject us to liabilities, fines and sanctions. Our laboratory and clinical testing sometimes involve use of hazardous and toxic materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing how we use, manufacture, handle, store and dispose of these materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply in all material respects with all federal, state and local regulations and standards, there is always the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result and such liability could exceed our financial resources. Compliance with environmental and other laws may be expensive and current or future regulations may impair our development or commercialization efforts. 31 • A. P. PHARMA • 2006 ANNUAL REPORT Table of Contents Risks Related To Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile. The stock markets in general, and the markets for biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the limited trading volume of our stock may contribute to its volatility. Price declines in our common stock could result from general market and economic conditions and a variety of other factors, including: • continuing losses and failure to achieve or maintain profitability; • lack of availability of additional capital funding on commercial favorable terms to conduct operations and develop products; • adverse results, lack of success or delays in our clinical trials of our product candidates, including APF530; • announcements of FDA non-approval of our product candidates, or delays in the FDA review process; • adverse actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our product candidates, clinical trials, manufacturing processes or sales and marketing activities; • delays in preclinical and clinical testing; • failure of third parties to perform their clinical trial obligations in a timely or competent manner; • failure to substantiate the capability of our drug delivery technology; • failure to attain adequate market acceptance by healthcare professionals and patients; • failure of our contract manufacturers and collaborators to perform as expected; • failure to comply with continuing federal, state and foreign regulations; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors; • any lawsuit involving us or our product candidates; • announcements concerning our competitors, or the biotechnology or pharmaceutical industries in general; • changes in accounting principles; and • loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel. A. P. PHARMA • 2006 ANNUAL REPORT • 32 Table of Contents In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, litigation has often been brought against that company. If litigation of this type is brought against us, it could be extremely expensive and divert management’s attention and our company’s resources. Our common stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. The listing standards of The NASDAQ Global Market provide that a company may be delisted if the bid price of its stock drops below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days. Additionally, issuers must maintain either (i) stockholders’ equity of at least $10 million or (ii) total assets and total revenue of at least $50 million, or total market value of listed securities of at least $50 million. As of the end of the third fiscal quarter of 2005, we failed to meet the $10 million stockholders’ equity requirement, although we regained compliance with that requirement in January 2006. If we fail to comply with all listing standards applicable to issuers listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market. If our common stock is delisted, it could reduce the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our access to the capital markets, and any limitation on liquidity or reduction in the price of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market could also result in other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our board of directors. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders; and • providing for dilutive issuance of preferred stock, commonly referred to as a “poison pill”, which can be triggered after a person or a group acquires 20% or more of our common stock. In addition, Section 203 of Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company by prohibiting stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us, unless certain approvals are obtained. 33 • A. P. PHARMA • 2006 ANNUAL REPORT Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Available Information We make available free of charge on or through our Internet website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Internet website address is “www.appharma.com.” The reference to our Internet website does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on or hyperlinked from our Internet website. We file electronically with the Securities and Exchange commission, or SEC, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy information and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is http://www.sec.gov. The materials are also available at the SEC’s Public Reference Room, located at 100 F Street, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information through the public reference room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 