ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. You should consider carefully these risk factors and all of the other information included in this Form 10-K. Any of these risk factors could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. These risks are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our securities. Before you decide whether to purchase any of our common stock, you should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as may be updated from time to time by our future filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Risks Related To Our Business We are substantially dependent upon the success of our APF530 product candidate. Clinical trial results and the NDA resubmission for this product may not lead to regulatory approval. We have invested a significant portion of our time and financial resources in the development of our most advanced product candidate, APF530, for which we are seeking U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for the prevention of acute chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) associated with both moderately and highly emetogenic chemotherapy and for the prevention of delayed CINV associated with moderately emetogenic chemotherapy. Our near-term ability to generate revenues and our future success, in large part, depends on the approval and successful commercialization of APF530. 21 Table of Contents We will not be able to commercialize APF530 until we obtain regulatory approval in the United States or foreign countries. In order to satisfy FDA or foreign regulatory approval standards for the commercial sale of APF530, we must have demonstrated in adequate and controlled clinical trials that APF530 is safe and effective. APF530 is designed to provide at least five days prevention of CINV. In September 2012, we resubmitted the New Drug Application (NDA) seeking approval for APF530 with the FDA, and the FDA has set a Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) action date of March 27, 2013. If the FDA does not approve our NDA or requests additional work or changes to the NDA, our continued ability to commercialize APF530 could be seriously impaired, and our business would be adversely impacted. Obtaining regulatory approval of APF530 for the prevention of acute CINV for both moderately and highly emetogenic chemotherapy, and for the prevention of delayed CINV in moderately emetogenic chemotherapy, is subject to many variables. The FDA has inspected our facilities and those of our suppliers and has issued certain findings relating to cGMP processes for the manufacturing of APF530. We and our suppliers have responded to these findings, but there can be no assurance that these responses were sufficient. Further, the FDA’s review may not produce positive decisions as to: • whether APF530 is safe and effective in its proposed use(s) and whether its benefits outweigh the risks; • whether the proposed labeling (package insert) for APF530 is appropriate and what it should contain; and • whether the methods used in manufacturing APF530 and the controls used to maintain its quality are adequate to preserve its identity, strength, quality and purity. Deficiencies on any of the above, or other factors, could prevent or delay obtaining regulatory approval of APF530, which would impair our reputation, increase our costs and prevent us from earning revenue. We may not obtain regulatory approval for APF530 or any of our product candidates. Regulatory approval may also be delayed or cancelled or may entail limitations on the indicated uses of a proposed product. The process for obtaining approval of an NDA is time consuming, subject to unanticipated delays and costs, and requires the commitment of substantial resources. The regulatory process, particularly for pharmaceutical product candidates like ours, is uncertain, can take many years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Any product that we or our collaborative partners develop must receive all relevant regulatory agency approvals or clearances, if any, before it may be marketed in the United States or other countries. In particular, human pharmaceutical therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical testing and other requirements by the FDA in the United States and similar health authorities in foreign countries. We may not receive necessary regulatory approvals or clearances to market APF530 or any other product candidate. In September 2012, we resubmitted the NDA seeking approval for APF530 with the FDA, and the FDA has set a PDUFA action date of March 27, 2013. Our NDA resubmission for APF530 may not be approved, or approval may be delayed, as a result of changes in FDA policies for drug approval prior to the FDA’s decision on our NDA. For example, although many products have been approved by the FDA in recent years under Section 505(b)(2) under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, objections have been raised to the FDA’s interpretation of Section 505(b)(2). If challenges to the FDA’s interpretation of Section 505(b)(2) are successful, the Agency may be required to change its interpretation, which could delay or prevent the approval of our NDA for APF530. The review of our resubmitted NDA may also be delayed due to the FDA’s internal resource constraints. 22 Table of Contents Additionally, data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory agency approvals or clearances. For example, the FDA may require additional clinical data to support approval, such as confirmatory studies and other data or studies to address questions or concerns that may arise during the FDA review process. Delays in obtaining regulatory approval for APF530, or the issuance of a second Complete Response letter, would, among other consequences, delay the launch of APF530 and adversely affect our ability to generate revenue from sales of this product and adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital that would be necessary to sustain our operations. Given the additional delays that we would face prior to obtaining approval for APF530, if such approval is ever granted, we may need significant additional capital to fund our operations. Even if granted, regulatory approvals may include significant limitations on the uses for which products may be marketed. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can, among other things, result in warning letters, imposition of civil penalties or other monetary payments, delay in approving or refusal to approve a product candidate, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recall or seizure, operating restrictions, interruption of clinical trials or manufacturing, injunctions and criminal prosecution. In addition, the marketing and manufacturing of drugs and biological products are subject to continuing FDA review, and later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, its manufacture or its marketing may result in the FDA requiring further clinical research or restrictions on the product or the manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. If APF530 is approved, but does not attain market acceptance by healthcare professionals and patients, our business prospects and results of operations will suffer. Even if APF530 receives regulatory approval for commercial sale, the revenue that we may receive from the sale of APF530 may be less than expected and will depend on many factors that are outside of our control. Factors that may affect revenue from APF530, if approved, include; • perception of physicians and other members of the health care community of the safety and efficacy relative to that of competing products; • cost-effectiveness; • patient and physician satisfaction with the product; • ability to manufacture commercial product successfully and on a timely basis; • cost and availability of raw materials; • market size for the product; • reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors; 23 Table of Contents • unfavorable publicity concerning the product or similar drugs; • the introduction, availability and acceptance of competing treatments, including those of our collaborators; • adverse event information relating to the product; • product liability litigation alleging injuries relating to the product; • product labeling or product insert language required by the FDA or regulatory authorities in other countries; • the regulatory developments related to the manufacture or continued use of the product; • extent and effectiveness of sales and marketing and distribution support for the product; and • our collaborators’ decisions as to the timing of product launches, pricing and discounting. Our product revenue will be adversely affected if, due to these or other factors, the products we or our collaborators are able to commercialize do not gain significant market acceptance. We have a history of losses, we expect to generate losses in the near future, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred recurring losses and had an accumulated deficit of $183.6 million as of December 31, 2012. We expect to continue to generate substantial losses over at least the next several years as we: • expand drug product development and commercialization efforts; • conduct preclinical development and clinical trials; and • pursue additional applications for our existing delivery technologies. To achieve and sustain profitability, we must, alone or with others, successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, market and sell our products. If APF530 is approved for commercialization, we must successfully launch and commercialize the product. If APF530 is not approved, we will likely experience significant delays before we begin to recognize meaningful levels of revenue, if ever. We will incur substantial expenses in our efforts to develop and commercialize products and we may never generate sufficient revenue to become profitable or to sustain profitability. Additional capital may be needed to enable us to implement our business plan, and we may be unable to raise capital, which would force us to limit or cease our operations and related product development programs. Raising such capital may have to be accomplished on unfavorable terms, likely causing dilution to our existing stockholders. At December 31, 2012, the Company had cash and cash equivalents in the amount of $53.5 million. We believe that our current working capital balance is sufficient to fund our operations into 2014. 24 Table of Contents We are pursuing commercialization of APF530 without a partner for the U.S. market, which will likely require us to obtain additional funding and resources to sustain our operations until we can achieve profitability. The need for and amount of additional funding that we may require depends on various factors, including the results of the on-going regulatory review by the FDA of our APF530 NDA resubmission, the time and costs related to manufacturing of APF530, if approved, and technological and market developments of drugs that may compete with APF530. There can be no assurance that APF530 will be approved and, if approved, that we will be successful in obtaining the additional necessary financial resources and expertise, with or without a partner, that will be required to launch APF530. We may not be able to raise sufficient additional capital when we need it on favorable or any terms. If we are unable to obtain adequate funds, we may be required to curtail significantly or cease operations. The timing and degree of any future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the number and characteristics of product development programs we pursue and the pace of each program; • the scope, rate of progress, results and costs of preclinical testing and clinical trials; • the time, cost and outcome involved in seeking regulatory approvals; • scientific progress in our research and development programs; • the magnitude and scope of our research and development programs; • our ability to establish and maintain strategic collaborations or partnerships for research, development, clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates; • the cost and timing of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities for a specialty sales force if we commercialize any products independently; • the cost of establishing clinical and commercial supplies of our product candidates and any products that we may develop; and • general market conditions. If we issue additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities to raise funds, our stockholders will suffer dilution of their investment, and such issuance may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Any debt financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include, among other things, limitations on borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem capital stock or make investments. In the event that additional funds are obtained through arrangements with collaborative partners, these arrangements may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products on terms that are not favorable to us or require us to enter into a collaboration arrangement that we would otherwise seek to develop and commercialize ourselves. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our product development programs and reduce personnel-related and other costs, which will have a material adverse effect on our business. 25 Table of Contents The general economic environment in which we operate is experiencing continued weakness and volatility. Our ability to secure the additional capital that may be necessary for implementation of our longer-term business plans may be diminished due to the continuing volatile business conditions and financial markets. For example, the difficulty in obtaining additional capital necessary to develop our other product candidates has led us to temporarily suspend certain development programs in recent years. If the economic environment continues its weak recovery and financial markets continue to experience significant volatility, we may have increasing difficulty in raising additional capital when needed. We may depend on collaborators as a source of capital and to help us complete the process of developing and testing our products. Our strategy for the development, clinical testing and commercialization of our products may require entering into collaborations with corporate partners, licensors, licensees and others. These collaborations may be critical to funding our operations and our success in bringing our products and product candidates to the market and promoting such marketed products profitably. We could be dependent upon the subsequent success of these other parties in performing their respective responsibilities and the cooperation of our partners. Our collaborators may not cooperate with us or perform their obligations under our agreements with them. We cannot control the amount and timing of our collaborators’ resources that will be devoted to our research activities related to our collaborative agreements with them. Our collaborators may choose to pursue existing or alternative technologies in preference to those being developed in collaboration with us. We may prioritize other programs ahead of collaboration activities such that funding from these other parties could be reduced or deferred. Failure to make or maintain these arrangements, or a delay in a collaborative partner’s performance, or factors that may affect our partner’s sales may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under agreements with collaborators, we may rely significantly on them, among other activities, to: • fund research and development activities with us; • pay us fees upon the achievement of milestones; and • market for or with us any commercial products that result from our collaborations. Suspension of our pipeline development program will delay potential realization of value from new products. Further development of our pipeline products has been temporarily deferred in order to focus managerial and financial resources on seeking approval of the APF530 NDA. This action has delayed the planned development of these other product candidates, reducing their potential commercial value. Clinical trials are expensive and may not result in commercially viable products. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process. For example, we have incurred significant expenses in developing APF530 and, even if approved, it may not result in a commercially viable product. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any products, we, or our partners, must demonstrate through preclinical testing 26 Table of Contents and clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective for their intended uses in humans. We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial expense and devote a significant amount of time to preclinical testing and clinical trials. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected by any delays in, or termination of, our clinical trials. Factors impacting our ability to generate commercially viable products through the conduct of clinical trials include: • insufficient funds to conduct clinical trials; • inability to find partners; • failure of clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates to the extent necessary to obtain regulatory approvals; • failure by us or third-party investigators, contract research organizations, or other third parties involved in the research to adhere to regulatory requirements applicable to the conduct of clinical trials; • failure of preclinical testing and early clinical trials to predict results of later clinical trials; • delay in completion of clinical trials, resulting in increased costs; and • inability to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates following completion of clinical trials, or delays in obtaining such approvals. There can be no assurance that if our clinical trials are successfully initiated and completed we will be able to obtain approval by the FDA in the United States or similar regulatory authorities elsewhere in the world in a timely manner, if at all. If we fail to successfully develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to attain profitability and our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be damaged, each of which would cause our stock price to decrease. Delays in clinical testing could increase our costs and delay our ability to obtain regulatory approval and commercialize our product candidates. Before we, or our collaborators, can receive regulatory approval for the commercial sale of our potential products, the FDA requires extensive preclinical safety testing and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy. Significant delays in preclinical and clinical testing could materially impact our product development costs and delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. For example, enrollment in the Phase 3 clinical trial for APF530 was slower than we expected, resulting in delays in our development timeline and increased costs. Completing clinical trials in a timely manner depends on, among other factors: • obtaining regulatory approval to commence a trial; • obtaining clinical materials; • reaching agreement on acceptable clinical study terms with prospective sites and clinical research organizations; • obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a study at a prospective site; and 27 Table of Contents • recruiting patients to participate in a study. Additionally, our current suspension of development work on our pipeline products will delay clinical testing of these products and their possible regulatory approvals, potentially reducing the remaining life of patents and the eventual competitiveness and commercial values of these candidates. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and their failure to perform their obligations in a timely and competent manner may delay development and commercialization of our product candidates. We used clinical research organizations in the United States, Asia and Europe to oversee our clinical trials for APF530 and we expect to use the same or similar organizations for our future clinical trials. There are numerous alternative sources to provide these services; however, we may face delays outside of our control if these parties do not perform their obligations in a timely or competent fashion, or if we are forced to change service providers. Different cultural and operational issues in foreign countries could cause delays or unexpected problems with the patient enrollments or with the data obtained from those locations. If we experience significant delays in the progress of our clinical trials or problems with the quality of data derived from clinical trials, the prospects for approval would decrease. We have yet to demonstrate the full commercial viability of our delivery technology, and we cannot be certain that attainment of such a goal can be accomplished. Our bioerodible drug delivery technology is at an early stage of development. We may not be able to substantiate the capability of our drug delivery technology for a variety of reasons, including: • selection of inappropriate therapeutic compound for delivery; • selection of inappropriate use or application for the particular product candidate; • failure to receive regulatory approval on a timely basis or at all; or • difficulties with manufacturing in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost. Successful development of delivery technologies requires significant preclinical and clinical testing prior to regulatory approval. Because of these scientific, regulatory and commercial hurdles, any program could be abandoned or otherwise fail, even after significant resources have been expended. If our suppliers and contract manufacturers fail to complete pre-commercialization manufacturing development activities for APF530 on a timely basis or fail to comply with stringent regulatory requirements, we will face delays in our ability to obtain regulatory approval for, and to commercialize, APF530, and our costs will increase. We do not manufacture APF530 and do not currently plan to develop any capacity to do so. Instead, we have relied on third parties to manufacture and perform important pre-commercialization manufacturing development activities for APF530. As part of the process for obtaining regulatory approval, we must demonstrate that the facilities, equipment and processes used to 28 Table of Contents manufacture APF530 are capable of consistently producing a product that meets all applicable quality criteria, and that is comparable to the product that was used in our clinical trials. We must also provide the FDA with information regarding the validation of the manufacturing facilities, equipment and processes of our third-party suppliers and manufacturers, and data supporting the stability of APF530. If our third-party suppliers and manufacturers are not in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) requirements, the approval of our marketing application may be delayed, existing product batches may be compromised, and we may experience delays in the availability of APF530 for commercial distribution. For example, our Complete Response Letter from the FDA regarding our NDA submission for APF530 stated that the NDA could not be approved in its present form due to, among other issues, deficiencies observed during an inspection of the facilities used by our third-party suppliers and manufacturers to produce APF530. These third-party suppliers and manufacturers have submitted responses to the FDA to address such issues. If the FDA is not satisfied with these responses and any corrective actions taken by these third parties, or if the FDA determines that it is necessary to re-inspect our third-party suppliers’ and manufacturers’ facilities before agreeing that the inspectional observations have been adequately addressed, we may be required to complete additional manufacturing development activities or provide other information to the FDA, which could cause substantial delays in obtaining regulatory approval for APF530, increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We depend on contract manufacturers and collaborators for manufacturing our products and provide them with technical expertise on the manufacturing process; we also perform quality control testing of the product; if we and our contract manufacturers do not perform as expected, our revenue and customer relations will suffer. We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities for the production of clinical or commercial quantities of any product. Our ability to develop and commercialize any products we may develop will depend in part on our ability to manufacture, or arrange for collaborators or other parties to manufacture, our products at a competitive cost, in accordance with regulatory requirements, and in sufficient quantities for clinical testing and eventual commercialization. We do not intend to develop or acquire facilities to manufacture any of our product candidates for clinical trials or commercial purposes in the foreseeable future. We rely on a small number of third-party manufacturers to produce our compounds and expect to continue to do so to meet the preclinical and clinical requirements of our potential products and for all of our commercial needs, some of which are our sole source suppliers at present. We have no long-term agreements with any of these third parties. We may not be able to extend these agreements at satisfactory terms, or at all, and we may not be able to find a replacement contract manufacturer at satisfactory terms or on a timely basis. Additionally, difficult economic conditions may cause operational and financial problems for our third-party suppliers, resulting in their failure and disruption to our operations. Further, we, along with our contract manufacturers and our collaborators, are required to comply with FDA requirements related to product testing, quality assurance, manufacturing and documentation. Our contract manufacturers, or our collaborators, may not be able to comply with the applicable FDA regulatory requirements. They may be required to pass an FDA pre-approval inspection for conformity with cGMPs before we can obtain approval to manufacture and will be subject to ongoing, periodic, unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMP, and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. If we and our contract manufacturers fail to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards in compliance with cGMP regulations, we may experience manufacturing errors resulting in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or interruptions of production or failures in 29 Table of Contents product testing or delivery, delay or prevention of filing or approval of marketing applications for our products, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business. We are aware that two companies working with us on the manufacture of APF530 have previously received “Form 483” notices of inspectional observations from the FDA and are working to address the deficiencies identified in these notices. The remediation efforts may not be adequate to address the deficiencies or the manufacturer may not stay in compliance with FDA requirements in the future. Not complying with FDA requirements could result in a Warning Letter or an enforcement action such as product seizure, recall, or injunction, prevent commercialization of our product candidates and impair our reputation and results of operations. Any performance failure on the part of our contract manufacturers or by us could delay clinical development or regulatory approval of product candidates or commercialization of our future products, depriving us of potential product revenue and resulting in additional losses. In addition, our dependence on a third party for manufacturing may adversely affect our future profit margins and limit our ability to commercialize products on a timely and competitive basis. Our ability to replace an existing manufacturer may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited, and the FDA must approve any replacement manufacturer before we can begin manufacturing APF530 or any of our other product candidates. Such approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. It may be difficult or impossible for us to identify and engage a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all. APF530 or any of our other product candidates may be in competition with other products for access to the facilities of third parties. Consequently, APF530 or any of our other product candidates may be subject to manufacturing delays if collaborators or outside contractors give other companies’ products greater priority than our products. For this and other reasons, our collaborators or third-party service providers may not be able to manufacture APF530 or any of our other product candidates in a cost-effective or timely manner. If not manufactured in a timely manner, the clinical development of any of our product candidates or their submission for regulatory approval could be delayed, and our ability to deliver products to market on a timely basis could be impaired or precluded. To date, APF530 has been manufactured in small quantities for preclinical studies and clinical trials. If in the future APF530 or any of our product candidates are approved for commercial sale, we will need to manufacture our products in larger quantities. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require additional process development and validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. The commercial success of our products, including APF530 in the near-term, will be dependent upon the ability of our contract manufacturers to produce a product in commercial quantities at competitive costs of manufacture. The ability to do so cannot be presumed. Significant additional development work is required prior to any commercial launch of a product. In the case of APF530, the high viscosity of the product creates particularly challenging factors relative to attainable production rates and cost of manufacture. If APF530 receives regulatory approval, we plan to scale-up manufacturing for APF530 in order to realize important economies of scale. These scale-up activities would take time to implement, require additional capital investment, process development and validation studies, and FDA approval. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in achieving competitive manufacturing costs through such scale-up activities. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to sell and market any products we may develop, we may be unable to generate product revenue. We do not currently have a sales organization for the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In order to commercialize any products, we must build our sales, marketing, distribution, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or 30 Table of Contents make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. We have started to establish internal sales and marketing capabilities for APF530, but may enter into agreements with third parties to sell and market other products we may develop. Although we have hired sales and marketing personnel with prior commercial experience, our company has no direct experience in developing, training or managing a marketing and sales force. The establishment and development of a sales force to market APF530 will be expensive and time consuming and could delay product launch, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully develop this capacity. If we are unable to establish our sales and marketing capability or any other non-technical capabilities necessary to commercialize APF530, we will need to contract with third parties to market and sell such products we may develop. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. If we fail to comply with continuing federal, state and foreign regulations, we could lose our approvals to market drugs, and our business would be seriously harmed. Following initial regulatory approval of any drugs we may develop, including APF530, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including review of adverse drug experiences and clinical results that are reported after our drug products become commercially available. This would include results from any post-marketing tests or continued actions required as a condition of approval. The manufacturer and manufacturing facilities we use to make any of our drug candidates will be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. If a previously unknown problem or problems with a product or a manufacturing and laboratory facility used by us is discovered, the FDA or foreign regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or on the manufacturing facility, including requiring us to withdraw the product from the market. Any changes to an approved product, including the way it is manufactured or promoted, often require FDA approval before the product, as modified, can be marketed. We and our contract manufacturers will be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for submission of safety and other post-market information. If we and our contract manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters; • impose civil or criminal penalties; • suspend or withdraw our regulatory approval; • suspend or terminate any of our ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; • impose restrictions on our operations; • close the facilities of our contract manufacturers; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. 31 Table of Contents Additionally, such regulatory review covers a company’s activities in the promotion of its drugs, with significant potential penalties and restrictions for promotion of drugs for an unapproved use. Sales and marketing programs are under scrutiny for compliance with various mandated requirements, such as illegal promotions to healthcare professionals. We are establishing a sales force to market APF530, which may include contracting with third parties to market and sell such products we may develop, and may be unable to ensure that our own employees as well as any third-party employees adhere to legal and regulatory requirements for product advertising and promotion. We are also required to submit information on our open and completed clinical trials to public registries and databases; failure to comply with these requirements could expose us to negative publicity, fines and penalties that could harm our business. If APF530 is approved, we will also be required to comply with the requirements to submit to governmental authorities information on payments to physicians and certain other third parties; failure to comply with these requirements could expose us to negative publicity, fines and penalties that could harm our business. If we are unable to recruit and retain skilled employees, we may not be able to achieve our objectives. We depend on a small number of key management and technical personnel. Retaining our current employees and recruiting qualified scientific personnel to perform future research and development and commercialization work will be critical to our success. While recent pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry layoffs have somewhat mitigated a usual shortage of skilled personnel in our industry, competition is always present for experienced scientists, and an inability to recruit or retain sufficient skilled personnel could result in delays to product development or approval, loss of sales and diversion of management resources. If we lose members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements and our business may be harmed as a result We face intense competition from other companies. APF530 is expected to face significant competition for the prevention of delayed CINV, principally from Eisai’s Aloxi (palonosetron). In addition to Aloxi, APF530 will compete with entrenched generic forms of granisetron (formerly marketed by Roche as Kytril) and ondansetron (formerly marketed by GlaxoSmithKline as Zofran). Generic versions of Aloxi may become available after its scheduled patent expiration date, which was recently extended to 2024. There are ongoing challenges to the Aloxi patents which may shorten the effective patent term. We are also aware of several companies that have developed or are developing both generic and new formulations of granisetron, including transdermal formulations such as ProStrakan’s Sancuso® (granisetron transdermal patch). There are several companies that are developing new formulations of existing drugs using novel drug delivery technologies. Many of these companies have substantially greater financial, research and development, manufacturing, sales and marketing and distribution resources and experience than we do. The following are some of our major competitors among drug delivery system developers: Alkermes, Inc., Durect Corporation, and Pacira Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Smaller or early stage companies and research institutions may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established pharmaceutical companies. We will also face competition from these parties in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, and acquiring and in-licensing technologies and products complementary to our programs or potentially advantageous to our business. If any of our competitors succeed in obtaining approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities for their products sooner than we do or for products that are more effective or less costly than ours, our commercial opportunity could be significantly reduced. 32 Table of Contents Major technological changes can happen quickly in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, and the development of technologically improved or different products or drug delivery technologies may make our product candidates or platform technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. Because we or our collaborators must obtain regulatory approval to market our products in the United States and foreign jurisdictions, we cannot predict whether or when we will be permitted to commercialize our products. Federal, state and local governments in the United States and governments in other countries have significant regulations in place that govern many of our activities. The preclinical testing and clinical trials of the products that we develop ourselves, or that our collaborators develop are subject to government regulation and may prevent us from creating commercially viable products from our discoveries. These regulations and their application may change making it more difficult or prohibitive to develop our products. In addition, the sale by us, or our collaborators, of any commercially viable product will be subject to various government regulations, including with respect to: • manufacturing; • labeling; • distributing; • advertising and promoting; and • selling and marketing. If we cannot establish pricing of our product candidates acceptable to the United States or foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors, or arrange for favorable reimbursement policies, any product sales will be severely hindered. The continuing efforts of the United States and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may adversely affect our ability to generate adequate revenues and gross margins to make the products we develop commercially viable. Our ability to commercialize any product candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations establish appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of such products and related treatments. In certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. In the United States, given recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, the U.S. Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and on the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid systems. The trend toward managed health care in the United States, which could significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care, control pharmaceutical prices or reduce government insurance programs, may result in lower prices for our product candidates. While we cannot predict whether any legislative or regulatory proposals affecting our business will be adopted, the announcement or adoption of these proposals could have a material and adverse effect on our potential revenues and gross margins. 33 Table of Contents Our business strategy includes the entry into additional collaborative agreements. We may not be able to enter into additional collaborative agreements or may not be able to negotiate commercially acceptable terms for these agreements. Our current business strategy includes the entry into additional collaborative agreements for the development and commercialization of our delivery technologies. The negotiation and consummation of these types of agreements typically involve simultaneous discussions with multiple potential collaborators and require significant time and resources from our officers, business development and research and development staff. In addition, in attracting the attention of pharmaceutical and biotechnology company collaborators, we compete with numerous other third parties with product opportunities as well as the collaborators’ own internal product opportunities. We may not be able to consummate additional collaborative agreements, or we may not be able to negotiate commercially acceptable terms for these agreements. If we do not consummate additional collaborative agreements, we may consume money more rapidly on our product development efforts, continue to defer certain development activities or forego the exploitation of certain geographic territories, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we or our collaborators cannot arrange for adequate third-party reimbursement for our products, our future revenue will suffer. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our potential products, including APF530, will depend in substantial part on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third-party payors such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Third-party payors often challenge the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services and such pressure may increase in the future. Significant uncertainty exists as to the adequate reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Any products we are able to successfully develop may not be reimbursable by third-party payors. In addition, our products may not be considered cost-effective and adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize a profit. Legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before our products are approved for marketing and any such changes could further limit reimbursement. Reimbursement policies utilized by our collaborators or ourselves may be challenged by regulatory entities, with resultant fines, negative publicity and the need to implement changes that reduce the utilization of our products. If any products we develop do not receive adequate reimbursement, our revenue will be severely limited. Our inability to obtain specialized materials could slow down our product development process. Some of the critical materials and components used in producing APF530 are sourced from a single supplier. An interruption in supply of a key material could significantly delay our research and development process or increase our expenses. Specialized materials must often be manufactured for the first time for use in drug delivery technologies, or materials may be used in the technologies in a manner different from their customary commercial uses. The quality of materials can be critical to the performance of a drug delivery technology, so a reliable source of a consistent supply of materials is important. Materials or components needed for our drug delivery technologies may be difficult to obtain on commercially reasonable terms, particularly when relatively small quantities are required or if the materials traditionally have not been used in pharmaceutical products. 34 Table of Contents If we are unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to third-party patents, we may lose valuable assets, experience reduced market share or incur costly litigation to protect our rights or our third-party collaborators may choose to terminate their agreements with us. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain trade secret protection, as well as successfully defending these patents against challenges, while operating without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We have filed a number of U.S. patent applications on inventions relating to the composition of a variety of polymers, specific products, product groups and processing technology. In addition to obtaining patents in a number of foreign countries, we have also filed U.S. and foreign patent applications on our polymer technology with the PCT, the European Patent Office, Australia, Canada, China, Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea, Singapore and Taiwan. At December 31, 2012, we had a total of 22 issued U.S. patents and an additional 54 issued (or registered) foreign patents. The patents on the bioerodible technologies expire between January 2016 and April 2026. In addition, APF530 is covered by multiple patents that will expire in 2024. Our existing patents may not cover future products, additional patents may not be issued, and current patents, or patents issued in the future, may not provide meaningful protection or prove to be of commercial benefit. The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies, including ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. In addition, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. Consequently, our patent applications, or those that are licensed to us, may not issue into patents, and any issued patents may not provide sufficient protection for our product candidates or provide sufficient protection to afford us a commercial advantage against competitive technologies or may be held invalid if challenged or circumvented. Patent applications in the United States are maintained in confidence for at least 18 months after their filing. Consequently, we cannot be certain that the patent applications we are pursuing will lead to the issuance of any patent or be free from infringement or other claims from other parties. Our competitors may also independently develop products similar to ours or design around or otherwise circumvent patents issued to us or licensed by us. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as U.S. laws. We are party to collaborative agreements. These agreements subject us to obligations which must be fulfilled and require us to manage complex relationships with third parties. If we are unable to meet our obligations or manage our relationships with our collaborators under these agreements or enter into additional collaboration agreements or if our existing collaborations are terminated or not extended on terms as beneficial as we anticipate, our revenue may decrease. The loss or diminution of our intellectual property rights could result in a decision by our third-party collaborators to terminate their agreements with us. In addition, these agreements are generally complex and contain provisions that could give rise to legal disputes, including potential disputes concerning ownership of intellectual property and data under collaborations. Such disputes can lead to lengthy, expensive litigation or arbitration, requiring us to divert management time and resources to such dispute. We also rely upon trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We require our employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to execute appropriate confidentiality and assignment-of-inventions agreements with us. These agreements typically provide that all materials and confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual’s relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances, and that all inventions arising out of the individual’s relationship with us shall be our exclusive property. These agreements may be breached, and in some instances, 35 Table of Contents we may not have an appropriate remedy available for breach of the agreements. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, reverse engineer our information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology. We may be unable to meaningfully protect our rights in trade secrets, technical know-how and other non-patented technology. We may have to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. In addition, interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications. Enforcing or defending our proprietary rights is expensive, could cause diversion of our resources and may not prove successful. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to seek to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. Any failure to enforce or protect our rights could cause us to lose the ability to exclude others from using our technology to develop or sell competing products. We may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, and any litigation could force us to stop developing or selling potential products and could be costly, divert management attention and harm our business. We must be able to develop products without infringing the proprietary rights of other parties. Because the markets in which we operate involve established competitors with significant patent portfolios, including patents relating to the composition of a variety of polymers, specific products, product groups and processing technology, it could be difficult for us to use our technologies or develop products without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We may not be able to design around the patented technologies or inventions of others and we may not be able to obtain licenses to use patented technologies on acceptable terms, or at all. If we cannot operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others, we will not be able to develop or commercialize some or all of our product candidates, and consequently will not be able to earn product revenue. If we are required to defend ourselves in a lawsuit, we could incur substantial costs and the lawsuit could divert management attention, regardless of the lawsuit’s merit or outcome. These legal actions could seek damages and seek to enjoin testing, manufacturing and marketing of the accused product or process. In addition to potential liability for significant damages, we could be required to obtain a license to continue to manufacture or market the accused product or process and any license required under any such patent may not be made available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Periodically, we review publicly available information regarding the development efforts of others in order to determine whether these efforts may violate our proprietary rights. We may determine that litigation is necessary to enforce our proprietary rights against others. Such litigation could result in substantial expense, regardless of its outcome, and may not be resolved in our favor. We are exposed to risks and increased expenses as a result of laws requiring filers to evaluate internal controls over financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 404) requires management to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financing reporting in our annual report on Form 10-K for each fiscal year. Starting with our annual report for the year ended December 31, 2012, our independent auditors are required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able 36 Table of Contents to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. We have implemented an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation we believe to be necessary to comply with these requirements. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts. We expect to incur increased expense and to devote additional management resources to Section 404 compliance. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation or operation of these controls, could harm our operating results and cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, which could adversely affect our business and reduce our stock price. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. We cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future, which would require management and our independent registered public accounting firm to evaluate our internal controls as ineffective. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not considered effective, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and on the price of our stock. Legislative actions, potential new accounting pronouncements and higher insurance costs are likely to impact our future financial position or results of operations. Future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse, unexpected fluctuations in the timing of the recognition of revenue or expenses and may affect our financial position or results of operations. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred with frequency and may occur in the future, and we may make changes in our accounting policies in the future. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Act, new Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board pronouncements, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours and insurance, accounting and auditing costs are increasing as a result of this uncertainty and other factors. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. We could be exposed to significant product liability claims that could be time consuming and costly to defend, divert management attention and adversely impact our ability to obtain and maintain insurance coverage. The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of our products involve an inherent risk that product liability claims will be asserted against us. Although we are insured against such risks up to an annual aggregate limit in connection with clinical trials and commercial sales of our products, our present product liability insurance may be inadequate and may not fully cover the costs of any claim or any ultimate damages we might be required to pay. Product liability claims or other claims related to our products, regardless of their outcome, could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Any successful product liability claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future 37 Table of Contents on commercially desirable or reasonable terms. In addition, product liability coverage may cease to be available in sufficient amounts or at an acceptable cost. An inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products. A product liability claim could also significantly harm our reputation and delay market acceptance of our products. Our use of hazardous materials could subject us to liabilities, fines and sanctions. Our laboratory and clinical testing sometimes involve use of hazardous, radioactive or otherwise toxic materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing how we use, manufacture, handle, store and dispose of these materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply in all material respects with all federal, state and local regulations and standards, there is always the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result and such liability could exceed our financial resources. If we fail to comply with these regulations and standards or with the conditions attached to our operating licenses, the licenses could be revoked, and we could be subjected to criminal sanctions and substantial financial liability or be required to suspend or modify our operations. Compliance with environmental and other laws may be expensive and current or future regulations may impair our development or commercialization efforts. Earthquake damage to our facilities could delay our research and development and quality control testing efforts and adversely affect our business. Our facility in Redwood City, California, is located in a seismic zone, and there is the possibility of an earthquake, which could be disruptive to our operations and result in delays in our research and development efforts and supplies of APF530, if approved. In the event of an earthquake, if our facilities or the equipment in our facilities are significantly damaged or destroyed, we may not be able to rebuild or relocate our facility or replace any damaged equipment in a timely manner and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related To Our Common Stock In April 2011, our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market for non-compliance with Nasdaq’s $1.00 per share minimum bid price continued listing requirement and is now quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, thereby causing trading in our common stock to be limited by “penny stock” restrictions and our ability to raise additional capital to potentially be compromised. With the delisting of our common stock, it comes within the definition of “penny stock” as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is covered by Rule 15g-9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. That rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, Rule 15g-9 potentially affects the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell our securities and accordingly would also affect the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the public market. These additional procedures could also limit our ability to raise additional capital in the future. 38 Table of Contents The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. Our common stock has historically been volatile, with a trading price ranging from $0.10 to $2.16 over the past five years. The stock markets, in general, and the markets for drug delivery and pharmaceutical stocks, in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the limited trading volume of our stock may contribute to its volatility. Price declines in our common stock could result from general market and economic conditions and a variety of other factors, including the risks identified in this Item1A. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, litigation has often been brought against that company. If litigation of this type is brought against us, it could be extremely expensive and divert management’s attention and our company’s resources. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our board of directors. These provisions include authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders. In addition, Section 203 of Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company by prohibiting stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us, unless certain approvals are obtained. Further concentration in stockholder ownership could influence strategic actions. Our directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and affiliated entities currently beneficially own or control a majority of our outstanding securities. Tang Capital Partners, LP and its affiliates’ beneficial ownership in our common stock, as determined in accordance with Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act, was approximately 24% following our July 2012 private placement financing, excluding potential further concentration underlying outstanding warrants and our convertible note facility. Kevin C. Tang, the Managing Director of Tang Capital Management, LLC, the general partner of Tang Capital Partners, LP, is also a member of our board. Such a concentration of common stock ownership could significantly influence corporate actions on various strategic matters, including, for example, receptivity to collaborations and merger or sale overtures. 39 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. Our principal stockholders and affiliated entities hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock that they are able to sell in the public market. In addition, they currently own convertible notes and outstanding warrants for additional shares of our common stock. The exercise of these warrants, conversion of the notes or the sale by our current stockholders of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation that such exercises or sales may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Future utilization of net operating loss carry-forwards may be impaired due to recent changes in ownership. As discussed in Note 12 to the Financial Statements, we believe our net operating losses and tax attributes may be subject to limitation under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. As a result, our deferred tax assets, and related valuation allowance, have been reduced for the estimated impact of the net operating losses and credits that we currently estimate may expire unused. Utilization of our remaining net operating loss and research and development credit carry-forwards may still be subject to substantial annual limitations due to ownership change limitations provided by the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions for ownership changes after December 31, 2012, including those that may come in conjunction with future equity financings or market trades by our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 