ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. This section contains forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements in the section above entitled “Special Note about Forward-Looking Statements”. We are subject to risks common to technology-based companies, including dependence on key personnel, rapid technological change, competition from alternative product offerings and larger companies, and challenges to the development and marketing of commercial products and services. We believe that our future results of operations could be affected by various factors including, but not limited to, the following: • delays in the development or shipment of our new products or new versions of our existing products; • the introduction of competitive products by others; • general worldwide economic conditions and disruptions in the financial markets; • inability to secure capital on favorable terms, or at all, if we need additional capital in the future; • inability to attract and retain key personnel; • disruption to our business of past and future acquisitions; • intellectual property disputes; • fluctuations in quarterly operating results; • impairment of goodwill and amortizable assets; • costs to ensure compliance with United States corporate governance and accounting requirements; • reliance upon development resources in India and Israel may expose us to unanticipated costs or liabilities; • unanticipated changes in accounting rules; and • unanticipated changes in tax rates and regulations. If we are unable to successfully compete in our markets, our financial results will be negatively affected. The computer software market is highly competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change and adoption of new industry standards. As the markets in which our products are sold continue to develop and as we enter new markets, we expect to continue to face substantial competition from other software developers and anticipate that additional competitors will enter those markets. Many of our competitors have substantially greater name recognition and technical, financial and marketing resources, greater manufacturing capacity and better established relationships with incumbent and potential customers than we have. Many of our competitors have more resources to develop or acquire, and more experience in developing or acquiring, new products and technologies and in creating market awareness for those products and technologies. In addition, many of our competitors have the financial resources to offer competitive products at aggressive pricing levels that could prevent us from competing effectively. Further, many of our competitors have built long-standing relationships with some of our prospective customers and have the ability to provide financing to customers and could, therefore, have an inherent advantage in selling products to those customers. These competitors may be able to 18 Table of Contents adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and standards or changes in customer requirements and may be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than we are able. Many of our competitors currently market, or have the potential to market, their products directly to the ultimate consumers of such products as part of a broader product offering. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against these entities. To compete successfully, we must continue our investment in research and product development and we must devote substantial resources to our marketing and sales functions. There can be no assurance that we will have the necessary capital resources to fund such investment. If we are unable to meet our customers’ demands for cutting-edge products and services, our revenue and operating results may be adversely affected. If we are unable to consistently introduce new products, services, and enhancements, our revenue and operating results are likely to be adversely affected. Any failure by us to anticipate or respond to new technological developments and customer requirements, or any significant delays in product development or introduction, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. New products, when first released by us, may contain undetected errors that, despite quality control measures employed by us, are discovered only after a product has been integrated into our customers’ products and utilized by end users. Such errors may cause delays in product acceptance and may require design modifications which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. General economic risks and disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect our cash flow, assets, revenue and profitability. Our business may be negatively affected by general worldwide economic conditions and related uncertainties affecting the markets in which we operate. Adverse economic conditions could adversely impact our business in future periods, resulting in: reduced demand for our products; increased pressure on the prices for our products and services; and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable. Disruptions in the financial markets have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the U.S. and world economy, and may continue to negatively impact business and consumer spending patterns. Current tightening of credit in financial markets also adversely affects the ability of our customers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in new licenses of our products. Additionally, the lack of available financing may limit or delay the growth of our OEM and ISV customers. Changes in employment and consumer spending patterns may also slow the adoption of new technologies and reduce the demand for new licenses for our products, and may result in fewer license renewals and less royalty income. There is no assurance that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore business and consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. We are pursuing a number of strategies to generate revenue growth, including: identifying new markets for our products; developing new applications for our technologies; allocating research and development funding to products with high revenue potential; and strengthening our presence in selected geographic markets. Due to limited resources, we may not be able to continue to successfully implement these strategies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks related to our international sales. Sales to customers outside the United States represented 19.0% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010. This revenue does not include revenue derived from products sold into the international market by our domestic OEM and ISV customers or foreign purchases downloaded from MyFonts, which are included in total U.S. sales. We expect that our international business will continue to account for a significant portion of our future revenue. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products more expensive and therefore less competitive in foreign markets. Additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, longer accounts receivable payment cycles, potentially adverse tax consequences, and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. There can be no assurance that such factors will not have an adverse effect on our future revenue and our results of operations. In addition, our European business is significant and has historically been negatively affected during our fiscal quarter ending September 30th due to the summer closing or slowdown of several European customers. 19 Table of Contents We may need additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, and may dilute our existing stockholders’ ownership of our common stock. The Company has experienced a net loss as well as negative operating cash flows in the current year, and as of December 31, 2010 has an accumulated deficit of approximately $20 million. We expect to continue to make significant expenditures related to the continued development of our business. These expenditures may include the addition of personnel related to sales, marketing and research and development and we may therefore sustain significant operating losses and negative cash flows in the future. We will have to maintain significant increased revenue and product gross margins to achieve profitability on an annual basis. We may require additional capital from equity or debt financing in the future to fund operations, therefore, to take advantage of strategic opportunities including more rapid expansion of our business or the acquisition of complementary products, technologies or businesses; and to develop new products or enhancements to existing products. We may not be able to secure timely additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The terms of any additional financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, if and when we require it, our ability to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and integration of these acquisitions may disrupt our business and management, negatively affecting our business, operating results or financial condition. Recently, we completed the acquisition of the iWay related assets from Press-Sense Ltd. in June 2010. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition and each acquisition has numerous risks. We may experience difficulties in integrating personnel and operations from the acquired businesses and in retaining and motivating key personnel from those businesses, and difficulties caused by potential incompatibility of business cultures. We may experience difficulty in effectively integrating the acquired technologies, products or services with our current technologies, products, or services. We may experience difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration, as well as difficulty integrating the acquired company’s accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems. We may not be able to assert that internal controls over financial reporting are effective. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses or adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. We may also not be able to retain key technical and managerial personnel of the acquired business or key customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business; and we may not be able to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses. We may incur acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results, increased exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, impair relationships with employees, customers, partners, distributors or third-party providers of our technologies, products or services; and cause delay in customer and distributor purchasing decisions due to uncertainty about the direction of our product and service offerings, While we currently have no acquisitions of other businesses pending or planned, we may pursue acquisition opportunities in the future. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals, or such acquisitions may be viewed negatively by customers, financial markets or investors. Future acquisitions may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses and could result in an increase in amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Mergers and acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, and ultimately, if we do not complete an announced acquisition transaction or integrate an acquired business successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the benefits of the acquisition to the extent anticipated. 20 Table of Contents Failure to attract and retain talented employees would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. Our performance depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our senior management and key technical employees. Our future results will depend upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel in the software industry is intense. We rely on competitive compensation packages to recruit and retain highly skilled employees in a competitive environment, but we do not enter into employment agreements with our personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel required to sustain our business. Failure to attract and retain such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights against piracy, infringement of our patents, or declining legal protection. We regard our software as proprietary and attempt to protect it with a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other methods of protection. There can be no assurance that these measures will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies. It may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Furthermore, the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States, and thus make the possibility of unauthorized use of our technologies and products more likely. We also rely on confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees, and consultants to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors. In connection with the enforcement of our own intellectual property rights or in connection with disputes relating to the validity or alleged infringement of third-party rights, we have been, are currently and may in the future be, subject to claims, negotiations or complex, protracted litigation as part of our policy to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, including rights derived from third-party licensors. Intellectual property disputes and litigation are typically very costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel. Although we have successfully defended or resolved past litigation and disputes, we may not prevail in any future litigation and disputes. Adverse decisions in such litigation or disputes could have negative results, including subjecting us to significant liabilities, requiring us to seek licenses from others, preventing us from making, using, selling, distributing, or marketing our products and services in the United States or abroad, or causing severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, any one of which could seriously harm our business. Additionally, although we actively pursue software pirates as part of our enforcement of our intellectual property rights, we do lose revenue due to the illegal use of our software. If piracy activities increase, it may further harm our business. Fluctuations in quarterly operating results may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Class A Common Stock. We have previously experienced quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in our operating results as a result of a number of factors including the timing of new product introductions, announcements of new products by us, our competitors or our customers, slower-than-anticipated growth rates of emerging markets, slower adoption of new products and technologies into which our products are incorporated, the acquisition and integration of the assets acquired from Press-Sense Ltd. and any future acquisitions which may take place, delays in customer purchases in anticipation of industry developments, and gross margin fluctuations relating to variations in product mix. Furthermore, a significant portion of our expenses are relatively fixed in nature and we may not be able to reduce spending in response to shortfalls or delays in sales. Such shortfalls or delays may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Moreover, we do not operate with a significant backlog and often tend to realize a disproportionate share of our revenue in the last few weeks of a fiscal quarter, thereby impairing our ability to accurately forecast quarter-to-quarter sales results. Due to the foregoing factors, it is likely that in one or more future fiscal quarters our operating results may be below the expectations of public 21 Table of Contents market analysts and investors. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Class A Common Stock which could have a negative effect on our ability to obtain additional funding, if necessary, on terms favorable to us. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under GAAP, we review our goodwill and amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, future cash flows, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, resulting in an impact on our results of operations. We incur significant costs to ensure compliance with United States corporate governance and accounting requirements. We incur significant costs associated with our public company reporting requirements, costs associated with applicable corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the “Commission”. We expect all of these applicable rules and regulations to cause us to continue to incur substantial legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time consuming and costly. We also expect that these applicable rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to maintain affordable director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. Our use and reliance upon development resources in India and Israel may expose us to unanticipated costs or liabilities. We have established development centers in India and Israel and expect to continue to increase hiring of personnel for these facilities. There is no assurance that our reliance upon development resources in India and Israel will enable us to achieve meaningful cost reductions or greater resource efficiency. Further, our development efforts and other operations in these countries involve significant risks, including: • difficulty hiring and retaining appropriate engineering resources due to intense competition for such resources and resulting wage inflation; • the knowledge transfer related to our technology and exposure to misappropriation of intellectual property or confidential information, including information that is proprietary to us, our customers and other third parties; • heightened exposure to changes in the economic, security and political conditions of India and Israel; • fluctuation in currency exchange rates and tax risks associated with international operations; and • development efforts that do not meet our requirements because of language, cultural or other differences associated with international operations, resulting in errors or delays. Difficulties resulting from the factors above and other risks related to our operations in these countries could expose us to increased expense, impair our development efforts, harm our competitive position and damage our reputation. Changes in accounting rules may adversely affect the way we report our financial results and the price of our Class A Common Stock. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles are subject to interpretation by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight 22 Table of Contents Board, and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these principles and policies could have a significant impact on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Changes to these rules may have a material adverse effect on future financial results or in the way in which we conduct our business. Changes in tax rates and regulations could adversely affect our future results of operations. Changes in tax rates could adversely affect our future results of operations. Increases in tax rates or changes in how taxes are assessed could increase our tax liabilities, which would negatively affect our financial results and cash flow. Interest Rate Sensitivity and Market Risk. The primary objective of our current investment activities is to preserve investment principal while maximizing income without significantly increasing risk. To meet these objectives, we invest funds not immediately required for operations only in high quality debt securities. We also limit the percentage of total investments that may be invested in any one issuer. Investments in corporate bonds as a group are also limited to a maximum percentage of our investment portfolio. We maintain a portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of securities including money market funds, corporate bonds and government debt securities. These available-for-sale investments are subject to interest rate risk and may decline in value if market interest rates increase. If market interest rates increased immediately and uniformly by 10 percent from levels at December 31, 2010, the fair value of the portfolio would decline by approximately $824,000. We have the ability to hold our fixed income investments until maturity, and therefore do not expect our operating results or cash flows to be affected to any significant degree by the effect of a sudden change in market interest rates on our investment portfolio. In addition to interest rate risk, we are subject to market risk on our investments. We monitor all of our investments for impairment on a periodic basis. In the event that the carrying value of the investment exceeds its fair value and the decline in value is determined to be other than temporary, the carrying value is reduced to its current fair market value. In the absence of other overriding factors, we consider a decline in market value to be a potential indicator of an other than temporary impairment when a publicly traded stock or a debt security has traded below amortized cost for a consecutive six-month period. If an investment continues to trade below amortized cost for more than six months, and mitigating factors such as general economic and industry specific trends, including the creditworthiness of the issuer are not present, this investment would be evaluated for impairment and written down to a balance equal to the estimated fair value at the time of impairment, with the amount of the write-down recorded in Interest and other income, net, on the consolidated statements of operations. If management concludes it does not intend to sell an impaired debt security and it is not more likely than not that it will be required to sell the debt security before the recovery of its amortized cost basis, and the issuers of the securities are creditworthy, no other-than-temporary impairment is deemed to exist. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 