ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. This section contains forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements in the section above entitled “Special Note about Forward-Looking Statements”. We are subject to risks common to technology-based companies, including dependence on key personnel, rapid technological change, competition from alternative product offerings and larger companies, and challenges to the development and marketing of commercial products and services. We believe that our future results of operations could be affected by various factors including, but not limited to, the following: • delays in the development or shipment of our new products or new versions of our existing products; • the introduction of competitive products by others; • general worldwide economic conditions; • inability to attract and retain key personnel; • intellectual property disputes; • fluctuations in quarterly operating results; • changes in accounting rules; and • unanticipated changes in tax rates and regulations. 13 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully compete in our markets, our financial results will be negatively affected. The computer software market is highly competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change and adoption of new industry standards. As the markets in which our products are sold continue to develop and as we enter new markets, we expect to continue to face substantial competition from other software developers and anticipate that additional competitors will enter those markets. Many of our competitors or potential competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing and technical resources than us. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and standards or changes in customer requirements and may be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than us. Many of our competitors currently market, or have potential to market, their products directly to the ultimate consumers of such products as part of a broader product offering. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against these entities. To compete successfully, we must continue our investment in research and product development and must devote substantial resources to our marketing and sales functions. There can be no assurance that we will have the necessary capital resources to fund such investment. If we are unable to meet our customers’ demands for cutting-edge products and services, our revenue and operating results may be adversely affected. If we are unable to consistently introduce new products, services, and enhancements, our revenue and operating results are likely to decrease. Any failure by us to anticipate or respond to new technological developments and customer requirements, or any significant delays in product development or introduction, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. New products, when first released by us, may contain undetected errors that, despite quality control measures employed by us, are discovered only after a product has been integrated into the OEM and ISV product and used by customers. Such errors may cause delays in product acceptance and may require design modifications which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. General economic risks may affect our revenue and profitability. Our business may be affected by general worldwide economic conditions and related uncertainties affecting markets in which we operate. Adverse economic conditions could adversely impact our business in 2006 and beyond, resulting in: reduced demand for some of our products; increased pressure on the prices for our products and services; and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable. To address this issue, we are pursuing a number of strategies to generate revenue growth, including: identifying new markets for our products; developing new applications for our technologies; allocating research and development funding to products with high revenue potential; and strengthening our presence in selected geographic markets. Due to limited resources, we may not be able to continue to successfully implement these strategies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks related to our international sales. Sales to customers outside the United States represented 20.0% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005. This revenue does not include revenue derived from products sold into the international market by our domestic OEM and ISV customers or foreign purchases downloaded from MyFonts.com . We expect that our international business will continue to account for a significant portion of our future revenue. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products more expensive and therefore less competitive in foreign markets. Additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, longer accounts receivable payment cycles, potentially adverse tax consequences, and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. There can be no assurance that such factors will not have an adverse effect on our future revenue and our results of operations. In addition, our European business is significant and has historically been negatively affected during our fiscal quarter ending September 30 due to the summer closing or slowdown of several European customers. These seasonal factors have affected, and may continue to affect, our results of operations. Failure to attract and retain talented employees would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. Our performance depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our senior management and key technical employees. Our future results will depend upon our ability to attract 14 Table of Contents and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel in the software industry is intense. We rely on competitive compensation packages to recruit and retain highly skilled employees in a competitive environment, but we do not enter into employment agreements with our personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel required to sustain our business. Failure to attract and retain such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights against piracy, infringement of our patents, or declining legal protection. We regard our software as proprietary and attempt to protect it with a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other methods of protection. There can be no assurance that these measures will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies. It may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Furthermore, the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and thus make the possibility of unauthorized use of our technologies and products more likely. We also rely on confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees, and consultants to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors. In connection with the enforcement of our own intellectual property rights or in connection with disputes relating to the validity or alleged infringement of third-party rights, we have been, are currently and may in the future be subject to claims, negotiations or complex, protracted litigation as part of our policy to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, including rights derived from third-party licensors. Intellectual property disputes and litigation are typically very costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel. Although we have successfully defended or resolved past litigation and disputes, we may not prevail in any ongoing or future litigation and disputes. Adverse decisions in such litigation or disputes could have negative results, including subjecting us to significant liabilities, requiring us to seek licenses from others, preventing us from making, using, selling, distributing, or marketing our products and services in the United States or abroad, or causing severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, any one of which could seriously harm our business. Additionally, although we actively pursue software pirates as part of our enforcement of our intellectual property rights, we do lose revenue due to illegal use of our software. If piracy activities increase, it may further harm our business. Fluctuations in quarterly operating results may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. We have previously experienced quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in our operating results as a result of a number of factors including the timing of new product introductions, announcements of new products by us, our competitors or our customers, slower-than-anticipated growth rates of emerging markets, slower adoption of new products and technologies into which our products are incorporated, delays in customer purchases in anticipation of industry developments, and gross margin fluctuations relating to variations in product mix. Furthermore, a significant portion of our expenses are relatively fixed in nature and we may not be able to reduce spending in response to shortfalls or delays in sales. Such shortfalls or delays may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Moreover, we do not operate with a significant backlog and often tend to realize a disproportionate share of our revenue in the last few weeks of a fiscal quarter, thereby impairing our ability to accurately forecast quarter-to-quarter sales results. Due to the foregoing factors, it is likely that in one or more future fiscal quarters our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Class A Common Stock which could have a negative effect on our ability to obtain additional funding, if necessary, on terms favorable to us. 15 Table of Contents Changes in accounting rules may adversely affect our financial results and the price of our Class A Common Stock. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles are subject to interpretation by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these principles and policies could have a significant impact on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Changes to these rules may have a material adverse effect on future financial results or in the way in which we conduct our business. For example, in December 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) 123(R) which requires the measurement of all employee share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, using a fair-value-based method and the recording of such expense in our consolidated statements of income. We were required to adopt SFAS 123(R) in the reporting period beginning January 1, 2006. Although we have not yet determined whether the adoption of SFAS 123(R) will result in amounts that are similar to the current pro forma disclosures under SFAS 123, we are evaluating the requirements under SFAS 123(R) and expect the adoption to have a significant adverse impact on our future consolidated statements of income and net income per share. Additionally, to avoid the additional expense resulting from having to expense option grants, we may refrain from granting additional options, which may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain skilled technical, managerial and marketing personnel. Changes in tax rates and regulations. Changes in tax rates could adversely affect our future results of operations. Increases in tax rates or changes in how taxes are assessed could increase our tax liabilities, which would negatively affect our financial results and cash flow. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 