Item 1A. Risk Factors The limitations on dividends and repurchases imposed through the Corporation’s participation in the Capital Purchase Program may make the Corporation’s common stock less attractive of an investment. On November 14, 2008, the United States Department of the Treasury (the “Treasury”) purchased newly issued shares of the Corporation’s preferred stock as part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) Capital Purchase Program. As part of this transaction, the Corporation agreed to limitations on the payment of dividends and prohibitions on the repurchase of shares of the Corporation’s common stock. These capital management devices contribute to the attractiveness of the Corporation’s common stock and limitations and prohibitions on such activities may make the Corporation’s common stock less attractive to investors. The limitations on executive compensation imposed through the Corporation’s participation in the Capital Purchase Program may restrict the Corporation’s ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees, which could adversely affect the Corporation’s operations. As part of the transaction, the Corporation agreed to be bound by certain executive compensation restrictions, including limitations on severance payments and the clawback of any bonus and incentive compensation that were based on materially inaccurate financial statements or any other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria. Subsequent to the issuance of the preferred stock, the President signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 into law, which provided more stringent limitations on severance pay and the payment of bonuses. To the extent that any of these compensation restrictions do not permit the Corporation to provide a comprehensive compensation package to its key employees that is competitive in its market area, the Corporation may have difficulty in attracting, retaining and motivating key employees, which could have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s results of operations. 12 Table of Contents The exercise of the warrant by Treasury will dilute existing stockowners’ ownership interest and may make it more difficult for the Corporation to take certain actions that may be in the best interests of shareholders. In addition to the issuance of preferred shares, the Corporation also granted the Treasury a warrant to purchase 2,374,608 shares of common at a price of $9.57 per share. If the Treasury exercises the entire warrant, it would result in dilution to the ownership interest of existing stockholders and dilute the earnings per share value of the Corporation’s common stock. The Treasury has agreed that it will not exercise voting power with regard to the shares that it acquires by exercising the warrant. However, Treasury’s abstention from voting may make it more difficult for the Corporation to obtain shareholder approval for those matters that require a majority of total shares outstanding. The terms governing the issuance of the preferred stock to Treasury may be changed, the effect of which may have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s operations. The terms of agreement in which the Corporation entered into with the Treasury provides that the Treasury may unilaterally amend any provision of the Securities Purchase Agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes in applicable federal statutes that may occur in the future. The President signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, which placed more stringent limits on executive compensation, including a prohibition on the payment of bonuses or severance and a requirement that compensation paid to executives be presented to shareholders for a “non-binding” vote. The Corporation has no assurances that further changes in the terms of the transaction will not occur in the future. Such changes may place further restrictions on the Corporation’s business or results of operation, which may adversely affect the market price of the Corporation’s common stock. The Corporation’s inability to raise capital at attractive rates may restrict its ability to redeem the preferred stock it issued, which may lead to a greater cost of that investment. The terms of the preferred stock issued to the Treasury provide that the shares pay a dividend at a rate of 5% per year for the first five years after which time the rate will increase to 9% per year. It is the Corporation’s current goal to repay the Treasury before the date of the increase in the dividend rate on the preferred stock. However, the Corporation’s ability to repay the Treasury will depend on its ability to raise capital, which will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of the Corporation’s control, and the Corporation’s financial performance. The Corporation can give no assurance that it will be able to raise additional capital or that such capital will be available on terms more attractive to the Corporation than the Treasury’s investment. Future FDIC assessments will have an adverse impact on the Corporation’s earnings. In February 2009, the FDIC adopted an interim final rule imposing a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounts could be up to 20 basis points of insured deposits as of June 30, 2009. The assessment will be paid on September 30, 2009. The special assessment will have an adverse impact on the Corporation’s earnings and the Corporation expects that non-interest expense will increase up to approximately $9.5 million in 2009 as compared to 2008 as a result of this assessment. In addition, the interim rule would also permit the FDIC to impose additional emergency special assessments after June 30, 2009, of up to 10 basis points per quarter if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance or as a result of deterioration in the deposit insurance fund reserve ratio due to further institution failures. Any additional emergency special assessment imposed by the FDIC will result in further deterioration in the Corporation’s earnings. Fluctuations in interest rates may reduce the Corporation’s net income and future cash flows. In June 2006, the U.S. Federal Reserve target for the federal funds rate was 5.25%. Since then, the targeted federal funds rate has been reduced by 500 to 525 basis points to a range of 0.00% to 0.25% as of December 2008. While these short-term market interest rates (which the Corporation uses as a guide to price its short-term loans and deposits) have decreased, these rates have repriced downwards faster than longer-term market interest rates (which the Corporation uses as a guide to price its longer-term loans and deposits). If rates on the Corporation’s deposits and borrowings reprice downwards slower than the rates on the Corporation’s long-term loans and investments, the Corporation would experience compression of its interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on the Corporation’s profitability. A continuation of recent turmoil in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on the financial position or results of operations of M&T, Provident and/or the combined company. In recent periods, United States and the global financial markets have experienced severe disruption and volatility and general economic conditions have declined significantly. Adverse developments in credit quality, asset values and revenue opportunities throughout the financial services industry, as well as general uncertainty regarding the economic, industry and regulatory environment, have had a marked negative impact on the industry. These developments and conditions have also negatively impacted the financial position and results of operations of both M&T and Provident, even though M&T’s most recent quarterly period reflected an 13 Table of Contents improvement over recent prior results. The United States and the governments of other countries have taken steps to try to stabilize the financial system, including investing in financial institutions, and have also been working to design and implement programs to improve general economic conditions. Notwithstanding the actions of the United States and other governments, there can be no assurances that these efforts will be successful in restoring industry, economic or market conditions and that they will not result in adverse unintended consequences. Factors that could continue to pressure financial services companies, including M&T and Provident, are numerous and include (1) continued or worsening credit quality, leading among other things to increases in loan losses and reserves, (2) continued or worsening disruption and volatility in financial markets, leading among other things to continuing reductions in assets values, (3) capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally and our counterparties specifically, (4) limitations resulting from or imposed in connection with governmental actions intended to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, or (5) recessionary conditions that are deeper or last longer than currently anticipated. The Corporation will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger is pending. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on the Corporation and consequently on M&T. These uncertainties may impair Corporation’s ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is consummated, and could cause customers and others that deal with the Corporation to seek to change existing business relationships with the Corporation. Retention of certain employees may be challenging during the pendency of the merger, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with M&T. In addition, the merger agreement restricts the Corporation from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the merger occurs without the consent of M&T. These restrictions may prevent the Corporation from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the merger. Termination of the merger agreement could negatively impact the Corporation. If the merger agreement is terminated, there may be various adverse consequences. For example, the Corporation’s businesses may have been adversely impacted by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the focus of management on the merger, without realizing any of the anticipated benefits of completing the merger, or the market price of the Corporation’s common stock could decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed. If the merger agreement is terminated and the Corporation’s Board of Directors seeks another merger or business combination, it cannot be certain that the Corporation will be able to find a party willing to pay an equivalent or more attractive price than the price M&T has agreed to pay in the merger. Further decline in value in certain investment securities held by the Corporation could require further write-downs, which would reduce the Corporation’s earnings. The Corporation’s investment portfolio includes non-agency securities and pooled trust preferred securities backed by banks, insurance companies, and real estate investment trusts (“REITs”). In 2008, the Corporation determined that the loss in value on certain non-agency MBS securities, REIT pooled trust preferred securities and bank trust preferred securities were other-than-temporarily impaired, and accordingly, recognized a $120.7 million impairment write-down related to those securities. In 2007, the Corporation determined that a loss in value of REIT pooled trust preferred securities were other-than-temporarily impaired, and accordingly, recognized a $47.5 million impairment write-down related to those securities. The impairment write-down related to non-agency MBS securities and securities issued by residential mortgage REITs and banks, which are facing a difficult operating environment due to the turmoil in the mortgage origination, homebuilder and banking sectors. These sectors are all facing challenges due to declining home prices, home sales and rising loan delinquencies. Continuing adverse business conditions could result in further loss in value in the securities portfolio held by the Corporation, which could result in further impairment write-downs. The securities in the municipal bond portfolio consist of geographically diversified securities that are insured by major bond insurers. Some of the bond insurers have been downgraded and others may follow. The recent downgrades reflect concerns about their ability to cover potential claims on issuers unable to make their principal or interest payments. Currently, all securities in this portfolio are rated BBB or higher by the three major rating agencies. For further information regarding the Corporation’s investment portfolio, please see “Investment Portfolio Credit Quality” on page 34 in Item 7 of this report. The Corporation will continue to monitor the investment ratings in the securities portfolio and the dealer price quotes. Based upon these and other factors, the securities portfolio may experience further impairment. Management currently has the intent and ability to retain its investment securities with unrealized losses until the decline in value has been recovered. 14 Table of Contents The Corporation’s allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which may reduce the Corporation’s earnings. The Corporation’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses and if the Corporation is required to increase its allowance, current earnings may be reduced. When borrowers default and do not repay the loans that the Bank makes to them, the Corporation may lose money. The Corporation’s experience shows that some borrowers either will not pay on time or will not pay at all, which will require the Corporation to write-down the carrying value at or “charge-off” the defaulted loan or loans. The Corporation provides for losses by reserving what it believes to be an adequate amount to absorb any probable inherent losses. A “charge-off” reduces the Corporation’s allowance for loan losses. If the Corporation’s allowance were insufficient, it would be required to increase the allowance by recording a larger provision for loan losses, which would reduce earnings for that period. Further deterioration in economic conditions could cause an increase in delinquencies and non-performing loans, including loan charge-offs, which in turn may negatively affect the Corporation’s income and growth. The Corporation’s loan portfolio includes many real estate secured loans, demand for which may decrease during economic downturns as a result of, among other things, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or increases in interest rates. These factors could depress the Corporation’s earnings and consequently its financial condition because: • customers may not want or need the Corporation’s products and services; • borrowers may not be able to repay their loans; • the value of the collateral securing the Corporation’s loans to borrowers may decline; and • the quality of the Corporation’s loan portfolio may decline. Any of the latter three scenarios could cause an increase in delinquencies and non-performing loans or require the Corporation to “charge-off” a percentage of its loans and/or increase the Corporation’s provisions for loan losses, which would reduce the Corporation’s earnings. Because the Corporation competes primarily on the basis of the interest rates it offers depositors and the terms of loans it offers borrowers, the Corporation’s margins could decrease if it were required to increase deposit rates or lower interest rates on loans in response to competitive pressure. The Corporation faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. The Corporation competes primarily on the basis of its depository rates, the terms of the loans it originates and the quality of the Corporation’s financial and depository services. This competition has made it more difficult for the Corporation to make new loans and at times has forced the Corporation to offer higher deposit rates in its market area. The Corporation expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Technological advances, for example, have lowered barriers to market entry, enabled banks to expand their geographic reach by providing services over the Internet and enabled non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally have been provided by banks. Federal banking law permits affiliation among banks, securities firms and insurance companies, which also may change the competitive environment in which the Corporation conducts business. Some of the institutions with which the Corporation competes are significantly larger than the Corporation and, therefore, have significantly greater resources. This increased competition could cause the Bank to increase interest rates it puts on its deposit amounts or decrease the interest rates it earns on its loans which could reduce the Corporation’s earnings. The Corporation is at risk for events that could disrupt business activities. The Corporation is subject to events that could impact or disrupt its business, although its goal is to ensure continuous service delivery to its customers. The Corporation has an enterprise-wide Business Continuity Plan in order to respond to and guard against this risk. However, no plan can fully eliminate such risk and there can be no assurance that the Corporation’s Plan will be successful. Provident Bank operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Provident Bank is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Commissioner of the Division of Financial Regulation of the State of Maryland, its chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of its deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which a commercial bank and its holding company may engage and is intended primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank and the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses. They may also impose monetary penalties in 15 Table of Contents certain circumstances. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material adverse impact on Provident Bank, the Corporation and their operations. The Corporation’s operations are also subject to extensive regulation by other federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of its operations. The Corporation believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Because its business is highly regulated, the Corporation may be subject to changes in such laws, rules and regulations that could have a material impact on its operations. The Corporation is subject to security and operational risks relating to use of its technology that could damage its reputation and business. Security breaches in the Corporation’s Internet banking activities could expose it to possible liability and damage its reputation. Any compromise of the Corporation’s security also could deter customers from using its Internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. The Corporation relies on standard Internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data and access to bank information systems. These precautions may not protect its systems from compromises or breaches of its security measures that could result in damage to its reputation and business. Additionally, the Corporation outsources its data processing to a third party. If the Corporation’s third party provider encounters difficulties or if the Corporation has difficulty in communicating with the third party, it will significantly affect the Corporation’s ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect its business operations. The Corporation’s customer data could also be exposed through transactions conducted over the Internet or through electronic communications networks operated by third parties not affiliated with the Corporation. The Corporation could be exposed to possible fraudulent losses and damage to its reputation as the result of compromises of customer data that occur at these third parties. Various factors could hinder or prevent takeover attempts. Provisions of the Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and federal and state regulations may make it difficult and expensive to pursue a takeover attempt of Provident that management opposes. These provisions also may make the removal of the current board of directors or management, or the appointment of new directors, more difficult. For example, the Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that could impede a takeover or prevent the Corporation from being acquired, including a classified board of directors and limitations on the ability of the Corporation’s stockholders to remove a director from office without cause. The Corporation’s board of directors may issue additional shares of common stock or establish classes or series of preferred stock with rights, preferences and limitations as determined by the board of directors without stockholder approval. These factors provide the board of directors the ability to prevent, or render more difficult or costly, the completion of a takeover transaction that the Corporation’s stockholders might view as being in their best interests. On December 18, 2008, the Corporation entered into the Merger Agreement with M&T. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, M&T will acquire Provident in a stock-for-stock merger transaction. The Merger Agreement has been approved by Provident and M&T’s board of directors and is subject to the approval of Provident’s common stockholders, regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. The Corporation anticipates completing the transaction in the second quarter of 2009. Changes in the Federal or State tax laws may negatively impact the financial performance of the Corporation. The Corporation is subject to changes in tax law that could increase the effective tax rate payable to the state or federal government. These law changes may be retroactive to previous periods and as a result, could negatively affect the current and future financial performance of the Corporation. Volatile and illiquid financial markets resulting from a significant event in the market may hinder the Corporations ability to increase or maintain its current liquidity position. Financial concerns in broad based financial sectors such as mortgage banking or homebuilding may result in a volatile and illiquid bond market and may reduce or eliminate the Corporation’s ability to pledge certain types of assets to increase or maintain its liquidity position. A decline in the Corporation’s liquidity position may hinder its ability to grow the balance sheet through internally generated loan growth or through acquisitions. The Corporation is subject to litigation risk. In the normal course of business, the Corporation may become involved in litigation, the outcome of which may have a direct material impact on our financial position and daily operations. Please see “Litigation” under Note 15, “Contingencies and Off-Balance Sheet Risk” for the current status of existing and threatened litigation. 16 Table of Contents Changes in accounting standards or interpretation in new or existing standards could materially affect the financial results of the Corporation. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the SEC change accounting regulations and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Corporation’s financial statements. In addition, the FASB, SEC, bank regulators and the outside independent auditors may revise their previous interpretations regarding existing accounting regulations and the application of these accounting standards. These revisions in their interpretations are out of the Corporation’s control and may have a material impact on the Corporations financial statements. The Corporation’s stock price can be volatile due to factors outside the Corporation’s control. The Corporation’s stock price can fluctuate widely as a result of a significant event in the financial markets, economic conditions, government regulations, U.S. Treasury and/or congressional actions, natural disasters or recommendations from financial security analysts. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 