Item 1A. Risk Factors Fluctuations in interest rates may reduce the Corporation’s net income and future cash flows. Interest rates were at historically low levels at June 2004 when the target federal funds rate was 1.0%. By June 2006, the U.S. Federal Reserve increased its target for the federal funds rate to 5.25%. Since then, the targeted federal funds rate has been reduced by 225 basis points to 3.00% as of January 2008. While these short-term market interest rates (which the Corporation uses as a guide to price its short-term loans and deposits) have decreased in 2007 and 2008, these rates have repriced downwards faster than longer-term market interest rates (which the Corporation uses as a guide to price its longer-term loans and deposits). If rates on the Corporation’s deposits and borrowings reprice downwards slower than the rates on the Corporation’s long-term loans and investments, the Corporation would experience compression of its interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on the Corporation’s profitability. Possible future acquisitions could involve risks and challenges that could adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to achieve its profitability goals for acquired businesses or realize anticipated benefits of those acquisitions. The Corporation has experienced moderate growth in the past several years and its strategy of future growth includes the possible acquisition of banking branches, other financial institutions and other financial services companies. However, the Corporation cannot assure investors that it will be able to identify suitable future acquisition opportunities or finance and complete any 11 particular acquisition, combination or other transaction on acceptable terms and prices. All acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges that could adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to achieve anticipated benefits of acquisitions. Further decline in value in certain investment securities held by the Corporation could require further write-downs, which would reduce the Corporation’s earnings. The Corporation’s investment portfolio includes pooled trust preferred securities backed by banks, insurance companies, and real estate investment trusts (“REITs”). In the fourth quarter of 2007, the Corporation determined that the loss in value on certain REIT trust preferred securities was other-than-temporary, and accordingly, recognized a $47.5 million impairment write-down related to those securities. The impairment write-down related to securities issued by residential mortgage REITs, which are facing a difficult operating environment due to the well-publicized difficulties facing the mortgage origination sector and homebuilders, who are also are facing challenges due to declining home sales. Continuing adverse business conditions could result in further loss in value in the REIT trust preferred securities held by the Corporation, which could result in further impairment write-downs. The securities in the municipal bond portfolio consist of geographically diversified securities that are insured by major bond insurers. Some of the bond insurers have been downgraded and others may follow. The recent downgrades reflect concerns about their ability to cover potential claims on issuers unable to make their principal or interest payments. Currently, all securities in this portfolio are rated AAA, AA, or single A by the three major rating agencies. For further information regarding the Corporation’s investment portfolio, please see “Investment Portfolio Credit Quality” on pages 8-9 in Item 1 of this Report. The Corporation will continue to monitor the investment ratings in the securities portfolio and the dealer price quotes. Based upon these and other factors, the securities portfolio may experience further impairment. Management currently has the intent and ability to retain its investment securities with unrealized losses until the decline in value has been recovered. The Corporation’s allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which may reduce the Corporation’s earnings. The Corporation’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses and if the Corporation is required to increase its allowance, current earnings may be reduced. When borrowers default and do not repay the loans that the Bank makes to them, the Corporation may lose money. The Corporation’s experience shows that some borrowers either will not pay on time or will not pay at all, which will require the Corporation to cancel or “charge-off” the defaulted loan or loans. The Corporation provides for losses by reserving what it believes to be an adequate amount to absorb any probable inherent losses. A “charge-off” reduces the Corporation’s allowance for loan losses. If the Corporation’s allowance were insufficient, it would be required to increase the allowance by recording a larger provision for loan losses, which would reduce earnings for that period. Changes in economic conditions could cause an increase in delinquencies and non-performing assets, including loan charge-offs, which in turn may negatively affect the Corporation’s income and growth. The Corporation’s loan portfolio includes many real estate secured loans, demand for which may decrease during economic downturns as a result of, among other things, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or increases in interest rates. These factors could depress the Corporation’s earnings and consequently its financial condition because: • customers may not want or need the Corporation’s products and services; • borrowers may not be able to repay their loans; • the value of the collateral securing the Corporation’s loans to borrowers may decline; and • the quality of the Corporation’s loan portfolio may decline. Any of the latter three scenarios could cause an increase in delinquencies and non-performing assets or require the Corporation to “charge-off” a percentage of its loans and/or increase the Corporation’s provisions for loan losses, which would reduce the Corporation’s earnings. Because the Corporation competes primarily on the basis of the interest rates it offers depositors and the terms of loans it offers borrowers, the Corporation’s margins could decrease if it were required to increase deposit rates or lower interest rates on loans in response to competitive pressure. The Corporation faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. The Corporation competes primarily on the basis of its depository rates, the terms of the loans it originates and the quality of the Corporation’s financial and depository services. This competition has made it more difficult for the Corporation to make new loans and at times has forced the Corporation to offer higher deposit rates in its market area. The Corporation expects competition to increase in the future as a result 12 of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Technological advances, for example, have lowered barriers to market entry, enabled banks to expand their geographic reach by providing services over the Internet and enabled non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally have been provided by banks. Federal banking law permits affiliation among banks, securities firms and insurance companies, which also may change the competitive environment in which the Corporation conducts business. Some of the institutions with which the Corporation competes are significantly larger than the Corporation and, therefore, have significantly greater resources. The Corporation is at risk for events that could disrupt business activities. The Corporation is subject to events that could impact or disrupt its business, although its goal is to ensure continuous service delivery to its customers. The Corporation has undertaken an enterprise-wide Business Continuity Plan in order to respond to and guard against this risk. However, no plan can fully eliminate such risk and there can be no assurance that the Corporation’s Plan will be successful. Provident Bank operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Provident Bank is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Commissioner of the Division of Financial Regulation of the State of Maryland, its chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of its deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which a commercial bank and its holding company may engage and is intended primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank and the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on Provident Bank, the Corporation and their operations. The Corporation’s operations are also subject to extensive regulation by other federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of its operations. The Corporation believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Because its business is highly regulated, the Corporation may be subject to changes in such laws, rules and regulations that could have a material impact on its operations. The Corporation is subject to security and operational risks relating to use of its technology that could damage its reputation and business. Security breaches in the Corporation’s Internet banking activities could expose it to possible liability and damage its reputation. Any compromise of the Corporation’s security also could deter customers from using its Internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. The Corporation relies on standard Internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data and access to bank informational systems. These precautions may not protect its systems from compromises or breaches of its security measures that could result in damage to its reputation and business. Additionally, the Corporation outsources its data processing to a third party. If the Corporation’s third party provider encounters difficulties or if the Corporation has difficulty in communicating with such third party, it will significantly affect the Corporation’s ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect its business operations. Various factors could hinder or prevent takeover attempts. Provisions of the Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and federal and state regulations may make it difficult and expensive to pursue a takeover attempt of Provident that management opposes. These provisions also may make the removal of the current board of directors or management, or the appointment of new directors, more difficult. For example, the Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that could impede a takeover or prevent the Corporation from being acquired, including a classified board of directors and limitations on the ability of the Corporation’s stockholders to remove a director from office without cause. The Corporation’s board of directors may issue additional shares of common stock or establish classes or series of preferred stock with rights, preferences and limitations as determined by the board of directors without stockholder approval. These factors provide the board of directors the ability to prevent, or render more difficult or costly, the completion of a takeover transaction that the Corporation’s stockholders might view as being in their best interests. Changes in the Federal or State tax laws may negatively impact the financial performance of the Corporation. The Corporation is subject to changes in tax law that could increase the effective tax rate payable to the state or federal government. These law changes may be retroactive to previous periods and as a result, could negatively affect the current and future financial performance of the Corporation. 13 Volatile and illiquid financial markets resulting from a significant event in the market may hinder the Corporations ability to increase or maintain its current liquidity position. Financial concerns in broad based financial sectors such as mortgage banking or home building may result in a volatile and illiquid bond market and may reduce or eliminate the Corporation’s ability to pledge certain types of assets to increase or maintain its liquidity position. A decline in the Corporation’s liquidity position may hinder its ability to grow the balance sheet through internally generated loan growth or through acquisitions. The Corporation is subject to litigation risk. In the normal course of business, the Corporation may become involved in litigation, the outcome of which may have a direct material impact on our financial position and daily operations. Please see “Litigation” under Note 14, “Contingencies of Off-Balance Sheet Risk” for the current status of existing and threatened litigation. Changes in accounting standards or interpretation in new or existing standards could materially affect the financial results of the Corporation. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the SEC change accounting regulations and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Corporation’s financial statements. In addition, the FASB, SEC, bank regulators and the outside independent auditors may revise their previous interpretations regarding existing accounting regulations and the application of these accounting standards. These revisions in their interpretations are out of the Corporation’s control and may have a material impact on the Corporations financial results of operations. The Corporation’s stock price can be volatile due to factors outside the Corporation’s control. The Corporation’s stock price can fluctuate widely as a result of a significant event in the financial markets, economic conditions, government regulations, natural disasters or recommendations from financial security analysts. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 