ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, and in our other filings with the SEC, before deciding whether to invest in or continue to hold our common stock. The risks described below are all material risks currently known, expected or reasonably foreseeable by us. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow could be seriously harmed. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, resulting in a loss of all or part of your investment. None of our independently developed products has been approved for sale, and we have a limited number of independent product candidates in clinical trials. If we do not develop commercially successful products, we may be forced to curtail or cease operations. All of our independent product candidates are either in research or development. We must conduct a substantial amount of additional research and development before any U.S. or foreign regulatory authority will approve any of our products. Limited data exist regarding the safety and efficacy of DNA vaccines or therapeutics compared with conventional vaccines or therapeutics. Results of our research and development activities may indicate that our potential products are unsafe or ineffective. In this case, regulatory authorities will not approve them. For example, our independent product candidates currently in ongoing clinical evaluation include Allovectin-7®, for which we announced initiation of Phase 3 clinical testing in 2007, our CMV vaccine, for which we initiated Phase 2 clinical testing in 2006, and our IL-2/EP program, which is currently in Phase 1 clinical testing. We may not sufficiently enroll patients in our Allovectin-7® trial and may not meet the primary endpoint as specified in our SPA. We may not conduct additional CMV vaccine trials, leading transplant centers may not participate or sufficiently enroll patients in our trials, and our CMV vaccine may not elicit sufficient immune responses in humans. We may not conduct additional IL-2/EP trials, and our IL-2/EP program may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to support product approval. Additionally, we are in various stages of development with several other product candidates, such as our influenza vaccine using Vaxfectin™ as an adjuvant, which is currently in preclinical development. These product candidates will require significant costs to advance through the development stages. If such product candidates 25 Table of Contents are advanced through clinical trials, the results of such trials may not support approval by the FDA or comparable foreign agencies. Even if approved, our products may not be commercially successful. If we fail to develop and commercialize our products, we may be forced to curtail or cease operations. Our revenues partially depend on the development and commercialization of products in collaboration with others to whom we have licensed our technologies or on whom we rely to support our development and commercialization efforts. If our collaborators or licensees are not successful or cease to support our development and commercialization efforts, or if we are unable to find collaborators or licensees in the future, we may not be able to derive revenues from these arrangements or may be forced to curtail our development and commercialization of certain products. We have licensed, and may continue to license, our technologies to corporate collaborators and licensees for the research, development and commercialization of specified product candidates. Our revenues partially depend upon the performance by these collaborators and licensees of their responsibilities under these arrangements. In addition, we have entered into a research and development agreement with AnGes, pursuant to which we rely on AnGes to fund the Phase 3 clinical trial of our cancer immunotherapeutic, Allovectin-7®. Some collaborators or licensees may not succeed in their product development efforts, such as Corautus, which recently announced that it did not plan to conduct further clinical trials for the treatment of peripheral arterial disease or coronary artery disease involving pDNA-based delivery of VEGF-2, and that it is pursuing a reverse merger with a private biotechnology company. Other collaborators or licensees may not devote sufficient time or resources to the programs covered by these arrangements, causing us to derive little or no revenue from these arrangements, or may cease to support our development and commercialization efforts. Our collaborators and licensees may breach or terminate their agreements with us, including some that may terminate their agreements without cause at any time subject to certain prior written notice requirements, and we may be unsuccessful in entering into and maintaining other collaborative arrangements for the development and commercialization of products using our technologies. Some of our independent product candidates and some of those under development by our sublicensees incorporate technologies we have licensed from others. If we are unable to retain rights to use these technologies, we or our sublicensees may not be able to market products incorporating these technologies on a commercially feasible basis, if at all. We have licensed certain technologies from corporate collaborators and research institutions, and sublicensed certain of such technologies to others, for use in the research, development and commercialization of product candidates. Our product development efforts and those of our sublicensees partially depend upon continued access to these technologies. For example, we or our licensors may breach or terminate our agreements, or disagree on interpretations of those agreements, which could prevent continued access to these technologies. If we were unable to resolve such matters on satisfactory terms, or at all, we or our sublicensees may be unable to develop and commercialize our products, and we may be forced to curtail or cease operations. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from agreements with government agencies, which are subject to termination and uncertain future funding. We have entered into agreements with government agencies, such as the NIH, and we intend to continue entering into these agreements in the future. For example, we receive grants from governmental agencies and have entered into agreements to manufacture DNA vaccines for the VRC. Our business is partially dependent on the continued performance by these government agencies of their responsibilities under these agreements, including adequate continued funding of the agencies and their programs. We have no control over the resources and funding that government agencies may devote to these agreements, which may be subject to annual renewal and which generally may be terminated by the government agencies at any time. For example, our 2003 26 Table of Contents subcontract agreement to manufacture bulk DNA vaccines for the VRC expired in December 2006. We do not expect to receive future material orders for the manufacture of bulk DNA from the subcontractor as the subcontractor has built its own DNA vaccine manufacturing facility to manufacture future VRC production orders. If we fail to satisfy our remaining contractual obligations to deliver the vaccines ordered by the VRC in the manner required by the 2003 subcontract agreement, we may be required to perform corrective actions, including but not limited to remanufacturing vaccines or components thereof at our expense, delivering to the VRC any uncompleted or partially completed work and/or other government property in our possession, and/or paying a third-party supplier selected by the VRC to complete any uncompleted work. For example, we have twice been obligated to remanufacture at our expense a component of a vaccine under our 2003 subcontract agreement with the VRC. The subcontractor is currently evaluating the latest remanufactured vaccine component. We believe this latest vaccine component meets the specifications under the terms of the contract. The performance of any future corrective actions could have a material adverse impact on our financial results in the period or periods affected. There are only a limited number of other contractors that could manufacture bulk DNA in the unlikely event that we were unable to perform our remaining responsibilities under the 2003 subcontract agreement. The price these other contractors might charge could be more than what we would charge based on their capacity, utilization, size of order and other factors. Accordingly, we are unable to estimate a range of potential cost that we could be required to pay if the VRC were to engage a substitute contractor to meet any performance obligations that we were unable to meet. Government agencies may fail to perform their responsibilities under these agreements, which may cause them to be terminated by the government agencies. In addition, we may fail to perform our responsibilities under these agreements. Many of our government agreements are subject to audits which may occur several years after the period to which the audit relates. If an audit identifies significant unallowable costs, we could incur a material charge to our earnings or reduction in our cash position. As a result, we may be unsuccessful entering or ineligible to enter into future government agreements. We apply for and have received funding from various government agencies. Eligibility of public companies to receive grants, such as Small Business Technology Transfer, or STTR, and SBIR grants, may be based on size and ownership criteria which are under review by the Small Business Administration, or SBA. As a result, our eligibility may change in the future, and additional funding from this source may not be available. We have a history of net losses. We expect to continue to incur net losses and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. To date, we have not sold or received approval to sell any pharmaceutical products. We do not expect to sell any pharmaceutical products for at least the next several years. Our net losses were approximately $23.1 million, $24.4 million and $23.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, we had incurred cumulative net losses totaling approximately $186.0 million. Moreover, we expect that our net losses will continue and may increase for the foreseeable future. We may not be able to achieve projected results if we generate lower revenues or receive lower investment income than expected, or we incur greater expenses than expected, or all of the above. We may never generate sufficient product revenue to become profitable. We also expect to have quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenues, expenses, and losses, some of which could be significant. We may need additional capital in the future. If additional capital is not available, we may have to curtail or cease operations. We may need to raise more money to continue the research and development necessary to bring our products to market and to establish marketing and additional manufacturing capabilities. We may seek additional 27 Table of Contents funds through public and private stock offerings, government contracts and grants, arrangements with corporate collaborators, borrowings under lease lines of credit or other sources. We have on file two effective shelf registration statements that in the aggregate allow us to raise up to an additional $111.6 million from the sale of common or preferred stock. However, we may not be able to raise additional funds on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional funds, we may have to scale back our development of new products, reduce our workforce or license to others products or technologies that we otherwise would seek to commercialize ourselves. The amount of money we may need would depend on many factors, including: • The progress of our research and development programs; • The scope and results of our preclinical studies and clinical trials; and • The time and costs involved in: obtaining necessary regulatory approvals; filing, prosecuting and enforcing patent claims; scaling up our manufacturing capabilities; and the commercial arrangements we may establish. The regulatory approval process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain, which may prevent us from obtaining required approvals for the commercialization of our products. Our product candidates under development and those of our collaborators and licensees are subject to extensive and rigorous regulations by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries. The regulations are evolving and uncertain. The regulatory process can take many years and require us to expend substantial resources. For example: • The FDA has not established guidelines concerning the scope of clinical trials required for gene-based therapeutic and vaccine products; • The FDA has provided only limited guidance on how many subjects it will require to be enrolled in clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of gene-based products; and • Current regulations and guidances are subject to substantial review by various governmental agencies. Therefore, U.S. or foreign regulations could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our products or limit our ability to develop and commercialize our products. Delays could: • Impose costly procedures on our activities; • Diminish any competitive advantages that we attain; or • Negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. We have no experience in filing BLAs with the FDA. Because a BLA must be filed with and approved by the FDA before a biologic product may be commercialized, our lack of experience may impede our ability to obtain FDA approval in a timely manner, if at all, for our products, which in turn would delay or prevent us from commercializing those products. Similarly, our lack of experience with respect to obtaining regulatory approvals in countries other than the U.S. may impede our ability to commercialize our products in those countries. We believe that the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory bodies will regulate separately each product containing a particular gene depending on its intended use. Presently, to commercialize any product we must sponsor and file a regulatory application for each proposed use. We must conduct clinical studies to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the product necessary to obtain FDA approval. The results obtained so far in our clinical trials may not be replicated in our ongoing or future trials. This may prevent any of our potential products from receiving FDA approval. We use recombinant DNA molecules in our product candidates, and therefore we also must comply with guidelines instituted by the NIH and its Office of Biotechnology Activities. The NIH could restrict or delay the development of our product candidates. 28 Table of Contents In March 2004, the NIH Office of Biotechnology Activities and the FDA Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research launched the jointly developed Genetic Modification Clinical Research Information System, or GeMCRIS, an Internet-based database of human gene transfer trials. In its current form, GeMCRIS enables individuals to easily view information on particular characteristics of clinical gene transfer trials, and includes special security features designed to protect patient privacy and confidential commercial information. These security features may be inadequate in design or enforcement, potentially resulting in disclosure of confidential commercial information. We understand that both the FDA and the NIH are considering rules and regulations that would require public disclosure of additional commercial development data that is presently confidential. In addition, the NIH, in collaboration with the FDA, has developed an Internet site, ClinicalTrials.gov, which provides public access to information on clinical trials for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Such disclosures of confidential commercial information, whether by implementation of new rules or regulations, by inadequacy of GeMCRIS security features, or by intentional posting on the Internet, may result in loss of advantage of competitive secrets. A rule published in 2002 by the FDA, known commonly as the “Animal Rule,” established requirements for demonstrating effectiveness of drugs and biological products in settings where human clinical trials for efficacy are not feasible or ethical. The rule requires as conditions for market approval the demonstration of safety and biological activity in humans, and the demonstration of effectiveness under rigorous test conditions in up to two appropriate species of animal. We believe that with appropriate guidance from the FDA, we may seek and win market approval under the Animal Rule for certain DNA-based products for which human clinical efficacy trials are not feasible or ethical. At the moment, however, we cannot determine whether the Animal Rule would be applied to any of our products, or if applied, that its application would result in expedited development time or regulatory review. Adverse events in the field of gene therapy, or with respect to our product candidates, may negatively impact regulatory approval or public perception of our products. The death in 1999 of a patient undergoing a viral-delivered gene therapy at the University of Pennsylvania in an investigator-sponsored trial was widely publicized. In October 2002, January 2003, and January 2005, three children in France who received viral-delivered ex vivo gene transfer for the treatment of X-linked Severe Combined Immunodeficiency Disease, called X-SCID or “bubble boy” syndrome, were diagnosed with leukemia that was potentially caused by the integration of the viral delivery vehicle in or near a cancer-causing region of the children’s genome. Certain gene therapy clinical trials were placed on clinical hold following the second child’s death, and the trial in which the children had been enrolled was again placed on hold following the third child’s death. In October 2004, the FDA requested that clinical trials of another company’s viral-delivered gene therapy product candidate be placed on clinical hold pending review of information pertaining to potential adverse events. A portion of one of the trials was subsequently allowed to resume. In 2003, the FDA proposed a new rule on “Safety Reporting Requirements for Human Drug and Biological Products” that would change the reporting requirements for drugs and biological products, such that any serious adverse event that cannot be definitely excluded as related to the product will be reported in an expedited manner. At present, sponsors of clinical research typically report on an annual basis all serious adverse events that have been deemed to be “unlikely” or “improbable.” The effect of this proposed rule will likely be to increase the number of expedited reports of serious adverse events to the FDA, which may create a perception of increased adverse events and higher risk profiles, despite no change in the actual severity or the actual number of adverse events that occur in the course of a product’s development. Some of our potential products may be administered to patients who are suffering from, or are vulnerable to, diseases which can themselves be life-threatening. For example, one patient who had undergone treatment with Allovectin-7® for advanced metastatic melanoma died more than two months later of progressive disease and numerous other factors after receiving multiple other cancer therapies. The death was originally reported as unrelated to the treatment. Following an autopsy, the death was reclassified as “probably related” to the treatment 29 Table of Contents because the possibility could not be ruled out. We do not believe Allovectin-7® was a significant factor in the patient’s death. As another example, in our Phase 2 trial, we are administering our investigational CMV vaccine to patients who are at risk of CMV reactivation. Although we do not believe our vaccine candidates could cause the diseases they are designed to protect against, a temporal relationship between vaccination and disease onset could be perceived as causal. Some of our products are designed to stimulate immune responses, and those responses, if particularly strong or uncontrolled, could result in local or systemic adverse events. These adverse events, and real or perceived risks, could result in greater government regulation and stricter labeling requirements for DNA-based vaccines or therapies, and may adversely impact market acceptance of some of our product candidates. Increased scrutiny in the field of gene therapy also may cause regulatory delays or otherwise affect our product development efforts or clinical trials. Our patents and proprietary rights may not provide us with any benefit and the patents of others may prevent us from commercializing our products. We are the assignee or co-assignee of 53 issued U.S. and foreign patents. We are also co-assignee, together with Sanofi Pasteur and the University of Texas Health Science Center, of two issued U.S. patents related to vaccines against Lyme disease. Once issued, we maintain our patents by paying maintenance fees to the patent office in each country when due. Where appropriate, we participate in legal proceedings to vigorously defend against the revocation or withdrawal of our patents. The scope and nature of these proceedings generally differ depending on the country in which they are initiated. Among these issued patents, a Japanese patent related to our core DNA delivery technology is the subject of two Trials for Invalidation, or TFIs; a recently granted patent in Europe related to our core DNA delivery technology has been opposed by eight parties; a patent granted in Europe covering a range of applications of our core DNA delivery technology using cationic lipid formulations was opposed, maintained in amended form and is currently in appeal proceedings; and a patent granted in Europe covering gene-based, extra-tumoral delivery of any cytokine for the treatment of cancer has also been opposed. If we are not successful in defending our patents, we may lose all or part of our proprietary rights related to those patents in these geographic regions. We are also prosecuting 100 pending patent applications in the U.S. and in foreign countries that cover various aspects of our proprietary technologies, not including patent applications for which we are a co-assignee and that are being prosecuted by our partners. Two of the pending foreign patent applications are international patent applications under the Patent Cooperation Treaty, each of which preserves our right to pursue national-phase patent applications in a large number of foreign countries. In addition, we are co-assignee, together with Merck, of U.S. and foreign patent applications related to DNA-based vaccines against influenza that are being prosecuted by Merck. We may not receive any patents from our current patent applications. Issued patents provide exclusivity for only a limited time period, after which they no longer serve to protect proprietary technologies or to provide any commercial advantage. Moreover, if patents are issued to us, governmental authorities may not allow claims sufficient to protect our technologies and products. Finally, others may challenge or seek to circumvent or invalidate our patents. In that event, the rights granted under our patents may be inadequate to protect our proprietary technologies or to provide any commercial advantage. Some components of our gene-based product candidates are, or may become, patented by others. As a result, we may be required to obtain licenses to conduct research, to manufacture, or to market such products. Licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which may impede our ability to commercialize our products. 30 Table of Contents The legal proceedings to obtain and defend patents, and litigation of third-party claims of intellectual property infringement, could require us to spend money and could impair our operations. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products and processes, both in the U.S. and in other countries. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, however, can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Therefore, it is difficult to predict the breadth of claims allowed in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical fields. We also rely on confidentiality agreements with our corporate collaborators, employees, consultants and certain contractors to protect our proprietary technologies. However, these agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for such breaches. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or independently discovered by our competitors. Protecting intellectual property rights can be very expensive. Litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. Moreover, if a competitor were to file a patent application claiming technology also invented by us, we would have to participate in an interference proceeding before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of the invention. We may be drawn into interferences with third parties or may have to provoke interferences ourselves to unblock third-party patent rights to allow us or our licensees to commercialize products based on our technologies. Litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management’s efforts regardless of the results of the litigation. An unfavorable result in litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed or require us to cease using some technologies. Our products and processes may infringe, or be found to infringe, patents not owned or controlled by us. Patents held by others may require us to alter our products or processes, obtain licenses, or stop activities. If relevant claims of third-party patents are upheld as valid and enforceable, we could be prevented from practicing the subject matter claimed in the patents, or may be required to obtain licenses or redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement. In addition, we could be required to pay money damages. A number of genetic sequences or proteins encoded by genetic sequences that we are investigating are, or may become, patented by others. As a result, we may have to obtain licenses to test, use or market these products. Our business will suffer if we are not able to obtain licenses at all or on terms commercially reasonable to us and we are not able to redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement. We have incurred costs in several legal proceedings involving our intellectual property rights in Europe, Japan and Canada. We may continue to incur costs to defend and prosecute patents and patent applications in these and other regions. Competition and technological change may make our product candidates and technologies less attractive or obsolete. We compete with companies, including major pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms, that are pursuing other forms of treatment or prevention for diseases that we target. We also may experience competition from companies that have acquired or may acquire technologies from universities and other research institutions. As these companies develop their technologies, they may develop proprietary positions which may prevent us from successfully commercializing products. Some of our competitors are established companies with greater financial and other resources than we have. Other companies may succeed in developing products and obtaining regulatory approval from the FDA or comparable foreign agencies faster than we do, or in developing products that are more effective than ours. Research and development by others may seek to render our technologies or products obsolete or noncompetitive or result in treatments or cures superior to any therapeutics developed by us. Furthermore, our products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers and the medical communities. If any of our products do not achieve market acceptance, we may lose our investment in that product, which could have a material adverse impact on our operations. 31 Table of Contents If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may not be able to achieve our business objectives. We are highly dependent on our principal scientific, manufacturing, clinical, regulatory and management personnel, including Vijay B. Samant, our President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of these individuals might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our objectives. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance on any of our personnel. We depend on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel. We face competition for qualified individuals from other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations in attracting and retaining personnel. To pursue our product development plans, we may need to hire additional management personnel and additional scientific personnel to perform research and development, as well as additional personnel with expertise in clinical trials, government regulation and manufacturing. However, due to the reasons noted above, we may not be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel and therefore we may not be able to achieve our business objectives. We have limited experience in manufacturing our product candidates in commercial quantities. We may not be able to comply with applicable manufacturing regulations or produce sufficient product for contract or commercial purposes. The commercial manufacturing of vaccines and other biological products is a time-consuming and complex process, which must be performed in compliance with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, regulations. We may not be able to comply with the cGMP regulations, and our manufacturing process may be subject to delays, disruptions or quality control problems. In addition, we may need to complete the installation and validation of additional large-scale fermentation and related purification equipment to produce the quantities of product expected to be required for commercial purposes. We have limited experience in manufacturing at this scale. Noncompliance with the cGMP regulations, the inability to complete the installation or validation of additional large-scale equipment, or other problems with our manufacturing process may limit or delay the development or commercialization of our product candidates, and cause us to breach our contract manufacturing service arrangements. We may initially depend on third parties to manufacture our product candidates commercially. We may initially depend on collaborators, licensees or other third parties to manufacture our product candidates in commercial quantities. There are a limited number of third parties that could manufacture our product candidates. We may be unable to enter into any arrangement for the commercial manufacture of our product candidates, and any arrangement we secure may not meet our requirements for manufacturing quality or quantity. Our dependence on third parties for the commercial manufacture of our product candidates may also reduce our profit margins and our ability to develop and deliver products in a timely manner. We have no marketing or sales experience, and if we are unable to develop our own sales and marketing capability, we may not be successful in commercializing our products. Our current strategy is to market our proprietary products directly in the U.S., but we currently do not possess pharmaceutical marketing or sales capabilities. To market and sell our proprietary products, we will need to develop a sales force and a marketing group with relevant pharmaceutical experience, or make appropriate arrangements with strategic partners to market and sell these products. Developing a marketing and sales force is expensive and time-consuming and could delay any product launch. If we are unable to successfully employ qualified marketing and sales personnel or develop other sales and marketing capabilities, we may not be able to generate sufficient product revenue to become profitable. 32 Table of Contents Healthcare reform and restrictions on reimbursement may limit our returns on potential products. Our ability to earn sufficient returns on our products will depend in part on how much, if any, reimbursement for our products and related treatments will be available from: • Government health administration authorities; • Government agencies procuring biodefense products for military or public use, including some for which we may become a sole-source vendor; • Private health coverage insurers; • Managed care organizations; and • Other organizations. If we fail to obtain appropriate reimbursement, we could be prevented from successfully commercializing our potential products. There are efforts by governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare through various means, including the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, which provides a new Medicare prescription drug benefit that was recently implemented and mandates other reforms. We expect that there will continue to be a number of legislative proposals to implement government controls. The adoption of such proposals or reforms could impair our business. Certain portions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, have become effective and may complicate the process by which clinical trials may be initiated. We believe we have taken the necessary action to ensure compliance with HIPAA; however, the specific nature and degree of impact are not yet fully known. Additionally, third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price of medical products and services. If purchasers or users of our products are not able to obtain adequate reimbursement for the cost of using our products, they may forego or reduce their use. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products, and whether adequate third-party coverage will be available. We use hazardous materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development processes involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials, biological hazardous materials and minor amounts of low-level radioactive compounds. Our hazardous materials include certain compressed gases, flammable liquids, acids and bases, and other toxic compounds. We are subject to federal, state and local regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of materials and waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by law and regulation, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result. We have insurance that covers our use of hazardous materials with the following coverage limits: up to $25,000 per occurrence for losses related to the release of bio-contaminants, $1 million per occurrence for losses from refrigerant contamination and $25,000 per occurrence for losses from radioactive contamination. Any liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the coverage of our insurance. We could incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. We may have significant product liability exposure. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that our technologies or products are alleged to have caused harm. We also have potential liability for products manufactured by us on a contract basis for third parties. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance in the amount of $10 million in the aggregate, this insurance coverage may not be sufficient, and we 33 Table of Contents may not be able to obtain sufficient coverage in the future at a reasonable cost. Our inability to obtain product liability insurance at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of any products developed by us or our collaborators, or our ability to manufacture products for third parties. If we are sued for any injury caused by our technologies or products, or by third-party products that we manufacture, our liability could exceed our insurance coverage and total assets. Our stock price could continue to be highly volatile and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you pay for them. The market price of our common stock, like that of many other life sciences companies, has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. From January 1, 2003, to December 31, 2006, our stock price has ranged from $2.12 to $8.14. The following factors, among others, could have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • The results of our preclinical studies and clinical trials or announcements regarding our plans for future studies or trials, or those of our collaborators, licensees or competitors; • Evidence or lack of evidence of the safety or efficacy of our potential products or those of our collaborators, licensees or competitors; • The announcement by us or our collaborators, licensees or competitors of technological innovations or new products; • Developments concerning our patent or other proprietary rights or those of our collaborators, licensees or competitors, including litigation and challenges to our proprietary rights; • Other developments with our collaborators or licensees, including our entry into new collaborative or licensing arrangements; • Geopolitical developments, natural or man-made disease threats, or other events beyond our control; • U.S. and foreign governmental regulatory actions; • Changes or announcements in reimbursement policies; • Period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results; • Market conditions for life science stocks in general; • Changes in the collective short interest in our stock; • Changes in estimates of our performance by securities analysts; and • Our cash balances, need for additional capital, and access to capital. We are at risk of securities class action litigation due to our expected stock price volatility. In the past, stockholders have brought securities class action litigation against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially acute for us because life science companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years and, as a result, have been subject to, on average, a greater number of securities class action claims than companies in other industries. To date, we have not been subject to class action litigation. However, we may in the future be the target of this litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, and could seriously harm our business. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include anti-takeover provisions, such as a classified board of directors, a prohibition on stockholder actions by written consent, the authority of our board of directors to issue 34 Table of Contents preferred stock without stockholder approval, and supermajority voting requirements for specified actions. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. These provisions may delay or prevent an acquisition of us, even if the acquisition may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, they may discourage or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect our common stockholders. We have on file two effective shelf registration statements that in the aggregate allow us to raise up to an additional $111.6 million from the sale of common or preferred stock. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock, and reduce the likelihood that our common stockholders will receive dividend payments and payments upon liquidation. The issuance of preferred stock could also decrease the market price of our common stock, or have terms and conditions that could discourage a takeover or other transaction that might involve a premium price for our shares or that our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 