Risk Factors—Our patents and proprietary rights may not provide us with any benefit and the patents of others may prevent us from commercializing our products,” and “—The legal proceedings to obtain and defend patents, and litigation of third-party claims of intellectual property infringement, could require us to spend money and could impair our operations.” 19 Commercialization and Manufacturing Because of the broad potential applications of our technologies, we intend to develop and commercialize products both on our own and through our collaborators and licensees. We intend to develop and commercialize products to well-defined specialty markets, such as infectious diseases, oncology and other life-threatening diseases. Where appropriate, we intend to rely on strategic marketing and distribution alliances. We believe our plasmids can be produced in commercial quantities through uniform methods of fermentation and processing that are applicable to all plasmids. In addition, our formulations consist of components that are synthesized chemically using traditional, readily scaleable organic synthesis procedures. We produce and supply our own plasmids for all of our research needs and clinical trials and intend to produce sufficient supplies for all foreseeable clinical investigations. In 2002, we signed a 15-year lease on a facility that we believe will be sufficient for our foreseeable commercial manufacturing requirements. The facility received a California Food and Drug Branch manufacturing facility license and began production in 2004. We also engage in contract manufacturing of plasmid investigational products for selected clients. Competition Technological development could result in our product candidates or technologies becoming obsolete before we recover a significant portion of our related research, development, and capital expenditures. We may experience competition both from other companies in our field and from companies which have other forms of treatment for the diseases we are targeting. We are aware of several development-stage and established enterprises, including major pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms, which are actively engaged in infectious disease vaccine research and development. These include Acambis plc, Sanofi-Aventis, Novartis, Crucell N.V., GlaxoSmithKline plc, MedImmune, Inc., Merck, VaxGen, and Wyeth among others. We may also experience competition from companies that have acquired or may acquire technologies from companies, universities and other research institutions. As these companies develop their technologies, they may develop proprietary technologies which may materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, a number of companies are developing products to address the same diseases that we are targeting. For example, MedImmune, Roche, GlaxoSmithKline, ViroPharma Inc. and others have products or development programs for CMV treatment and prevention. Medarex Inc., Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Pfizer Inc., Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Bayer AG, and others are developing treatments for melanoma. If these or any other companies develop products with efficacy or safety profiles significantly better than our products, we may not be able to commercialize our products, and sales of any of our commercialized products could be harmed. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater product development capabilities and financial, scientific, marketing and human resources than we do. Competitors may develop products earlier, obtain FDA approvals for products more rapidly, or develop products that are more effective than those under development by us. We will seek to expand our technological capabilities to remain competitive, however, research and development by others may render our technologies or products obsolete or noncompetitive, or result in treatments or cures superior to ours. Our competitive position will be affected by the disease indications addressed by our product candidates and those of our competitors, the timing of market introduction for these products and the stage of development of other technologies to address these disease indications. For us and our competitors, proprietary technologies, the ability to complete clinical trials on a timely basis and with the desired results, and the ability to obtain timely regulatory approvals to market these product candidates are likely to be significant competitive factors. Other important competitive factors will include the efficacy, safety, ease of use, reliability, availability and price of products and the ability to fund operations during the period between technological conception and commercial sales. 20 Regulatory agencies such as the FDA and other government agencies may expand current requirements for public disclosure of DNA-based product development data, which may harm our competitive position with foreign and U.S. companies developing DNA-based products for similar indications. Government Regulation Any products we develop will require regulatory clearances prior to clinical trials and additional regulatory clearances prior to commercialization. New gene-based products for vaccine or therapeutic applications are expected to be subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and comparable agencies in other countries. The precise regulatory requirements with which we will have to comply are uncertain at this time due to the novelty of the gene-based products and indications, or uses, that are currently under development. We believe that our potential products will be regulated either as biological products or as drugs. In the United States, drugs are subject to regulation under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or the FDC Act. Biological products, in addition to being subject to provisions of the FDC Act, are regulated in the United States under the Public Health Service Act. Both statutes and related regulations govern, among other things, testing, manufacturing, safety, efficacy, labeling, storage, record keeping, advertising, and other promotional practices. In 2003, the FDA proposed a new rule on “Safety Reporting Requirements for Human Drug and Biological Products” that changed the reporting requirements for drugs and biological products, such that any unexpected serious adverse event that cannot be definitely excluded as related to the product will be reported in an expedited manner. At present, sponsors of clinical research typically report on an annual basis all serious adverse events including those for which the relationship to the product has been deemed “unlikely” or “improbable.” The effect of this proposed rule will likely be to increase the number of expedited reports to the FDA of serious adverse events whose relationships are “unlikely” or “improbable”, which may create a perception of increased adverse events and higher risk profiles, despite no change in the actual severity or the actual number of adverse events that occur in the course of a product’s development. Obtaining FDA approval of a drug or biologic is a costly and time-consuming process. Generally, FDA approval requires that preclinical studies be conducted in the laboratory and in animal model systems to gain preliminary information on efficacy and to identify any major safety concerns. The results of these studies are submitted as a part of an IND application which the FDA must review and allow before human clinical trials can start. The IND application includes a detailed description of the proposed clinical investigations. A company must sponsor and file an IND application for each proposed product and must conduct clinical studies to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the product necessary to obtain FDA approval. The FDA receives reports on the progress of each phase of clinical testing and may require the modification, suspension, or termination of clinical trials if an unwarranted risk is presented to patients. To obtain FDA approval prior to marketing a pharmaceutical product in the United States typically requires several phases of clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the product candidate. Clinical trials are the means by which experimental drugs or treatments are tested in humans, and for new therapeutics, are typically conducted following preclinical testing. Clinical trials may be conducted within the United States or in foreign countries. If clinical trials are conducted in foreign countries, the products under development as well as the trials are subject to regulations of the FDA and/or its counterparts in the other countries. Upon successful completion of clinical trials, approval to market the treatment for a particular patient population may be requested from the FDA in the United States and/or its counterparts in other countries. Clinical trials for therapeutic products are normally done in three phases. Phase 1 clinical trials are typically conducted with a small number of patients or healthy subjects to evaluate safety, determine a safe dosage range, identify side effects, and, if possible, gain early evidence of effectiveness. Phase 2 clinical trials are conducted with a larger group of patients afflicted with a target disease to evaluate effectiveness of an investigational drug for a defined patient population, and to determine common short-term side effects and risks associated with the drug. Phase 3 clinical trials involve large scale, multi-center, comparative trials that are conducted with patients 21 afflicted with a target disease to evaluate the overall benefit-risk relationship of the investigational drug and to provide an adequate basis for product labeling. For life-threatening diseases, initial human testing generally is done in patients afflicted with the target disease rather than healthy subjects. These studies may provide results traditionally obtained in Phase 2 trials and are referred to as “Phase 1/2” trials. In some special cases where the efficacy testing of a product may present a special challenge to testing in humans, such as in the case of a vaccine to protect healthy humans from a life-threatening disease that is not a naturally occurring threat, effectiveness testing may be required in animals. After completion of clinical trials of a new product, FDA marketing approval must be obtained. If the product is regulated as a biologic, a Biologics License Application, or BLA, is required. If the product is classified as a new drug, a New Drug Application, or NDA, is required. The NDA or BLA must include results of product development activities, preclinical studies, and clinical trials in addition to detailed chemistry, manufacturing and control information. A rule published in 2002 by the FDA, known commonly as the “Animal Rule,” established requirements for demonstrating effectiveness of drugs and biological products in settings where human clinical trials for efficacy are not feasible or ethical. The rule requires as conditions for market approval the demonstration of safety and biological activity in humans, and the demonstration of effectiveness under rigorous test conditions in up to two appropriate species of animal. We believe that with appropriate guidance from the FDA, we may seek and win market approval under the Animal Rule for certain DNA-based products for which clinical efficacy trials are not feasible or ethical. Applications submitted to the FDA are subject to an unpredictable and potentially prolonged approval process. Despite good-faith communication and collaboration between the applicant and the FDA during the development process, the FDA may ultimately decide, upon final review of the data, that the application does not satisfy its criteria for approval or requires additional product development or further preclinical or clinical studies. Even if FDA regulatory clearances are obtained, a marketed product is subject to continual review, and later discovery of previously unknown problems or failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements may result in restrictions on the marketing of a product or withdrawal of the product from the market as well as possible civil or criminal sanctions. Before marketing clearance for a product can be secured, the facility in which the product is manufactured must be inspected by the FDA and must comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, regulations. In addition, after marketing clearance is secured, the manufacturing facility must be inspected periodically for cGMP compliance by FDA inspectors, and, if the facility is located in California, by inspectors from the Food and Drug Branch of the California Department of Health Services. In addition to the FDA requirements, the NIH has established guidelines for research involving human genetic materials, including recombinant DNA molecules. The FDA cooperates in the enforcement of these guidelines, which apply to all recombinant DNA research that is conducted at facilities supported by the NIH, including proposals to conduct clinical research involving gene therapies. The NIH review of clinical trial proposals and safety information is a public process and often involves review and approval by the Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee, Office of Biotechnology Activities, of the NIH. We understand that both the FDA and the NIH are considering rules and regulations that would require public disclosure of commercial development data that are presently confidential for all clinical trials regardless of therapeutic area. This potential disclosure of commercial confidential information, if implemented, may result in loss of competitive secrets, which could be commercially detrimental. We also are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations, and recommendations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, the experimental use of animals, and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, including radioactive compounds and infectious disease agents, used in connection with our research. The extent of government regulation that might result from any future legislation or administrative action cannot be accurately predicted. 22 Employees As of December 31, 2005, we had 155 full-time employees, including 22 with doctorate degrees. Of these full-time employees, 128 are engaged in, or directly support, research and development and manufacturing activities, and 27 are in general and administrative positions. A significant number of our management and other employees have prior experience with pharmaceutical and/or biotechnology companies. None of our employees is covered by collective bargaining agreements, and our management considers relations with our employees to be good. Executive Officers and Other Executives Our executive officers and other executives are as follows: Name Age1 Position Vijay B. Samant2 53 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director David C. Kaslow, M.D.2 47 Chief Scientific Officer Jill M. Church2 44 Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary Alain P. Rolland, Pharm.D., Ph.D. 46 Senior Vice President, Product Development Kevin R. Bracken 57 Vice President, Manufacturing Robin M. Jackman, Ph.D. 36 Vice President, Business Development 1 As of December 31, 2005. 2 Executive officer. Vijay B. Samant joined us as President and Chief Executive Officer in November 2000. Mr. Samant has 23 years of diverse U.S. and international sales, marketing, operations, and business development experience with Merck. From 1998 to mid-2000, he was Chief Operating Officer of the Merck Vaccine Division. From 1990 to 1998, he served in the Merck Manufacturing Division as Vice President of Vaccine Operations, Vice President of Business Affairs, and Executive Director of Materials Management. Mr. Samant earned his M.B.A. from the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1983. He received a master’s degree in chemical engineering from Columbia University in 1977 and a bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering from the University of Bombay, University Department of Chemical Technology, in 1975. David C. Kaslow, M.D., joined us as Chief Scientific Officer in October 2001. Dr. Kaslow has more than 20 years of vaccine research experience. Dr. Kaslow joined Merck in February 1999 as Senior Director, Vaccine Research, and was employed by Merck, most recently as Head of the Department of Vaccine Research and Technology, until he joined Vical. From 1986 to 1999, he held various senior research positions at the NIH, including Head of the Recombinant Protein Development Unit and the Malaria Vaccine Development Unit at the Laboratory of Parasitic Diseases. Dr. Kaslow has been awarded numerous professional honors, including the U.S. Public Health Service Outstanding Service Medal. He has published more than 120 scientific papers, and authored more than 20 review articles and book chapters. He holds or co-holds 13 patents. Dr. Kaslow received his M.D. from the School of Medicine at the University of California, San Francisco, in 1983 and his bachelor’s degree from the University of California, Davis, in 1979. Jill M. Church joined us as Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary in October 2004. From February 1999 until joining us, Ms. Church held various positions at dj Orthopedics, Inc., a publicly-traded medical device company, most recently as Vice President of Finance and Controller with broad responsibilities in finance, accounting, treasury, risk management, and corporate governance. From September 1994 until joining dj Orthopedics, Ms. Church served as an audit manager at Ernst & Young LLP, where her clients included life sciences, computer software and telecommunications companies as well as government contractors. From June 1990 until joining Ernst & Young, she was Division Controller at Medical Imaging Centers of America, Inc., a chain of freestanding imaging centers and mobile imaging centers, where she held divisional accounting and financial reporting responsibilities. Ms. Church received her bachelor’s degree in business administration and accounting from San Diego State University, and is a Certified Public Accountant. 23 Alain P. Rolland, Pharm.D., Ph.D., joined us as Vice President, Product Development in August 2002 and was named Senior Vice President, Product Development in April 2004. Dr. Rolland was Senior Vice President of Pre-Clinical Research and Development, and Head of The Woodlands Center of Valentis, Inc. from 2000 to 2002. From 1993 to 1999, he served in several positions at a predecessor company to Valentis, Inc., GeneMedicine, Inc., where he progressed from Director of Gene Delivery to Vice President of Research. From 1989 to 1993, he was the Head of Formulation Research at the Research & Development Center of Galderma International, or CIRD, in France. Prior to that, he was a scientist at the Advanced Drug Delivery Research Center of Ciba Geigy Pharmaceuticals in the United Kingdom. He received his Pharm.D., D.E.A., and Ph.D. degrees from Rennes University, France. Dr. Rolland holds several U.S. and European patents on advanced drug and gene delivery for medical applications. He has authored numerous publications and books in the area of nonviral gene delivery resulting from his active career in research and development. He also serves on the editorial board of several journals and he is the Editor-in-Chief of “Current Pharmaceutical Biotechnology.” Kevin R. Bracken joined us as Vice President, Manufacturing in October 2001. From July 1998 to October 2001, Mr. Bracken was Vice President, Process Engineering and Manufacturing for Universal Preservation Technologies, Inc., and from November 1995 to July 1998, he was Director of Engineering for Molecular Biosystems, Inc. Prior to November 1995, he held a variety of process and engineering positions with Gilead Sciences, Inc., and a predecessor company, Vestar, Inc., with Baxter International, and with E.I. duPont de Nemours and Company. He brings experience in commercial scale-up of biopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities, process development and optimization, and direction of research, pre-clinical, clinical, production and contract manufacturing. Mr. Bracken earned his master’s degree in chemical engineering from the University of Rochester in 1973, and his bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering from the University of Delaware in 1970. Robin M. Jackman, Ph.D., joined us as Vice President, Business Development in June 2004. Since 2002, Dr. Jackman had been Vice President of Corporate Development at Sequenom, Inc., where he focused primarily on business development and investor relations. From 1998 to 2002, he served in positions of increasing responsibility within the Life Sciences Investment Banking group at Robertson Stephens, culminating as Vice President. He managed a broad range of transactions for biotechnology, medical device, and emerging pharmaceutical companies with an aggregate transaction value over $11 billion. Dr. Jackman received a Ph.D. in immunology from Harvard University, and a master’s degree in medicine from Harvard Medical School, during which time he was a biomedical consultant to the investment community. He began his career as a research associate at Protein Design Labs. Dr. Jackman received a bachelor’s degree with honors in biological science from Stanford University. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, and in our other filings with the SEC, before deciding whether to invest in or continue to hold our common stock. The risks described below are all material risks currently known, expected or reasonably foreseeable by us. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow could be seriously harmed. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, resulting in a loss of all or part of your investment. None of our independently developed products has been approved for sale, and we have a limited number of independent product candidates in clinical trials. If we do not develop commercially successful products, we may be forced to curtail or cease operations. All of our independent product candidates are either in research or development. We must conduct a substantial amount of additional research and development before any U.S. or foreign regulatory authority will approve any of our products. Limited data exist regarding the safety and efficacy of DNA-based vaccines or therapeutics compared with conventional vaccines or therapeutics. Results of our research and development activities may indicate that our potential products are unsafe or ineffective. In this case, regulatory authorities will not approve them. 24 For example, our independent product candidates currently in clinical evaluation include our CMV vaccine, for which we initiated Phase 2 clinical testing in early 2006, and our IL-2 EP program, which is currently in Phase 1 clinical testing. We may not conduct additional CMV vaccine trials, leading transplant centers may not participate in our trials, and our CMV vaccine may not elicit sufficient immune responses in humans. We may not conduct additional IL-2 EP trials, and our IL-2 EP program may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to support product approval. Additionally, we are in various stages of development with several other product candidates. These product candidates will require significant costs to advance through the development stages. If such product candidates are advanced through clinical trials, the results of such trials may not support approval by the FDA or comparable foreign agencies. Even if approved, our products may not be commercially successful. If we fail to develop and commercialize our products, we may be forced to curtail or cease operations. We may not be able to identify and reach agreement with a potential partner for the further development and commercialization of Allovectin-7®. We are currently seeking a partner for Allovectin-7® and do not expect to pursue further development of Allovectin-7® until such time, if any, as we identify and reach agreement with a partner. We may not be able to reach agreement with a potential partner on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to reach agreement with a partner in a timely manner will prevent or delay continued development and potential commercialization of Allovectin-7®. Even if approved, Allovectin-7® may not be commercially successful. Our revenues partially depend on the development and commercialization of products by others to whom we have licensed our technologies. If our collaborators or licensees are not successful or if we are unable to find collaborators or licensees in the future, we may not be able to derive revenues from these arrangements. We have licensed, and may continue to license, our technologies to corporate collaborators and licensees for the research, development and commercialization of specified product candidates. Our revenues partially depend upon the performance by these collaborators and licensees of their responsibilities under these arrangements. Some collaborators or licensees may not succeed in their product development efforts or devote sufficient time or resources to the programs covered by these arrangements, causing us to derive little or no revenue from these arrangements. Our collaborators and licensees may breach or terminate their agreements with us, including some that may terminate their agreements without cause at any time subject to certain prior written notice requirements, and we may be unsuccessful in entering into and maintaining other collaborative arrangements for the development and commercialization of products using our technologies. Some of our independent product candidates and some of those under development by our sublicensees incorporate technologies we have licensed from others. If we are unable to retain rights to use these technologies, we or our sublicensees may not be able to market products incorporating these technologies on a commercially feasible basis, if at all. We have licensed certain technologies from corporate collaborators and research institutions, and sublicensed certain of such technologies to others, for use in the research, development and commercialization of product candidates. Our product development efforts and those of our sublicensees partially depend upon continued access to these technologies. For example, we or our licensors may breach or terminate our agreements, or disagree on interpretations of those agreements, which could prevent continued access to these technologies. If we were unable to resolve such matters on satisfactory terms, or at all, we or our sublicensees may be unable to develop and commercialize our products, and we may be forced to curtail or cease operations. 25 A significant portion of our revenue is derived from agreements with government agencies, which are subject to termination and uncertain future funding. We have entered into agreements with government agencies, such as the NIH, and we intend to continue entering into these agreements in the future. For example, we have entered into an agreement to manufacture bulk DNA vaccines for the VRC. In connection with this agreement, the VRC has provided a 500-liter fermenter and related purification equipment as Government Furnished Equipment, or GFE, in our manufacturing facility. Our business is partially dependent on the continued performance by these government agencies of their responsibilities under these agreements, including adequate continued funding of the agencies and their programs. We have no control over the resources and funding that government agencies may devote to these agreements, which may be subject to annual renewal and which generally may be terminated by the government agencies at any time. If we fail to satisfy our contractual obligations to deliver the vaccines ordered by the VRC in the manner required by the agreement, the applicable Federal Acquisition Regulations allow the VRC to cancel the agreement in whole or in part, and we may be required to perform corrective actions, including but not limited to delivering to the VRC any uncompleted or partially completed work, or GFE or other government property in our possession, or paying a third-party supplier selected by the VRC to complete any uncompleted work. The performance of these corrective actions could have a material adverse impact on our financial results in the period or periods affected. Government agencies may fail to perform their responsibilities under these agreements, which may cause them to be terminated by the government agencies. In addition, we may fail to perform our responsibilities under these agreements. Many of our government agreements are subject to audits which may occur several years after the period to which the audit relates. If an audit identifies significant unallowable costs, we could incur a material charge to our earnings or reduction in our cash position. As a result, we may be unsuccessful or ineligible to enter into future government agreements. There are only a limited number of other contractors that could manufacture bulk DNA in the unlikely event that we were unable to perform our responsibilities under these agreements. The price these other contractors might charge could be more than what we would charge based on their capacity, utilization, size of order and other factors. Accordingly, we are unable to estimate a range of potential cost that we could be required to pay if the VRC were to engage a substitute contractor to meet any performance obligations that we were unable to meet. We apply for and have received funding from government agencies under Small Business Technology Transfer, or STTR, and Small Business Innovation Research, or SBIR, grants. Eligibility of public companies to receive such grants is based on size and ownership criteria which are under review by the Small Business Administration, or SBA. As a result, our eligibility may change in the future, and additional funding from this source may not be available. We have a history of net losses. We expect to continue to incur net losses and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. To date, we have not sold or received approval to sell any pharmaceutical products. We do not expect to sell any pharmaceutical products for at least the next several years. Our net losses were approximately $24.4 million, $23.7 million and $24.5 million for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. As of December 31, 2005, we had incurred cumulative net losses totaling approximately $162.9 million. Moreover, we expect that our net losses will continue and may increase for the foreseeable future. We may not be able to achieve projected results if we generate lower revenues or receive lower investment income than expected, or we incur greater expenses than expected, or all of the above. We may never generate sufficient product revenue to become profitable. We also expect to have quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenues, expenses, and losses, some of which could be significant. 26 We may need additional capital in the future. If additional capital is not available, we may have to curtail or cease operations. We may need to raise more money to continue the research and development necessary to bring our products to market and to establish marketing and additional manufacturing capabilities. We may seek additional funds through public and private stock offerings, government contracts and grants, arrangements with corporate collaborators, borrowings under lease lines of credit or other sources. In January 2006, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC which, if and when it is declared effective, would allow us to issue from time to time an aggregate of up to $70 million of common or preferred stock. We also have on file an effective shelf registration statement that allows us to raise up to an additional $8.8 million from the sale of common or preferred stock. However, we may not be able to raise additional funds on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional funds, we may have scale back our development of new products, reduce our workforce or license to others products or technologies that we otherwise would seek to commercialize ourselves. The amount of money we may need would depend on many factors, including: • The progress of our research and development programs; • The scope and results of our preclinical studies and clinical trials; and • The time and costs involved in: obtaining necessary regulatory approvals; filing, prosecuting and enforcing patent claims; scaling up our manufacturing capabilities; and the commercial arrangements we may establish. The regulatory approval process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain, which may prevent us from obtaining required approvals for the commercialization of our products. Our product candidates under development and those of our collaborators and licensees are subject to extensive and rigorous regulations by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries. The regulations are evolving and uncertain. The regulatory process can take many years and require us to expend substantial resources. For example: • The FDA has not established guidelines concerning the scope of clinical trials required for gene-based therapeutic and vaccine products; • The FDA has provided only limited guidance on how many subjects it will require to be enrolled in clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of gene-based products; and • Current regulations and guidances are subject to substantial review by various governmental agencies. Therefore, U.S. or foreign regulations could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our products or limit our ability to develop and commercialize our products. Delays could: • Impose costly procedures on our activities; • Diminish any competitive advantages that we attain; or • Negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. We have limited experience in filing BLAs or NDAs with the FDA. Because a BLA or NDA must be filed with and approved by the FDA before a biologic product or new drug product, respectively, may be commercialized, our lack of experience may impede our ability to obtain FDA approval in a timely manner, if at all, for our products, which in turn would delay or prevent us from commercializing those products. Similarly, our lack of experience with respect to obtaining regulatory approvals in countries other than the U.S. may impede our ability to commercialize our products in those countries We believe that the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory bodies will regulate separately each product containing a particular gene depending on its intended use. Presently, to commercialize any product we must sponsor and file a regulatory application for each proposed use. We must conduct clinical studies to demonstrate 27 the safety and efficacy of the product necessary to obtain FDA approval. The results obtained so far in our clinical trials may not be replicated in our ongoing or future trials. This may prevent any of our potential products from receiving FDA approval. We use recombinant DNA molecules in our product candidates, and therefore we also must comply with guidelines instituted by the NIH and its Office of Biotechnology Activities. The NIH could restrict or delay the development of our product candidates. In March 2004, the NIH Office of Biotechnology Activities and the FDA Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research launched the jointly developed Genetic Modification Clinical Research Information System, or GeMCRIS, an Internet-based database of human gene transfer trials. In its current form, GeMCRIS enables individuals to easily view information on particular characteristics of clinical gene transfer trials, and includes special security features designed to protect patient privacy and confidential commercial information. These security features may be inadequate in design or enforcement, potentially resulting in disclosure of confidential commercial information. We understand that both the FDA and the NIH are considering rules and regulations that would require public disclosure of additional commercial development data that is presently confidential. In addition, the NIH, in collaboration with the FDA, has developed an Internet site, ClinicalTrials.gov, which provides public access to information on clinical trials for a wide range of diseases and conditions. Such disclosures of confidential commercial information, whether by implementation of new rules or regulations, by inadequacy of GeMCRIS security features, or by intentional posting on the Internet, may result in loss of advantage of competitive secrets. A rule published in 2002 by the FDA, known commonly as the “Animal Rule,” established requirements for demonstrating effectiveness of drugs and biological products in settings where human clinical trials for efficacy are not feasible or ethical. The rule requires as conditions for market approval the demonstration of safety and biological activity in humans, and the demonstration of effectiveness under rigorous test conditions in up to two appropriate species of animal. We believe that with appropriate guidance from the FDA, we may seek and win market approval under the Animal Rule for certain DNA-based products for which human clinical efficacy trials are not feasible or ethical. At the moment, however, we cannot determine whether the Animal Rule would be applied to any of our products, or if applied, that its application would result in expedited development time or regulatory review. Adverse events in the field of gene therapy, or with respect to our product candidates, may negatively impact regulatory approval or public perception of our products. The death in 1999 of a patient undergoing a viral-delivered gene therapy at the University of Pennsylvania in an investigator-sponsored trial was widely publicized. In October 2002, January 2003, and January 2005, three children in France who received viral-delivered ex vivo gene transfer for the treatment of X-linked Severe Combined Immunodeficiency Disease, called X-SCID or “bubble boy” syndrome, were diagnosed with leukemia that was caused by the integration of the viral delivery vehicle in or near a cancer-causing region of the children’s genome. Certain gene therapy clinical trials were placed on clinical hold following the second child’s death, and the trial in which the children had been enrolled was again placed on hold following the third child’s death. In October 2004, the FDA requested that clinical trials of another company’s viral-delivered gene therapy product candidate be placed on clinical hold pending review of information pertaining to potential adverse events. A portion of one of the trials was subsequently allowed to resume. In 2003, the FDA proposed a new rule on “Safety Reporting Requirements for Human Drug and Biological Products” that would change the reporting requirements for drugs and biological products, such that any serious adverse event that cannot be definitely excluded as related to the product will be reported in an expedited manner. At present, sponsors of clinical research typically report on an annual basis all serious adverse events that have been deemed to be “unlikely” or “improbable.” The effect of this proposed rule will likely be to increase the number of expedited reports of serious adverse events to the FDA, which may create a perception of 28 increased adverse events and higher risk profiles, despite no change in the actual severity or the actual number of adverse events that occur in the course of a product’s development. Some of our potential products may be administered to patients who are suffering from, or are vulnerable to, diseases which can themselves be life-threatening. For example, one patient who had undergone treatment with Allovectin-7® for advanced metastatic melanoma died more than two months later of progressive disease and numerous other factors after receiving multiple other cancer therapies. The death was originally reported as unrelated to the treatment. Following an autopsy, the death was reclassified as “probably related” to the treatment because the possibility could not be ruled out. We do not believe Allovectin-7® was a significant factor in the patient’s death. As another example, in our Phase 2 trial, we plan to administer our investigational CMV vaccine to patients who are at risk of CMV reactivation. Although we do not believe our vaccine candidates could cause the diseases they are designed to protect against, a temporal relationship between vaccination and disease onset could be perceived as causal. Some of our products are designed to stimulate immune responses, and those responses, if particularly strong or uncontrolled, could result in local or systemic adverse events. These adverse events, and real or perceived risks, could result in greater government regulation and stricter labeling requirements for DNA-based vaccines or therapies, and may adversely impact market acceptance of some of our product candidates. Increased scrutiny in the field of gene therapy also may cause regulatory delays or otherwise affect our product development efforts or clinical trials. Our patents and proprietary rights may not provide us with any benefit and the patents of others may prevent us from commercializing our products. We are the assignee of 43 issued U.S. and foreign patents. We are also co-assignee, together with Sanofi Pasteur and the University of Texas Health Science Center, of two issued U.S. patents related to vaccines against Lyme disease. In addition, we have been granted a Japanese patent related to our core DNA delivery technology that is subject to Trials for Invalidation, or TFIs; a recently granted patent in Europe related to our core DNA delivery technology has been opposed by eight parties; a patent granted in Europe covering a range of applications of our core DNA delivery technology using cationic lipid formulations has been opposed; and a patent granted in Europe covering gene-based, extra-tumoral delivery of any cytokine for the treatment of cancer has also been opposed. We are also prosecuting 62 pending patent applications in the U.S. and in foreign countries that cover various aspects of our proprietary technologies, not including patent applications for which we are a co-assignee and that are being prosecuted by our partners. Three of the pending foreign patent applications are international patent applications under the PCT, each of which preserves our right to pursue national-phase patent applications in a large number of foreign countries. In addition, we are co-assignee, together with Merck, of U.S. and foreign patent applications related to DNA-based vaccines against influenza that are being prosecuted by Merck. We may not receive any patents from our current patent applications. Issued patents provide exclusivity for only a limited time period, after which they no longer serve to protect proprietary technologies or to provide any commercial advantage. Moreover, if patents are issued to us, governmental authorities may not allow claims sufficient to protect our technologies and products. Finally, others may challenge or seek to circumvent or invalidate our patents. In that event, the rights granted under our patents may be inadequate to protect our proprietary technologies or to provide any commercial advantage. Once issued, we maintain our patents by paying maintenance fees to the patent office in each country when due. Where appropriate, we participate in legal proceedings to vigorously defend against the revocation or withdrawal of our patents. The scope and nature of these proceedings generally differ depending on the country in which they are initiated. For example: in Europe, four patents granted to us have been opposed and one was revoked as a consequence of opposition; in Japan, one patent granted to us was opposed and subsequently subjected to TFIs; 29 and in Canada, a protest was lodged against a patent application filed by us. If we are not successful in defending our patents, we may lose all or part of our proprietary rights related to those patents in these geographic regions. Some components of our gene-based product candidates are, or may become, patented by others. As a result, we may be required to obtain licenses to conduct research, to manufacture, or to market such products. Licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which may impede our ability to commercialize our products. The legal proceedings to obtain and defend patents, and litigation of third-party claims of intellectual property infringement, could require us to spend money and could impair our operations. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products and processes, both in the U.S. and in other countries. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, however, can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Therefore, it is difficult to predict the breadth of claims allowed in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical fields. We also rely on confidentiality agreements with our corporate collaborators, employees, consultants and certain contractors to protect our proprietary technologies. However, these agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for such breaches. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or independently discovered by our competitors. Protecting intellectual property rights can be very expensive. Litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. Moreover, if a competitor were to file a patent application claiming technology also invented by us, we would have to participate in an interference proceeding before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of the invention. We may be drawn into interferences with third parties or may have to provoke interferences ourselves to unblock third-party patent rights to allow us or our licensees to commercialize products based on our technologies. Litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management’s efforts regardless of the results of the litigation. An unfavorable result in litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed or require us to cease using some technologies. Our products and processes may infringe, or be found to infringe, patents not owned or controlled by us. Patents held by others may require us to alter our products or processes, obtain licenses, or stop activities. If relevant claims of third-party patents are upheld as valid and enforceable, we could be prevented from practicing the subject matter claimed in the patents, or may be required to obtain licenses or redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement. In addition, we could be required to pay money damages. A number of genetic sequences or proteins encoded by genetic sequences that we are investigating are, or may become, patented by others. As a result, we may have to obtain licenses to test, use or market these products. Our business will suffer if we are not able to obtain licenses at all or on terms commercially reasonable to us and we are not able to redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement. We have incurred costs in several legal proceedings involving our intellectual property rights in Europe, Japan and Canada. We may continue to incur costs to defend and prosecute patents and patent applications in these and other regions. Competition and technological change may make our product candidates and technologies less attractive or obsolete. We compete with companies, including major pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms, that are pursuing other forms of treatment or prevention for diseases that we target. We also may experience competition from companies that have acquired or may acquire technologies from universities and other research institutions. As these companies develop their technologies, they may develop proprietary positions which may prevent us from successfully commercializing products. 30 Some of our competitors are established companies with greater financial and other resources than we have. Other companies may succeed in developing products and obtaining regulatory approval from the FDA or comparable foreign agencies faster than we do, or in developing products that are more effective than ours. Research and development by others may seek to render our technologies or products obsolete or noncompetitive or result in treatments or cures superior to any therapeutics developed by us. Further our products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers and the medical communities. If any of our products do not achieve market acceptance, we may lose our investment in that product, which could have a material adverse impact on our operations. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may not be able to achieve our business objectives. We are highly dependent on our principal scientific, manufacturing, clinical, regulatory and management personnel, including Vijay B. Samant, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and David C. Kaslow, our Chief Scientific Officer. The loss of the services of these individuals might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our objectives. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance on any of our personnel. We depend on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel. We face competition for qualified individuals from other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations in attracting and retaining personnel. To pursue our product development plans, we may need to hire additional management personnel and additional scientific personnel to perform research and development, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical trials, government regulation and manufacturing. However, due to the reasons noted above, we may not be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel and therefore we may not be able to achieve our business objectives. We have limited experience in manufacturing our product candidates in commercial quantities. We may not be able to comply with applicable manufacturing regulations or produce sufficient product for contract or commercial purposes. The commercial manufacturing of vaccines and other biological products is a time-consuming and complex process, which must be performed in compliance with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, regulations. We may not be able to comply with the cGMP regulations, and our manufacturing process may be subject to delays, disruptions or quality control problems. In addition, we may need to complete the installation and validation of additional large-scale fermentation and related purification equipment to produce the quantities of product expected to be required for commercial purposes. We have limited experience in manufacturing at this scale. Noncompliance with the cGMP regulations, the inability to complete the installation or validation of additional large-scale equipment, or other problems with our manufacturing process may limit or delay the development or commercialization of our product candidates, and cause us to breach our contract manufacturing service arrangements. We may initially depend on third parties to manufacture our product candidates commercially. We may initially depend on collaborators, licensees or other third parties to manufacture our product candidates in commercial quantities. There are a limited number of third parties that could manufacture our product candidates. We may be unable to enter into any arrangement for the commercial manufacture of our product candidates, and any arrangement we secure may not meet our requirements for manufacturing quality or quantity. Our dependence on third parties for the commercial manufacture of our product candidates may also reduce our profit margins and our ability to develop and deliver products in a timely manner. We have no marketing or sales experience, and if we are unable to develop our own sales and marketing capability, we may not be successful in commercializing our products. Our current strategy is to market our proprietary products directly in the U.S., but we currently do not possess pharmaceutical marketing or sales capabilities. To market and sell our proprietary products, we will need 31 to develop a sales force and a marketing group with relevant pharmaceutical experience, or make appropriate arrangements with strategic partners to market and sell these products. Developing a marketing and sales force is expensive and time-consuming and could delay any product launch. If we are unable to successfully employ qualified marketing and sales personnel or develop other sales and marketing capabilities, we may not be able to generate sufficient product revenue to become profitable. Healthcare reform and restrictions on reimbursement may limit our returns on potential products. Our ability to earn sufficient returns on our products will depend in part on how much, if any, reimbursement for our products and related treatments will be available from: • Government health administration authorities; • Government agencies procuring biodefense products for military or public use, including some for which we may become a sole-source vendor; • Private health coverage insurers; • Managed care organizations; and • Other organizations. If we fail to obtain appropriate reimbursement, we could be prevented from successfully commercializing our potential products. There are efforts by governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare through various means, including the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, which provides a new Medicare prescription drug benefit that was recently implemented and mandates other reforms. We expect that there will continue to be a number of legislative proposals to implement government controls. The adoption of such proposals or reforms could impair our business. Certain portions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, have become effective and may complicate the process by which clinical trials may be initiated. We believe we have taken the necessary action to ensure compliance with HIPAA; however, the specific nature and degree of impact are not yet fully known. Additionally, third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price of medical products and services. If purchasers or users of our products are not able to obtain adequate reimbursement for the cost of using our products, they may forego or reduce their use. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products, and whether adequate third-party coverage will be available. We use hazardous materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development processes involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials, biological hazardous materials and minor amounts of low-level radioactive compounds. Our hazardous materials include certain compressed gases, flammable liquids, acids and bases, and other toxic compounds. We are subject to federal, state and local regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of materials and waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by law and regulation, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result. We have insurance that covers our use of hazardous materials with the following coverage limits: up to $25,000 per occurrence for losses related to the release of bio-contaminants, $1 million per occurrence for losses from refrigerant contamination and $25,000 per occurrence for losses from radioactive contamination. Any liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the coverage of our insurance. We could incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. 32 We may have significant product liability exposure. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that our technologies or products are alleged to have caused harm. We also have potential liability for products manufactured by us on a contract basis for third parties. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance in the amount of $10 million in the aggregate, this insurance coverage may not be sufficient, and we may not be able to obtain sufficient coverage in the future at a reasonable cost. Our inability to obtain product liability insurance at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of any products developed by us or our collaborators, or our ability to manufacture products for third parties. However, if we are sued for any injury caused by our technologies or products, or by third-party products that we manufacture, our liability could exceed our insurance coverage and total assets. Our stock price could continue to be highly volatile and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you pay for them. The market price of our common stock, like that of many other life sciences companies, has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. From January 1, 2002 to December 31, 2005, our stock price has ranged from $2.12 to $12.48. The following factors, among others, could have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • The results of our preclinical studies and clinical trials or announcements regarding our plans for future studies or trials, or those of our collaborators, licensees or competitors; • Evidence or lack of evidence of the safety or efficacy of our potential products or those of our collaborators, licensees or competitors; • The announcement by us or our collaborators, licensees or competitors of technological innovations or new products; • Developments concerning our patent or other proprietary rights or those of our collaborators, licensees or competitors, including litigation and challenges to our proprietary rights; • Other developments with our collaborators or licensees, including our entry into new collaborative or licensing arrangements; • Geopolitical developments, natural or man-made disease threats, or other events beyond our control; • U.S. and foreign governmental regulatory actions; • Changes or announcements in reimbursement policies; • Period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results; • Market conditions for life science stocks in general; • Changes in the collective short interest in our stock; • Changes in estimates of our performance by securities analysts; and • Our cash balances, need for additional capital, and access to capital. We are at risk of securities class action litigation due to our expected stock price volatility. In the past, stockholders have brought securities class action litigation against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially acute for us because life science companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years and, as a result, have been subject to, on average, a greater number of securities class action claims than companies in other industries. To date, we have not been subject to class action litigation. However, we may in the future be the target of this litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, and could seriously harm our business. 33 Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include anti-takeover provisions, such as a classified board of directors, a prohibition on stockholder actions by written consent, the authority of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, and supermajority voting requirements for specified actions. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. These provisions may delay or prevent an acquisition of us, even if the acquisition may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, they may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect our common stockholders. In January 2006, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC which, if and when it is declared effective, would allow us to issue from time to time an aggregate of up to $70 million of common or preferred stock. We also have on file an effective shelf registration statement that allows us to raise up to an additional $8.8 million from the sale of common or preferred stock. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock, and reduce the likelihood that our common stockholders will receive dividend payments and payments upon liquidation. The issuance of preferred stock could also decrease the market price of our common stock, or have terms and conditions that could discourage a takeover or other transaction that might involve a premium price for our shares or that our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 