ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We rely on several large customers and the loss of one of these customers would have a material adverse impact on our operating results and cash flows. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, we had two customers that accounted for approximately 47% of our consolidated sales and our top twenty-five customers accounted for 86% of our consolidated sales. While we maintain sales contracts with certain of our largest customers, such contracts do not guarantee sales levels and these contracts require renewal on a regular basis in the ordinary course of business. We cannot guarantee that these contracts will be successfully renewed in the future. The loss or substantial reduction of the business of any of our major customers could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Competition in our business could limit our ability to retain current customers and attract new customers. We have a large number of competitors in the markets in which we operate. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than us. We could face competitive pressure through (a) new products developed by our competitors that are of superior quality, fit our customer’s needs better or have lower pricing; (b) patents obtained or developed by competitors; (c) consolidation of our competitors; (d) pricing pressures; and (e) loss of proprietary supplies of certain materials. The inability to successfully overcome competition in our business could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and cash flows. Raw material cost increases or shortages could adversely affect our results of operations. As a manufacturer, our sales and profitability are dependent upon the availability and cost of raw materials, which are subject to price fluctuations, and the ability to control or pass on fluctuating costs of raw materials. Inflationary and other increases in the costs of raw materials have occurred in the past and are continuing to recur, and our performance depends in part on our ability to improve operating efficiencies and reflect changes in costs in selling prices for our products. Slower growth in key markets could adversely affect our profitability. Our business could be negatively impacted by a decline in key end use markets or applications for our products and services. Our operating results and cash flows could be influenced by changes in the markets in which we operate. Our ability to develop and market new products is critical for maintaining growth. Our success depends upon the timely introduction of new products as well as improvements to current products. Research and development relies on innovation and requires anticipation of market trends. Our future results and ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our ability to successfully identify, develop and sell new or improved products. We rely primarily on printing presses in our Decorating Solutions segment and on temporary labor in our Packaging Services segment. The long-term shutdown of our presses, malfunctions experienced with our presses or the unavailability of workers in the temporary labor market could negatively impact our ability to fulfill customers’ orders and on-time delivery needs and adversely impact our operating results and cash flows. Our inability to completely implement our new business information system and to stay current with our information technology systems could have a material adverse impact on our business. We are increasingly dependent on the information technology systems we have put into place and any significant breakdown, viruses or destruction could negatively impact our business. We upgrade and install new systems, which if installed or programmed incorrectly, could cause significant disruptions. If a disruption occurs, we could incur losses and costs for interruption of our operations. If the quality of our products and services does not meet our customer expectations, we may experience decreased sales and earnings. Occasionally, we ship products with quality issues resulting from defective material, manufacturing, packaging or design. When issues are discovered after shipment, this causes additional shipping costs, possible discounts or refunds, and potential loss of future sales. Issues discovered before shipping cause delays in shipping, delays in the manufacturing process and potential cancelled orders. These quality issues could adversely affect our profitability as well as negatively impact our reputation. 8 Table of Contents Our business growth strategy is partially executed through acquisitions and we may not be successful with future acquisitions. Although we have completed many acquisitions, there can be no assurances that we will find quality businesses at acceptable prices to acquire in the future. With each acquisition that we may complete, we will encounter risks and uncertainties associated with the transaction. We may be unable to retain certain customers and employees and the integration of product lines, procedures, systems and goals may not be successful. Any expected cost synergies from an acquisition may be difficult to obtain. The failure in our ability to successfully integrate a future acquisition may negatively impact our operating results. Acquisitions could cause us to incur additional debt, contingent liabilities and increased interest expense, as well as experience dilution in earnings per share. We need to comply with various environmental, health and safety laws. Due to the nature of our business, we are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We incur routine costs in complying with these regulations and, if we fail to comply, could incur significant penalties. In addition, failure to comply with environmental requirements could require us to shut down or reduce production or create liability exposure. New environmental laws or regulations may be adopted that could constrain our operations or increase our environmental compliance costs. We must be able to continue to effectively manage our growth. We have experienced significant and steady growth over the last several years which places significant demands on our resources and personnel and we must continue to motivate and guide our growing and evolving workforce. The failure to effectively manage our growth could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION STAFF COMMENTS None 