ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We rely on several large customers and the loss of one of these customers would have a material adverse impact on our operating results and cash flows. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, two customers accounted for approximately 22% of our consolidated sales and our top twenty-five customers accounted for 61% of our consolidated sales. While we maintain sales contracts with certain of our largest customers, such contracts do not guarantee sales levels and these contracts require renewal on a regular basis in the ordinary course of business. We cannot guarantee that these contracts will be successfully renewed in the future. The loss or substantial reduction in business of any of our major customers could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and cash flows. Competition in our business could limit our ability to retain current customers and attract new customers. We have a large number of competitors in the markets in which we operate. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than us. We could face competitive pressure through (a) new products developed by our competitors that are of superior quality, fit our customers’ needs better or have lower prices; (b) patents obtained or developed by competitors; (c) consolidation of our competitors; (d) pricing pressures; and (e) loss of proprietary supplies of certain materials. The inability to successfully overcome competition in our business could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and cash flows. Raw material cost increases or shortages could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. As a manufacturer, our sales and profitability are dependent upon the availability and cost of raw materials, which are subject to price fluctuations, and the ability to control or pass on fluctuating costs of raw materials. Inflationary and other increases in the costs of raw materials and energy have occurred in the past and are continuing to recur. Our future performance depends in part on our ability to improve operating efficiencies and pass raw material cost increases to our customers. We have risks related to continued uncertain global economic and credit conditions. The Company’s operating cash flows provide funding for debt repayment and various discretionary items such as capital expenditures and dividends. Uncertainty in global economic conditions has negatively impacted the overall economy which has adversely impacted demand for our products and our ability to manage commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors. Slower growth or a decline in key markets could adversely affect our profitability. Our business could be negatively impacted by continued slower growth or a decline in key end use markets or applications for our products and services which could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Changes in the regulatory or administrative environment could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Laws and regulations at both the state, federal and international levels frequently change and the cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. Any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of any new governmental legislation that impacts employment/labor, trade, health care, tax, environmental or other business issues could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with our international operations. We have operations in the United States, Australia, South Africa, Europe and China and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. As a result, our business is exposed to risks inherent in foreign operations. These risks, which can vary substantially by market, include the difficulties associated with managing an organization with operations in multiple countries, 6 Table of Contents compliance with differing laws and regulations (including tax laws, regulations and rates), enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems, restrictive actions by foreign governments, changes in economic conditions in each market, foreign customers who may have longer payment cycles than customers in the United States, political and social conditions (including wars, terrorist acts and political instability) and acts of nature, such as typhoons, tsunamis, or earthquakes. Approximately 37% of our net revenues were derived from our foreign operations (based on the country from which the product was shipped) during fiscal 2011. We also face the challenges and uncertainties associated with operating in developing markets such as China, which may subject us to a relatively high risk of political instability and economic volatility, all of which are enhanced, in many cases, by uncertainties as to how local law is applied and enforced, including in areas most relevant to commercial transactions and foreign investment. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our revenue and financial results. Our revenues and earnings and the value of our foreign net assets are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may favorably or adversely affect reported earnings and net assets. Currency exchange rates fluctuate in response to, among other things, changes in local, regional or global economic conditions, the imposition of currency exchange restrictions and unexpected changes in regulatory or taxation environments. Our ability to develop and market new products is critical for maintaining growth. Our success depends upon the timely introduction of new products as well as improvements to current products. Research and development relies on innovation and requires anticipation of market trends. Our future results and ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our ability to successfully identify, develop and sell new or improved products. We rely primarily on printing presses. The long-term shutdown of our presses or malfunctions experienced with our presses could negatively impact our ability to fulfill customers’ orders and on-time delivery needs and adversely impact our operating results and cash flows. Our ability to stay current with our information technology systems could have a material adverse impact on our business. We are increasingly dependent on the information technology systems we have put into place and any significant breakdown, viruses or destruction could negatively impact our business. We upgrade and install new systems, which if installed or programmed incorrectly, could cause significant disruptions. If a disruption occurs, we could incur losses and costs for interruption of our operations. If the quality of our products and services does not meet our customer expectations, we may experience decreased sales and earnings. Occasionally, we ship products with quality issues resulting from defective material, manufacturing, packaging or design. Issues discovered after shipment may cause additional shipping costs, possible discounts or refunds, and potential loss of future sales. Issues discovered before shipping may cause delays in shipping, delays in the manufacturing process and potential cancelled orders. These quality issues could adversely affect our profitability as well as negatively impact our reputation. Our business growth strategy is partially executed through acquisitions and we may not be successful with acquisitions. Although we have completed many acquisitions, there can be no assurance that we will find quality businesses at acceptable prices to acquire in the future. With each acquisition that we may complete, we will encounter risks and uncertainties associated with the transaction. We may be unable to retain certain customers and employees and the integration of product lines, procedures, systems and goals may not be successful. Any expected cost synergies from an acquisition may be difficult to obtain. The failure in our ability to successfully integrate an acquisition may negatively impact our operating results and cash flows. Future acquisitions could cause us to incur additional debt, contingent liabilities and increased interest expense, as well as experience dilution in earnings per share. Our leverage and restrictions contained in our debt agreements could have significant consequences. As of March 31, 2011, our consolidated indebtedness, including current maturities of long-term indebtedness, was $127,331, which could have important consequences including the following: • Increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • Requiring a substantial portion of cash flows from operating activities to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and, as a result, reducing our ability to use our cash flows to fund our operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, capitalize on future business opportunities and expand our business; • Exposing us to the risk of increased interest expense as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; • Limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, additional acquisitions and other business purposes; and • Limiting our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and react to competitive pressures. 7 Table of Contents We may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our debt agreements. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Our debt agreements contain covenants that limit our flexibility in operating our business. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Among other things, these covenants limit our ability to: • Incur additional indebtedness; • Make certain investments or loans; • Transfer or sell certain assets; • Create or permit liens on assets; and • Consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. The agreements governing our indebtedness also require us to maintain (i) a minimum consolidated net worth, (ii) a maximum consolidated leverage ratio of 3.75 to 1.00, stepping down to 3.25 to 1.00 from September 30, 2011 to March 31, 2012 and stepping down again to 3.00 to 1.00 at June 30, 2012 for each fiscal quarter thereafter; and (iii) a minimum consolidated interest charge coverage ratio of 4.00 to 1.00. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our debt agreements, which could prompt the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding under the debt agreements to be immediately due and payable and terminate commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay these amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral that secures the indebtedness. We need to comply with various environmental, health and safety laws. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We routinely incur costs in complying with these regulations and, if we fail to comply, could incur significant penalties. In addition, failure to comply with environmental requirements could require us to shut down or reduce production or create liability exposure. New environmental laws or regulations may be adopted that could constrain our operations or increase our environmental compliance costs. We must be able to continue to effectively manage our growth. We have experienced significant and steady growth over the last several years. Our growth, in particular the acquisitions of Monroe Etiquette in October 2010, CentroStampa in July 2010 and Collotype in February 2008, places significant demands on our resources and personnel and we must continue to motivate and guide our growing and evolving workforce. The failure to effectively manage our growth could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and cash flows. We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet; an impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets may adversely affect our operating results. As of March 31, 2011, we had $196,573 of goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet, the value of which depends on a number of factors, including earnings growth, market capitalization and the overall success of our business. Accounting standards require us to test goodwill annually for impairment, and more frequently when events or circumstances indicate impairment may exist. There can be no assurance that future reviews of our goodwill and other intangible assets will not result in impairment charges. Although it does not affect cash flow, an impairment charge does have the effect of decreasing our earnings, assets and shareholders’ equity. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION STAFF COMMENTS None. 