ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Before deciding to buy, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this Report and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are what we consider our most significant risks, but they are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. 5 Table of Contents We face intense competition in the retail point of sale industry which could reduce our market share. Intuit and Microsoft both offer competing point of sale software products. These products were either acquired or licensed from our competitors. Although we have successfully competed against these products in the past, both Intuit and Microsoft have significant financial resources to market and modify their products, and, therefore, we may not be able to continue to successfully compete against them in the future. Our stock is thinly traded. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them. Our common stock has historically maintained a low trading volume of shares per day. This trend is likely to continue. The population of our target customers is declining. Our target customers are small-to-medium size retailers. These target customers are under intense competitive pressure from large retail chains such as Wal-Mart and others. These large retailers are gaining market share at the expense of our target customers. This intense competition causes some small retailers to go out of business, and others to consolidate with other small regional retail chains. This results in a shrinking population of our target customers. This also causes our target customers to be more cautious about capital spending for their retail business. These factors can cause substantial fluctuations in our revenues and in our results of operations. This current trend in the retail industry may exist indefinitely and could seriously impact our revenue and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our original core business of computer system sales is in decline. The sales of turnkey computer systems for the retail market declined by approximately 10% this last fiscal year. This decline is due to market factors outside of our control and may continue. We do not foresee a turn around in the near future. In response to this decline, we have shifted our business emphasis to the processing of credit card payments and other similar transactions. The growth in our X-Charge payment processing business is primarily the result of adding new customers. The revenue from our payment processing services grew by approximately 78% from fiscal 2004 to fiscal 2005 and accounted for approximately 26% of all revenue in fiscal 2005. This growth was due primarily to adding new customers, rather than increases in revenue from existing customers. We may not be able to continue to add new customers at the same rate in the future, in which case, our revenue growth may slow down substantially. We may face patent or proprietary rights litigation in the future. Although we believe that our products do not infringe on any third party’s patents, we may become involved in litigation involving patents or proprietary rights. Patent and proprietary rights litigation entails substantial legal and other costs, and we may not have the necessary financial or management resources to defend or prosecute our rights in connection with any litigation. Other factors which may affect operating results include: — the availability and pricing of competing products and the resulting effects on sales; — the effectiveness of expense and cost control efforts; — the ability to develop and deliver software products to market in a timely manner; — the rate at which present and future customers adopt our new products and services in our target markets; — the effects of new and emerging technologies; — the ability to retain and hire key executives, management, technical personnel and other employees that are needed to implement business and product plans; — the level of orders received that can be shipped in a fiscal quarter. 6 Table of Contents Due to all of the foregoing factors, and the other risks discussed in this report, you should not rely on quarter to quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indication of future performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 