ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Information Statements other than historical information contained in this Form 10-K are considered “forward-looking statements” as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry, management’s beliefs and certain assumptions made by our Company. Words such as “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “project,” “estimate,” “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “potential,” or “continue” or the negative or variations of these words or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Although we believe that these forward-looking statements are reasonable at the time they are made, these statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially from our historical results and those expressed or forecasted in any forward-looking statement as a result of a variety of factors as set forth below. We are not required and undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements for any reason, even if new information becomes available or other events occur in the future. In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following are some of the factors as of May 31, 2007, that could cause our Company’s actual results to differ materially from the expected results described in or underlying our Company’s forward-looking statements. These factors should be considered carefully while evaluating our business and prospects. If any of the following risks actually occur, they could seriously harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We depend on one supplier to manufacture and distribute all of our products to our customers. Pursuant to a Supply Agreement dated June 30, 2005 between our Company and Schreiber Foods, Inc. (“Schreiber”), since November 2005, we depend primarily on Schreiber to manufacture and distribute all of our products to our customers. We will rely primarily on Schreiber to produce our products at prices that are competitive in the market, to maintain the quality of our products, and to supply our customers with the products they order on a timely basis. If Schreiber is unable to deliver its services according to the negotiated terms of the Supply Agreement for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition or over-commitment of its resources, we may lose customers and we may be required to purchase outsourcing services from another source at a higher price. Either of these occurrences will likely reduce our profits or result in a reduction in sales of our products. We may be required to pay substantial penalties under our Supply Agreement and may not have the ability to do so. The initial term of the Supply Agreement with Schreiber is for a period of five years from the effective date of September 1, 2005 and is renewable at our option for up to two additional five-year periods (for a total term up to fifteen years). If we do not exercise our first option to extend the term, then we will be obligated to pay Schreiber $1,500,000. If we exercise our first option to extend the term, but do not exercise our second option to extend the term, then we will be obligated to pay Schreiber $750,000. Additionally, the Supply Agreement originally provided for a contingent short-fall payment obligation up to $8,700,000 by our Company if a specified production level was not met during the one-year period from September 1, 2006 to August 31, 2007. If a contingent short-fall payment was accrued after such one-year period, it could be reduced by the amount by which production levels in the one-year period from September 1, 2007 to August 31, 2008 exceeded the specified target level of production, if any. The short-fall payment is based on a formula that calculates the payment as follows: ((required pounds shipped - actual pounds shipped) / required pounds shipped) * $8,700,000. In November 2006, the Supply Agreement was amended so that the short-fall payment obligation would not be measured until the one-year period from September 1, 2009 to August 31, 2010, and the target level of production was reduced by approximately 22%. 9 Although we have significantly improved our gross margins by discontinuing production of low margin products, our total sales (and the corresponding volume of our products being produced) have been substantially reduced. We will need to greatly increase our present production volume before the measuring period from September 1, 2009 to August 31, 2010 in order to avoid a substantial shortfall payment. Based on our present production volume, the estimated short-fall payment could exceed $6,200,000. In either event, we may not have the ability to pay the required penalty and Schreiber may use its contractual rights in order to collect and may cease production and shipment of our products. Such an action would have a material adverse affect on the liquidity and financial condition of our Company and it is unlikely that we would be able to continue as a going concern. A private investor owns a large percentage of the outstanding shares, which could materially limit the ownership rights of investors. As of May 31, 2007, Frederick DeLuca, a private investor, owned approximately 23% of our outstanding common stock and held warrants and a convertible note which, if exercised with accrued and unpaid interest on the convertible note as of such date and assuming the exercise of no other outstanding options or warrants, would give him ownership of approximately 49% of our outstanding common stock. Investors who purchase common stock in our Company may be unable to elect any specific members of the board of directors or exercise significant control over us or our business as a result of Mr. Deluca’s ownership. Additionally, Mr. DeLuca may be able to exercise significant influence over our policies and Board composition. Stockholders may experience further dilution. We have a substantial number of outstanding options and warrants and a convertible note to acquire shares of common stock. As of May 31, 2007, we have a total of 15,841,621 shares reserved for future issuance upon exercise of options or warrants and conversion of the convertible note. Of this total, 9,250,821 are exercisable securities that are “in the money.” “In the money” generally means that the current market price of the common stock is above the exercise price of the shares subject to the option, warrant or note conversion. The issuance of common stock upon the exercise of these options and warrants or note conversion could adversely affect the market price of the common stock or result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. In addition, any future securities issuances by our Company could result in the issuance, or potential issuance, of a significant amount of equity securities that will cause substantial dilution to our stockholders, particularly given the current low trading price of our common stock. Trading on the OTC Bulletin Board may make it more difficult for investors to sell shares, may potentially lead to future market declines and may increase our costs related to registration statements. Since May 8, 2006, our common stock has been traded in the Nasdaq over-the-counter market on what is commonly referred to as the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, an investor could find it more difficult to dispose of or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our securities. Listing on the OTC Bulletin Board may make trading our shares more difficult for investors, potentially leading to further declines in our share price and may cause difficulty in obtaining future financing. Additionally, we are not eligible to use short form registration statements with the respect to the sale of our securities. This could substantially increase our costs of registering securities in the future and make it more expensive and difficult to maintain the effectiveness of certain currently effective registration statements involving selling stockholders of our Company. Although most of these stockholders would be eligible to sell their shares over the public markets pursuant to Rule 144, in the event we are not able to timely maintain the effectiveness of such registration statements, we may be held liable for damages suffered by such selling stockholders. 10 Our common stock may become subject to certain “Penny Stock” rules which may make it a less attractive investment. Since the trading price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock would be subject to the requirements of Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act if our net tangible assets fall below $2 million. Under Rule 15g-9, brokers who recommend penny stocks to persons who are not established customers and accredited investors, as defined in the Exchange Act, must satisfy special sales practice requirements, including requirements that make and individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written consent prior to the transaction. The Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 also requires additional disclosures in connection with any trades involving penny stock, including the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with that market. Such requirements may severely limit the market liquidity of our common stock and the ability of investors in our equity securities to sell their securities in the secondary market. For all of these reasons, an investment in our equity securities may not be attractive to our potential investors. We may not be able to implement Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act on a timely basis. The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), as directed by Section 404 of The Sarbanes Oxley Act, adopted rules generally requiring each public company to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. This requirement will first apply to our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2008. In addition, the company’s independent registered accounting firm must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. This requirement will first apply to our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2009. We have not yet completed a Section 404 implementation plan. In the past, we have discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. We have engaged an outside consultant and will be incurring incremental costs in order to complete the work required by Section 404. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to complete a Section 404 plan on a timely basis. Additionally, upon completion of a Section 404 plan, we may not be able to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or in the event that we conclude that our internal controls are effective, our independent accountants may disagree with our assessment and may issue a report that is qualified. This could subject our Company to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could negatively affect our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. We are subject to borrowing restrictions under our primary credit facility. On June 23, 2006, we entered into a Receivables Purchase Agreement with Systran Financial Services Corporation, a subsidiary of Textron Financial Corporation (“Systran”), whereby Systran provides financing to our Company through advances against certain trade receivable invoices due to our Company (the “Systran Agreement”). The Systran Agreement is secured by our accounts receivable and all other assets. Generally, subject to a maximum principal amount of $3,500,000 which can be borrowed under the Systran Agreement, the amount available for borrowing is equal to 85% of our eligible accounts receivable invoices less a dilution reserve and any required fixed dollar reserves, which Systran may increase or decrease at its sole discretion. The dilution and fixed dollar reserves are currently set at 7% and $100,000, respectively. Advances under the Systran Agreement bear interest at a variable rate equal to the prime rate plus 1.5% per annum (9.75% on May 31, 2007). 11 The initial term of the Systran Agreement ends on June 23, 2009 and may renew automatically for consecutive twelve-month terms unless terminated sooner. The Systran Agreement may be accelerated in the event of certain defaults by our Company including among other things, a default in our payment and/or performance of any obligation to Systran or any other financial institution, creditor, or bank; and any change in the conditions, financial or otherwise, of our Company which reasonably causes Systran to deem itself insecure. In such an event, interest on our borrowings would accrue at the greater of twelve percent per annum or the variable rate of prime plus 1.5% and we would be liable for an early termination premium ranging from 1% to 3% of the maximum principal amount available under the Systran Agreement. There is no guarantee that Systran will maintain or lower the current reserves on our borrowing availability. Additionally, we may experience future credit tightening by Systran by virtue of reserves they may require, receivables they may deem ineligible or other rights they have under the Systran Agreement. Such restrictions would adversely affect our cash flows. We lack an operating history as a branded marketing company and we may not be successful. There can be no assurance that we will be successful as a branded marketing company. While we have marketed our products ourselves in the past, we lack an operating history as solely a branded marketing company for investors to evaluate our business and prospects. We have limited meaningful historical financial data upon which to plan future operating expenses. Accordingly, we face risks and uncertainties relating to our ability to successfully implement our strategy. Investors must consider the risks, expenses, difficulties and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in their early stage of transition. Failure to accurately forecast our revenues and future operating expenses could cause quarterly fluctuations in our operating results, including cash flows, and may result in further volatility of or a decline in our stock price. We may issue securities with rights superior to those of our common stock, which could materially limit the ownership rights of existing stockholders. We may offer debt or equity securities in private and/or public offerings in order to raise working capital and to refinance our debt. The board of directors has the right to determine the terms and rights of any debt securities and preferred stock without obtaining further approval of the stockholders. It is likely that any debt securities or preferred stock that we sell would have terms and rights superior to those of our common stock and may be convertible into common stock. Any sale of securities could adversely affect the interests or voting rights and result in substantial dilution to the existing holders of our common stock. Additionally, a sale of securities could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Rising interest rates could negatively affect our results of operations. The interest rate on our credit facility with Systran fluctuates based upon changes in the prime rate. Increases in the prime rate will result in an increase in our cost of funds, and would negatively affect our results of operations. We have not entered into any derivative instruments such as interest rate swap or hedge agreements to manage our exposure to rising interest rates. Competition in our industry is intense. Competition in the natural food segment of the food industry is intense. We believe that as consumers become more interested in healthy food alternatives, the competition in our markets will increase substantially. Therefore, the effectiveness of our marketing, advertising and promotional programs and the financial resources necessary for their implementation is an important part of our sales growth plan. In the retail cheese market, we compete with large national and regional manufacturers of conventional, organic, and imitation cheese products. Competitors such as Kraft, Borden’s and ConAgra, among others are well established and have significantly more brand name recognition, marketing personnel, and cash resources at their disposal. Within the retail cheese alternative niche market, there are a number of additional competitors such as Soya Kaas, Lisanatti, Follow Your Heart, Toffuti, and Melissa’s. Like our product lines, these competitors offer dairy and cheese alternatives to grocery and natural foods stores. In addition, their offerings are similar to ours in that they have comparable perceived benefits and are distributed or positioned in the same retail shelf space as our products. 12 In the food service markets, our substitute and imitation cheese products compete with other numerous substitute and imitation cheese products, as well as with conventional cheeses. While we believe that we are superior to the competition in our cheese alternative niche market and that the breadth and depth of our product lines make it difficult for our smaller competitors to have a significant impact on our market leading share in the cheese alternative category, our competitors may succeed in developing new or enhanced products, which are better than our products. These companies may also prove to be more successful than us in marketing and selling these products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with any of these companies or achieve a greater market share than we currently possess. Increased competition as to any of our products or services could result in price reductions, reduced margins, and loss of market share, which could negatively affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Consumer eating habits and shopping trends may change and negatively impact demand for our products. There could be a decrease in demand for our products as consumers’ tastes, preferences, shopping behavior, and overall evaluation of health benefits change over time. Historically, this was demonstrated in the change in consumer eating habits with the publicly recognized trend toward low-carbohydrate diets, which led to decreased consumption of items such as bread and our complementary product of cheese alternative slices. Additionally, the number of consumers shopping in the retail grocery and natural foods stores continues to shift with the national expansion of Wal-Mart superstores and other similar superstores which include extensive grocery operations. With the growth in the aging population of U.S. consumers, there could be price pressure on our products due to the fixed income nature of this population segment. Demand for our products could be hindered due to changing conditions within the distribution channels through which we sell our products. Our sales could suffer based upon market place abnormalities such as retailer, distributor, and/or food service operator labor strikes. Further, consolidation within the industry could result in store closings, store layouts, and operating strategies that are incompatible with our product requirements. We rely on the protection of our trademarks, and the loss of a trademark would negatively impact the products associated with the trademark. We own several registered and unregistered trademarks, which are used in the marketing and sale of our products. We have invested a substantial amount of money in promoting our trademarked brands. However, the degree of protection that these trademarks afford us is unknown. Further, we may not have the money necessary to engage in actions to prevent infringement on our trademarks. A loss of a material trademark would negatively impact the products associated with it, and could negatively affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows related to this particular trademark. However, we do not believe that a prohibition from using one or more of our trademarks, would have a material adverse affect on our continued operations as a whole. We do not have patent protection for our formulas and processes, and a loss of ownership of any of our formulas and processes would negatively impact our business. We believe that we own our formulas and processes. However, we have not sought, and do not intend to seek, patent protection for our formulas and processes. Instead, we rely on the complexity of our formulas and processes, trade secrecy laws, and employee and inter-company confidentiality agreements. However, we cannot assure you that other companies will not acquire our confidential information or trade secrets or will not independently develop equivalent or superior products or technology and obtain patent or similar rights. Although we believe that our formulas and processes have been independently developed and do not infringe upon the patents or rights of others, a variety of components of our processes could infringe upon existing or future patents, in which event we may be required to modify our processes or obtain a license. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in a timely manner or upon acceptable terms and conditions. The failure to do either of the foregoing would negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 13 Because we sell food products, we face the risk of exposure to product liability claims. We, like any other seller of food products, face the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that our manufacturers’ quality control procedures fail and the consumption of our products causes injury or illness. In July 2006, we initiated a voluntary product recall on one of our Vegan products after we discovered that the product produced by a sub-manufacturer may contain traces of undeclared milk ingredients. The recall was limited to our Vegan Parmesan Flavor Soy Topping with expiration codes between April 2007 and May 2007. Total recall costs amounted to approximately $60,000, all of which was reimbursed by our manufacturer. With respect to product liability claims, our insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost, or, if available, may not be adequate to cover liabilities. We generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying us products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party, and their carriers, if any, as well as the limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. If we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability claims relating to defective products could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 