Item 1A. Risk Factors The Corporations Portfolio Investments are Illiquid Most of the investments of the Corporation are or will be either equity securities acquired directly from small companies or below investment grade subordinated debt securities. The Corporation’s portfolio of equity securities is, and will usually be, subject to restrictions on resale or otherwise have no established trading market. The illiquidity of most of the Corporation’s portfolio may adversely affect the ability of the Corporation to dispose of such securities at times when it may be advantageous for the Corporation to liquidate such investments. Investing in Private Companies involves a High Degree of Risk The Corporation typically invests a substantial portion of its assets in small and medium sized private companies. These private businesses may be thinly capitalized, unproven companies with risky technologies and may lack management depth and have not attained profitability. Because of the speculative nature and the lack of a public market for these investments, there is significantly greater risk of loss than is the case with traditional investment securities. The Corporation expects that some of its venture capital investments will be a complete loss or will be unprofitable and that some will appear to be likely to become successful but never realize their potential. The Corporation has been risk seeking rather than risk averse in its approach to venture capital and other investments. Neither the Corporation’s investments nor an investment in the Corporation is intended to constitute a balanced investment program. Even if the Corporation’s portfolio companies are able to develop commercially viable products, the market for new products and services is highly competitive and rapidly changing. Commercial success is difficult to predict and the marketing efforts of the portfolio companies may not be successful. 4 Table of Contents The Corporation is Subject to Risks Created by the Valuation of its Portfolio Investments There is typically no public market for equity securities of the small privately held companies in which the Corporation invests. As a result, the valuations of the equity securities in the Corporation’s portfolio are stated at fair value as determined by the good faith estimate of the Corporation’s Board of Directors in accordance with the established SBA valuation policy. In the absence of a readily ascertainable market value, the estimated value of the Corporation’s portfolio of securities may differ significantly, favorably or unfavorably, from the values that would be placed on the portfolio if a ready market for the equity securities existed. Any changes in estimated net asset value are recorded in the statement of operations as “Net (increase) decrease in unrealized depreciation.” Investing in the Corporation’s Shares May be Inappropriate for the Investor’s Risk Tolerance The Corporation’s investments, in accordance with its investment objective and principal strategies, result in a greater than average amount of risk and volatility and may well result in loss of principal. Its investments in portfolio companies are highly speculative and aggressive and, therefore, an investment in its shares may not be suitable for investors for whom such risk is inappropriate. The Corporation is Subject to Risks Created by its Regulated Environment The Corporation is regulated by the SBA and the SEC. Changes in the laws or regulations that govern SBICs and BDCs could significantly affect the Corporation’s business. Regulations and laws may be changed periodically, and the interpretations of the relevant regulations and laws are also subject to change. Any change in the regulations and laws governing the Corporations business could have a material impact on its financial condition or its results of operations. The Corporation is Subject to Risks Created by Borrowing Funds from the SBA The Corporation’s Leverageable Capital may include large amounts of debt securities issued through the SBA, and all of the debentures will have fixed interest rates. Until and unless the Corporation is able to invest substantially all of the proceeds from debentures at annualized interest or other rates of return that substantially exceed annualized interest rates that Rand SBIC must pay the SBA, the Corporation’s operating results may be adversely affected which may, in turn, depress the market price of the Corporation’s common stock. The Economic Environment May Change The value of the Corporation’s common stock may decline and may be affected by numerous market conditions, which could result in the loss of some or the entire amount invested in its shares. The securities markets frequently experience extreme price and volume fluctuations which affect market prices for securities of companies generally, and technology and very small capitalization companies in particular. General economic conditions, and general conditions in the Internet and information technology, life sciences, material sciences and other high technology industries, will also affect the stock price. The Corporation is Dependent Upon Key Management Personnel for Future Success The Corporation is dependent for the selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of its investments on the diligence and skill of its two senior officers, Allen F. Grum and Daniel P. Penberthy. The future success of the Corporation depends to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of its senior management team. The departure of either of its executive officers could materially adversely affect its ability to implement its business strategy. The Corporation does not maintain key man life insurance on any of its officers or employees. 5 Table of Contents The Corporation Operates in a Competitive Market for Investment Opportunities The Corporation faces competition in its investing activities from many entities including other SBIC’s, private venture capital funds, investment affiliates of large companies, wealthy individuals and other domestic or foreign investors. The competition is not limited to entities that operate in the same geographical area as the Corporation. As a regulated BDC, the Corporation is required to disclose quarterly and annually the name and business description of portfolio companies and the value of its portfolio securities. Most of its competitors are not subject to this disclosure requirement. The Corporation’s obligation to disclose this information could hinder its ability to invest in certain portfolio companies. Additionally, other regulations, current and future, may make the Corporation less attractive as a potential investor to a given portfolio company than a private venture capital fund. Fluctuations of Quarterly Results The Corporation’s quarterly operating results could fluctuate as a result of a number of factors. These factors include, among others, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which portfolio companies encounter competition in their markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any one quarter should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future quarters. 