Item 1A. Risk Factors The Corporation is Subject to Risks Created by the Valuation of its Portfolio Investments At December 31, 2013, 96% of the Corporation’s portfolio investments are private securities and are not publicly traded. There is typically no public market for securities of the small privately held companies in which the Corporation invests. Investments are valued in accordance with the Corporation’s established valuation policy and are stated at fair value as determined in good faith by the management of the Corporation and submitted to the Board of Directors for approval. In the absence of a readily ascertainable market value, the estimated value of the Corporation’s portfolio of securities may differ significantly, favorably or unfavorably, from the values that would be placed on the portfolio if a ready market for the securities existed. Any changes in estimated value are recorded in the consolidated statement of operations as “Net increase (decrease) in unrealized appreciation.” The Corporation’s Portfolio Investments are Illiquid Most of the investments of the Corporation are or will be either equity securities or subordinated debt securities acquired directly from small companies. The Corporation’s portfolio of equity and debt securities is, 3 Table of Contents and will usually be, subject to restrictions on resale and has no established trading market. The illiquidity of most of the Corporation’s portfolio may adversely affect the ability of the Corporation to dispose of the securities at times when it may be advantageous for the Corporation to liquidate investments. Investing in Private Companies involves a High Degree of Risk The Corporation typically invests a substantial portion of its assets in small and medium sized private companies. These private businesses may be thinly capitalized, unproven companies with risky technologies, may lack management depth, and may not have attained profitability. Because of the speculative nature and the lack of a public market for these investments, there is significantly greater risk of loss than is the case with securities traded on a public exchange. The Corporation expects that some of its venture capital investments will become worthless and that some will appear likely to become successful but will never realize their potential. The Corporation has been risk seeking rather than risk averse in its approach to venture capital and other investments. Even if the Corporation’s portfolio companies are able to develop commercially viable products, the market for new products and services is highly competitive and rapidly changing. Commercial success is difficult to predict and the marketing efforts of the portfolio companies may not be successful. Investing in the Corporation’s Shares May be Inappropriate for the Investor’s Risk Tolerance The Corporation’s investments, in accordance with its investment objective and principal strategies, result in a greater than average amount of risk and volatility and may result in loss of principal. Its investments in portfolio companies are highly speculative and aggressive and, therefore, an investment in its shares may not be suitable for investors for whom such risk is inappropriate. Neither the Corporation’s investments nor an investment in the Corporation constitutes a balanced investment program. The Corporation is Subject to Risks Created by its Regulated Environment The Corporation is regulated by the SBA and the SEC. Changes in the laws or regulations that govern SBICs and BDCs could significantly affect the Corporation’s business. Regulations and laws may be changed periodically, and the interpretations of the relevant regulations and laws are also subject to change. Any change in the regulations and laws governing the Corporation’s business could have a material impact on its financial condition or its results of operations. Moreover, the laws and regulations that govern BDCs and SBICs may place conflicting demands on the manner in which the Corporation operates, and the resolution of those conflicts may restrict or otherwise adversely affect the operations of the Corporation. The Corporation is Subject to Risks Created by Borrowing Funds from the SBA The Corporation’s liabilities may include large amounts of debt securities issued through the SBA which have fixed interest rates. Until and unless the Corporation is able to invest substantially all of the proceeds from debentures at annualized interest or other rates of return that substantially exceed annualized interest rates that Rand SBIC must pay the SBA, the Corporation’s operating results may be adversely affected which may, in turn, depress the market price of the Corporation’s common stock. The Corporation Operates in a Competitive Market for Investment Opportunities The Corporation faces competition in its investing activities from many entities including other SBICs, private venture capital funds, investment affiliates of large companies, wealthy individuals and other domestic or foreign investors. The competition is not limited to entities that operate in the same geographical area as the Corporation. As a regulated BDC, the Corporation is required to disclose quarterly and annually the name and business description of portfolio companies and the value of its portfolio securities. Most of its competitors are not subject to this disclosure requirement. The Corporation’s obligation to disclose this information could hinder its ability to invest in certain portfolio companies. Additionally, other regulations, current and future, may make the Corporation less attractive as a potential investor to a given portfolio company than a private venture capital fund. 4 Table of Contents The Corporation is Dependent Upon Key Management Personnel for Future Success The Corporation is dependent on the skill, diligence, and the network of business contacts of its two senior officers, Allen F. Grum and Daniel P. Penberthy, for the selection, structuring, closing, monitoring and valuation of its investments. The future success of the Corporation depends to a significant extent on the continued employment of its senior management. The departure of either of its senior officers could materially adversely affect its ability to implement its business strategy. The Corporation does not maintain key man life insurance on any of its officers or employees. The Corporation’s Portfolio Has a Limited Number of Companies, and May be Subjected to Greater Risk if Any of These Companies Default The Corporation’s portfolio investment values are concentrated in a small number of companies and as such, it may experience a significant loss in Net Asset Value if one or more of these companies perform poorly or go out of business. The unrealized or realized write down of any one of these companies would negatively impact the Corporation’s Net Asset Value. Fluctuations of Quarterly Results The Corporation’s quarterly operating results could fluctuate significantly as a result of a number of factors. These factors include, among others, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which portfolio companies encounter competition in their markets, and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any quarter cannot be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future quarters. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 