Risk Factors" and elsewhere in, or incorporated by reference into, this Form 10-K. We are not required and undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements for any reason, even if new information becomes available or other events occur in the future. ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Galaxy Nutritional Foods, Inc. develops and globally markets plant-based cheese and dairy alternatives, as well as processed organic cheese and cheese food to grocery and natural foods retailers, mass merchandisers and food service accounts. Our overall strategy is to enhance the value of the Galaxy Nutritional Foods' brands by developing nutritious products that meet the taste and dietary needs of today's increasingly health conscious consumers. In this report, the terms "Company," "we," "us," or "our" means Galaxy Nutritional Foods, Inc. Veggie, the leading brand in the cheese alternative category of the grocery channel and our top selling product group, is primarily merchandised in the produce section and provides calcium and protein without cholesterol, saturated fat or trans fat. In the natural foods channel, our brands include: Rice, Veggy, Vegan, and Wholesome Valley, which are primarily merchandised in the cheese alternative or dairy sections. We also have Galaxy imitation and private label products including processed slices and shreds. These products are primarily sold in the grocery, mass markets and food service channels. 3 We sell our products through leading grocery store chains including Publix, Kroger, Safeway, Albertson's, Wakefern, H.E. Butt and natural food stores including Whole Foods, Wild Oats and several independents. We seek to build core brand recognition and a broader consumer base through marketing, including product sampling and advertising programs to educate consumers on the benefits of healthier eating. Our strategy for the future is to continue our marketing efforts primarily in the retail market to capitalize on the continuing interest among consumers in eating foods low in cholesterol, saturated fat and trans fat. We believe that one of the leading contributors of cholesterol and saturated fat in the American diet is conventional cheese. By providing good tasting cheese alternatives in convenient forms and flavors, we believe that we will be able to attract an increasing number of consumers interested in improving their diet and eating habits. Our Company was founded by Angelo S. Morini in 1972 under the original name of Fiesta Foods & Galaxy Foods in New Castle, Pennsylvania. In 1980, the name was changed to Galaxy Cheese Company and subsequently reincorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1987. In June 1991, we moved from New Castle, Pennsylvania to Orlando, Florida and in November 2000 became Galaxy Nutritional Foods, Inc. to more clearly define our position in the food category. Change in Operations During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, we determined that our manufacturing capacity was significantly in excess of our requirements and that it would be advantageous to outsource manufacturing and distribution operations. On June 30, 2005, Galaxy Nutritional Foods, Inc. and Schreiber Foods, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation ("Schreiber"), entered into a Supply Agreement, whereby we agreed that Schreiber would become our sole source of supply for substantially all of our products. Schreiber is a privately held cheese manufacturing company whose primary business is contract manufacturing cheese, cheese alternative and other dairy products for many well-known companies and brands. In November 2005, Schreiber began to deliver such products directly to our customers. The prices for such products are based on cost plus a processing fee as determined by the parties from time to time. Other material terms of the Supply Agreement are as follows: o The initial term of the Supply Agreement is for a period of five years from the effective date of September 1, 2005 and is renewable at our option for up to two additional five-year periods (for a total term of up to fifteen years). If we do not exercise our first option to extend the term, then we will be obligated to pay Schreiber $1,500,000. If we exercise our first option to extend the term, but do not exercise our second option to extend the term, then we will be obligated to pay Schreiber $750,000. o The Supply Agreement provides for a contingent short-fall payment obligation by our Company if a specified production level is not met during the one-year period from September 1, 2006 to August 31, 2007. If a contingent short-fall payment is accrued after such one-year period, it may be reduced by the amount by which production levels in the one-year period from September 1, 2007 to August 31, 2008 exceeds the specified target level of production, if any. o Schreiber is required to deliver products to our Company or our customers that are in compliance with our standards and specifications and all applicable laws. Schreiber will deliver all products within 10 business days of the effective date of such order, which is one business day after receipt of the order. 4 o We may not manufacture any products governed by the Supply Agreement during the term of the Supply Agreement. o Schreiber may not manufacture our products or use any of our intellectual property other than pursuant to the terms of the Supply Agreement. In November 2005, we sold all of our usable raw material inventory to Schreiber at our cost and transferred our finished goods inventory to Schreiber's facility. Our inventory balance as of March 31, 2006 consists primarily of certain stock levels of inventory we maintain at a public storage facility in Canada in order to distribute to our Canadian customers quickly and efficiently. On June 30, 2005, we also entered into a definitive agreement (the "Asset Purchase Agreement") for the sale of substantially all of our manufacturing and production equipment to Schreiber for $8,700,000 in cash and on December 8, 2005, we completed this sale. This sale was approved by our stockholders at a Special Meeting held on December 5, 2005. The $8,700,000 in proceeds was primarily used to pay accrued tangible personal property taxes and to terminate certain debt obligations on the assets that were sold. As a result of the above agreements, our Company eliminated its manufacturing and distribution operations and is now a branded marketing company that will continue to develop, market and sell our products. Additionally, we have eliminated the need to carry large amounts of inventory in order to manufacture our products prior to distribution to our customers. With the exception of inventory for samples and certain Canadian customers, we do not take possession of our inventory prior to its shipment from Schreiber to our customers. Development Of Business While most companies place their dairy products in the supermarket dairy section, we adopted a sales and marketing strategy whereby Veggie products are merchandised in the produce section. In this section, Veggie brand products are sold next to other natural and organic items. The natural channel business began with soy-based cheese alternatives under the brand names Soyco and Soymage, now Veggy and Vegan respectively. To further develop the natural channel business, in fiscal 1996, we introduced a soy free rice-based line to meet the needs of consumers with soy allergies. In recent years, all three natural channel brands were repositioned under the Galaxy Nutritional Foods umbrella brand. The natural brands, previously sold only to natural foods retailers, are now distributed in the grocery channel with the introduction of natural foods sections in most supermarkets. In response to the growth in the organic food category, in fiscal 1997, we introduced the Wholesome Valley Organic brand in the natural channel, followed shortly by the grocery channel. Historically, our foodservice business primarily consisted of imitation cheese products. The foodservice business has since been expanded to include branded cheese alternatives similar to the retail products. Principal Products Produced We market a variety of cheese and dairy alternatives as well as processed organic cheese and cheese food to grocery and natural foods retailers, mass merchandisers and food service accounts under the brands Veggie, Veggy, Rice, Vegan, Wholesome Valley Organic, and Galaxy. Each brand's corresponding nutritional benefits are noted below: Veggie Brand - Leading Cheese Alternative in Grocery - Our flagship brand, sold in the produce section of supermarkets, is produced in a variety of forms including slices, shreds, spreads and more. Veggie cheese alternatives are an excellent source of calcium without cholesterol, saturated or trans fat. Future Veggie brand line extensions include Galaxy Super Stix, a convenient individually wrapped mozzarella flavored stick, which provides calcium and protein without trans fat, saturated fat or cholesterol. 5 Veggy Brand - Soy-based Cheese Alternatives - Similar to our grocery brand, Veggie, and without preservatives, Veggy branded products are an excellent source of calcium without cholesterol, saturated or trans fat. This soy-based alternative is primarily sold in natural food stores and is available in a wide variety of individually wrapped slices and a grated topping. Rice Brand - Soy Free Cheese Alternatives - Our Rice products, sold primarily in natural food stores, are a leading soy free cheese alternative without cholesterol or trans fat. Also, preservative and gluten free, this brand is available in a wide variety of flavors in slices, shreds, blocks, grated topping, sour cream, cream cheese and butter alternatives. Recent fiscal 2006 line extensions include Rice Vegan slices, the first soy and casein free cheese alternative. Vegan Brand - Casein Free Dairy Alternatives - Our Vegan brand products are sold primarily in the natural food stores in individually wrapped slices, blocks, sour cream style topping, cream cheese style spread, and a grated topping. Vegan brand products are soy-based, casein (a dried skim milk protein), preservative and gluten free. Wholesome Valley Organic Brand - Organic Cheese Products - Our Wholesome Valley Organic brand is a cheese product made without the use of antibiotic growth hormones or dangerous pesticides and chemicals and is available in slices, shreds, and block varieties in both natural food and grocery stores. Galaxy Brand Products - Imitation and Processed Cheese Alternative Products - Our Galaxy brand includes value priced processed cheese products sold primarily in the supermarket dairy section. Galaxy brand products are cholesterol and trans fat free and are available in various flavors in the form of sandwich slices and shreds. Our only branded product line, which accounts for more than 10% of our gross sales for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, is the Veggie line of products. This line of products contributed approximately 53%, 46% and 60% of gross sales for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our non-branded imitation, private label and sandwich slice business contributed approximately 31%, 35% and 22% of gross sales for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Principal Markets Our products are sold primarily in two commercial markets: retail and food service. In the retail market, we sell our products to national and regional supermarket chains, mass merchandisers and natural foods or to distributors that sell and deliver to these retail establishments. These sales are facilitated through our in-house sales managers and a nationwide network of non-exclusive commissioned brokers. We believe our products appeal to a wide range of consumers seeking lower fat, lower cholesterol, and no lactose products. In the retail market, where we believe taste and nutrition generally outweigh price considerations, we market our Veggie and Galaxy natural branded products at prices generally comparable to or higher than the prices of conventional cheeses. In the food service market, we sell directly to food distributors and other customers in the food service market through our in-house sales managers and a nationwide network of non-exclusive commissioned brokers. In this market we offer more expensive premium products such as our Veggie line to customers who place importance on taste and nutrition and our less expensive Galaxy branded products to customers whose primary consideration is cost. The food service products are primarily sold to distributors who supply food to restaurants, cafeterias, hospitals, correctional institutions, and schools. We also market our products directly to franchisees of large national restaurant chains. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, our gross sales were $41,492,717, $48,421,384 and $40,041,371, respectively. The following chart sets forth the percentage of gross sales that the retail and food service markets represented for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004: 6 Percentage of Gross Sales Fiscal Years Ended March 31, Category 2006 2005 2004 - ----------------------------------------------------- Retail sales 85% 85% 87% Food service sales 15% 15% 13% Methods of Distribution Pursuant to the Supply Agreement with Schreiber, beginning in November 2005, our products are primarily distributed from Schreiber's distribution centers in Green Bay, Wisconsin; Carthage, Missouri; and Logan, Utah. In order to distribute to our Canadian customers quickly and efficiently, we store and distribute products through a public storage facility in Canada. We maintain a certain stock level at this facility and pay the Canadian facility a processing fee for its services. Sources and Availability of Raw Materials Prior to November 2005, we purchased the ingredients used in our manufacturing operations, i.e., casein, vegetable proteins and oils, enzymes and other ingredients, from several sources, and we believe that all of these ingredients are readily available from numerous suppliers. Due to more cost effective conditions in other countries, suppliers from such countries are often able to supply casein, a dried skim milk protein, at prices lower than domestic suppliers. Accordingly, we purchased our major ingredient, casein, from foreign suppliers. Because our casein is imported, its availability is subject to a variety of factors, including strength of the United States Dollar, foreign production limitations and federal import regulations. Our increased costs for casein throughout the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005 had an adverse impact on our results of operations for such fiscal year. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we purchased approximately $6,242,977, $10,947,000, $6,134,000, respectively, of casein, the principal raw material used to manufacture substantially all of our products. The following table sets forth the name of each supplier along with the percentage they supplied of casein which either alone, or together with their affiliates, provided 10% or more casein to our Company, based on our dollar volume purchased: Percent of Casein Purchases Fiscal Years Ended March 31, Type of Raw Material Name of Supplier 2006 2005 2004 - ----------------------- ---------------------------------------- ----------- ----------- ------------ Casein Lactalis f/n/a Besnier-Scerma U.S.A. 34% 30% 20% Glanbia f/n/a Avonmore Food Products 26% 21% 29% Irish Dairy Board -- 15% 24% Bluegrass Dairy & Food, LLC 26% 12% -- Eurial Poitouraine/Euro Proteins 5% 4% 20% Since November 2005, pursuant to the Supply Agreement with Schreiber, we depend solely on Schreiber to obtain the necessary ingredients, manufacture and distribute all of our products to our customers. The prices for such products are based on cost plus a processing fee as determined by the parties from time to time. Purchases from Schreiber accounted for 38% of product purchases for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. 7 Working Capital Practices The majority of our customers are required to make payment on goods within 30 days of invoicing. Our credit department makes calls on payments that are 10 to 15 days past due and then places accounts on credit hold if they have not made arrangements for those payments that are 30 to 45 days past due. After all efforts have been exhausted to contact the customer and collect the past due balances, the credit manager will provide authorization to write off the past due balance. We typically average less than 1% of gross sales in credits related to bad debt. We provide a guarantee of sale to many of our retail customers in natural food stores, conventional grocery stores and the mass merchandising industry. If the product is not sold during its shelf life, we will allow a credit for the unsold merchandise. Since the shelf life of our products range from 6 months to one year, we historically average less than 2% of gross sales in credits for unsold product. Since November 2005, pursuant to the Supply Agreement with Schreiber, we depend solely on Schreiber to manufacture and distribute all of our products to our customers. We are required to pay Schreiber for our products within 20 days of shipment to our customers. As a result of the Supply Agreement, we have eliminated the need to carry large amounts of inventory in order to manufacture our products prior to distribution to our customers. With the exception of inventory for samples and certain Canadian customers, we do not take possession of our inventory prior to its shipment from Schreiber to our customers. Customers We sell to customers throughout the United States and 14 other countries. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, our gross sales were $41,492,717, $48,421,384 and $40,041,371, respectively. Gross sales derived from foreign countries were approximately $5,158,000, $4,896,000 and $4,297,000 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. These sales represent 12%, 10% and 11% of gross sales in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Gross sales are attributed to individual countries based on the customer's shipping address. We have no long-term assets located outside of the United States. The following table sets forth the percentage of foreign gross sales to each country, which accounted for 5% or more of our foreign gross sales for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004: Percentage of Gross Foreign Sales Fiscal Years Ended March 31, Country 2006 2005 2004 - ------------------------------------------------------- Canada 60.0% 47.9% 44.4% Puerto Rico 22.8% 33.4% 32.9% Israel * * 5.9% *Less than 5% of foreign gross sales for the stated fiscal year The following table sets forth the name of each customer, which either alone, or together with its affiliates, accounted for 5% or more of our gross sales for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004: Percentage of Gross Sales Fiscal Years Ended March 31, Customer Name 2006 2005 2004 - ------------------------------------------------------------------------- United Natural Foods 9.3% 9.4% 8.5% Distribution Plus Incorporated (DPI) 8.3% 7.4% 7.8% Publix 6.9% 5.9% 7.2% Wal-Mart 7.4% * * Del Sunshine LLC * 11.6% * Kroger * * 5.9% *Less than 5% of gross sales for the stated fiscal year. 8 During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005, we produced certain private label products for Del Sunshine who then sold the products to Wal-Mart. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we reserved nearly $1,760,000 in accounts receivable and inventory related to Del Sunshine LLC that we believed collection thereon was questionable. As of March 31, 2006, all amounts owed by Del have been written off as uncollectible. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, we began selling these products directly to Wal-Mart instead of through Del Sunshine. Competitive Conditions We operate in a highly competitive environment. In the retail cheese market, we compete with large national and regional manufacturers of conventional, organic, and imitation cheese products. Competitors such as Kraft, Borden's and ConAgra, among others are well established and have significantly more brand name recognition, marketing personnel, and cash resources at their disposal. Conventional "Lite" cheese generally has a lower fat content than regular cheese. But, unlike most of our products, it still contains cholesterol and lactose. Further, we believe that the perceived healthfulness, quality and excellent taste of our product lines provide a competitive advantage over many companies with more traditional products. Within the retail cheese alternative niche market, there are a number of additional competitors such as Tree of Life, Tofutti Brands, Inc., Yves (a subsidiary of Hain Celestial Group), Follow Your Heart, and Melissa's. Like our product lines, these competitors offer dairy and cheese alternatives to grocery and natural foods stores. In addition, their offerings are similar to ours in that they have comparable perceived benefits and are distributed or positioned in the same retail shelf space as our products. In the food service markets, our substitute and imitation cheese products compete with other numerous substitute and imitation cheese products, as well as with conventional cheeses. We believe that we are superior to the competition in our niche in the most important competitive factors, which are brand awareness, taste, perceived nutritional value, product appearance, product distribution, and overall consumer purchase interest. Finally, we believe that the breadth and depth of our product lines make it difficult for our smaller competitors to have a significant impact on our market leading share in the cheese alternative category. Trademarks And Other Intellectual Property We own several registered and unregistered trademarks, which are used in the marketing and sale of our products. Our material product trademarks are those mentioned above under Principal Products Produced. The registrations of these trademarks in the United States and foreign jurisdictions are effective for varying periods of time, and may be renewed periodically, provided that we, as the registered owner of the trademarks, comply with all pertinent renewal requirements. Trademarks include registered brand names, logos, symbols, or copyrights used to identify our products or services. As such, this prevents other manufacturers from using any words or symbols for which we hold the trademark. This is important as it helps provide competitive insulation around our products in the marketplace and enables consumers to identify with one particular brand or another. We will continue to market our trademarks in order to increase brand awareness for our products. Although our trademarks are valuable to our business, they are not, at this time, assets that are critical to our business. In the event that we would be prohibited from using one or more of our trademarks, we do not believe that this would have a material adverse affect on our continued operations. 9 Although we believe that our formulas and processes are proprietary and the key to our success, we have not sought and do not intend to seek patent protection for such technology. In not seeking patent protection, we are instead relying on the complexity of our technology, on trade secrecy laws, and on employee and inter-company confidentiality agreements. We believe that our technology has been independently developed and does not infringe on the patents or trade secrets of others. Governmental Regulation Our United States product labels are subject to regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"). Such regulation includes standards for product descriptions, nutritional claims, label format, minimum type sizes, content and location of nutritional information panels, nutritional comparisons, and ingredient content panels. Our labels, ingredients, and manufacturing techniques and facilities are subject to inspection by the FDA. Labeling regulations require specific details of ingredients and their components along with nutritional information on labels and also impose restrictions on product claims that can be included on labels. We have a team of individuals from our marketing, quality assurance, and research and development departments who review all new labels for compliance with our Company standards and current laws and regulations. We believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable governmental regulations regarding our current products and have obtained the necessary government permits, licenses, qualifications, and approvals, which are required for our operations. Environmental Regulation Prior to the outsourcing of our manufacturing and distribution operations in November 2005, our facility and manufacturing processes were subject to inspections by several agencies including the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services and our insurance providers. We were also required to comply with environmental regulations in connection with the development of our products and the operation of our business. We believe that we are in material compliance with the federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations applicable to our Company. We believe that continued compliance with any current or reasonably foreseeable future environmental laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on the capital expenditures, earnings, financial condition or competitive position of our Company. Employees As of July 13, 2006, we had a total of 30 full-time employees. We employ all personnel directly. We are an affirmative action employer providing equal employment opportunity to all applicants. We consider our relations with employees to be satisfactory. No employee is a member of a trade union. 10 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Information Statements other than historical information contained in this Form 10-K are considered "forward-looking statements" as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry, management's beliefs and certain assumptions made by our Company. Words such as "anticipate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "project," "estimate," "may," "will," "could," "should," "potential," or "continue" or the negative or variations of these words or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Although we believe that these forward-looking statements are reasonable at the time they are made, these statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially from our historical results and those expressed or forecasted in any forward-looking statement as a result of a variety of factors as set forth below. We are not required and undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements for any reason, even if new information becomes available or other events occur in the future. In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following are some of the factors as of July 13, 2006, that could cause our Company's actual results to differ materially from the expected results described in or underlying our Company's forward-looking statements. These factors should be considered carefully while evaluating our business and prospects. If any of the following risks actually occur, they could seriously harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are in default on certain related party unsecured notes payable. Pursuant to a Note and Warrant Purchase Agreement dated September 12, 2005, we received $1,200,000 as a loan from Mr. Frederick A. DeLuca, a greater than 10% shareholder. In October 2005, pursuant to several Note and Warrant Purchase Agreements dated September 28, 2005, we received a $600,000 loan from Conversion Capital Master, Ltd., a $485,200 loan from SRB Greenway Capital (Q.P.), L.P., a $69,600 loan from SRB Greenway Capital, L.P. and a $45,200 loan from SRB Greenway Offshore Operating Fund, L.P. The combined total of these loans is $2,400,000. The loans are evidenced by unsecured promissory notes (the "Notes") held by the above-referenced parties (the "Note Holders"). The Notes required monthly interest-only payments at 3% above the bank prime rate of interest per the Federal Reserve Bank (the "Prime Rate") and matured on June 15, 2006. We received a letter on June 20, 2006, from all of the Note Holders other than Mr. DeLuca, notifying the Company that its failure to pay the amounts due and owing on the maturity date constitutes a default under $1.2 million of the Notes held by those Note Holders. Pursuant to the terms of the Notes, since we did not cure the default within 10 days after receipt of the notice of default, we are obligated to pay interest at the default rate of 8% above the Prime Rate. We do not currently have the short-term liquidity to pay the Notes in accordance with their original terms and are negotiating with the Note Holders regarding extending the maturity of the Notes, refinancing the Notes and/or converting all or a portion of the Notes into equity. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our negotiations with the Note Holders or that the terms of any such refinancing or conversions will not result in the issuance, or potential issuance, of a significant amount of equity securities. In the event we are not successful, any collection actions by the Note Holders could have a material adverse affect on the liquidity and financial condition of the Company or our ability to secure additional financing. We may not be able continue as a going concern on a long-term basis. We have incurred substantial losses in recent years and, as a result, have a stockholders deficit of $3,682,660 as of March 31, 2006. Losses for the years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $24,148,553, $3,859,783 and $3,299,277, respectively. We received a report from our independent accountants relating to our audited financial statements as of March 31, 2006 containing a paragraph stating that because we are in default of our notes payable, have suffered recurring losses from operations and at March 31, 2006 have deficiencies in working capital and equity, there is substantive doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern depends upon successfully obtaining sufficient cash resources to refinance our $2.4 million of unsecured notes payable that matured on June 15, 2006 and obtaining positive cash flow from operations to sustain normal business operations. 11 Our current business plan eliminates certain low margin private label and Galaxy imitation business from our sales mix. The elimination of these low margin items and the elimination of excess overhead that was part of our former manufacturing operations should result in higher gross margins with lower operating costs in fiscal 2007 and produce positive cash flows from operations. However, the expected improvement in cash flows from operations will not be sufficient to repay the short-term notes without additional financing. Management is currently negotiating with the existing note holders and other parties regarding extending the maturity of the notes, refinancing the notes and/or converting all or a portion of the notes into equity. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our business plan, our negotiations with the Note Holders and other parties or that the terms of any such refinancing or conversions will not result in the issuance, or potential issuance, of a significant amount of equity securities that will cause substantial dilution to our stockholders. If we are not successful in refinancing the $2.4 million in short-term notes or in otherwise entering into a financing, sale, or business transaction that infuses sufficient cash resources into our Company in the near future, any collection actions by the Note Holders could have a material adverse affect on the liquidity and financial condition of the Company or our ability to secure additional financing and we may not be able to continue as a going concern. Foreclosure on our note receivable will result in a material affect to our reported earnings. In June 1999, in connection with an amended and restated employment agreement for Angelo S. Morini, our Founder, stockholder and a member of our Board of Directors, we consolidated two full-recourse notes receivable ($1,200,000 from November 1994 and $11,572,200 from October 1995) related to his purchase of 2,914,286 shares of our common stock into a single stockholder note receivable in the amount of $12,772,200 that was due on June 15, 2006. This stockholder note receivable is non-interest bearing and non-recourse and is secured by the 2,914,286 shares of our common stock (the "Shares"). For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, we reserved $10,120,200 against this stockholder note receivable under the assumption that we would not be able to collect proceeds in excess of the $2,652,000 value of the Shares as of such date. The value of the Shares was computed using the closing price of our common stock on March 31, 2006 of $0.91 multiplied by the 2,914,286 shares. On June 16, 2006, Mr. Morini failed to repay the non-recourse note obligation to our Company. On June 20, 2006, we delivered notice to Mr. Morini that we intended to exercise our rights to the Shares and retain all the Shares in full satisfaction of his obligations under the stockholder note receivable. On July 6, 2006, Mr. Morini consented to our acceptance of the Shares in full satisfaction of his obligations under the stockholder note receivable. As a result, we are in the process of canceling the Shares along with an additional 30,443 treasury shares. Our total number of issued and outstanding shares of common stock is now 17,109,894 shares. Based upon the $0.42 closing price of our common stock as quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board on June 16, 2006, the Shares have an approximate value of $1,224,000. Accordingly, we will recognize an additional expense of $1,428,000 in the first quarter of fiscal 2007 in order to record the additional decline in the value of the Shares from its $2,652,000 value as of March 31, 2006. Although this expense resulted in a material loss to our operations, it does not have any affect on the balance sheet since the stockholder note receivable was already shown as a reduction to Stockholders' Equity (Deficit). 12 We depend on one supplier to manufacture and distribute all of our products to our customers. Pursuant to a Supply Agreement dated June 30, 2005 between our Company and Schreiber Foods, Inc. ("Schreiber"), since November 2005, we depend solely on Schreiber to manufacture and distribute all of our products to our customers. We will rely solely on Schreiber to produce our products at prices that are competitive in the market, to maintain the quality of our products, and to supply our customers with the products they order on a timely basis. If Schreiber is unable to deliver its services according to the negotiated terms of the Supply Agreement for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition or over-commitment of its resources, we may lose customers and we may be required to purchase outsourcing services from another source at a higher price. Either of these occurrences will likely reduce our profits or result in a reduction in sales of our products. We may be required to pay substantial penalties under our Supply Agreement and may not have the ability to do so. The initial term of the Supply Agreement with Schreiber is for a period of five years from the effective date of September 1, 2005 and is renewable at our option for up to two additional five-year periods (for a total term of up to fifteen years). If we do not exercise our first option to extend the term, then we will be obligated to pay Schreiber $1,500,000. If we exercise our first option to extend the term, but do not exercise our second option to extend the term, then we will be obligated to pay Schreiber $750,000. Additionally, the Supply Agreement provides for a contingent short-fall payment obligation by our Company if a specified production level is not met during the one-year period from September 1, 2006 to August 31, 2007. If a contingent short-fall payment is accrued after such one-year period, it may be reduced by the amount by which production levels in the one-year period from September 1, 2007 to August 31, 2008 exceeds the specified target level of production, if any. The short-fall payment is based on formula that calculates the payment as follows: ((required pounds shipped - actual pounds shipped) / required pounds shipped) * $8,700,000. Thus, if we did not purchase any products from Schreiber during between September 1, 2006 and August 31, 2008, the payment could be as high as $8,700,000. In either event, we may not have the ability to pay the required penalty and Schreiber may use its contractual rights in order to collect and may cease production and shipment of our products. Such an action would have a material adverse affect on the liquidity and financial condition of the Company and it is unlikely that we would be able to continue as a going concern. Delisting of our common stock may make it more difficult for investors to sell shares, may potentially lead to future market declines and may increase our costs related to registration statements. On April 20, 2006, we received a letter from AMEX, notifying us that it intended to proceed with the filing of an application with the Securities and Exchange Commission to strike our common stock from listing and registration on the Exchange. We did not appeal this determination by AMEX and on May 5, 2006, AMEX suspended trading in our common stock and submitted an application to the Securities and Exchange Commission to strike our common stock from listing and registration on AMEX. Since May 8, 2006, our common stock is now traded in the over-the-counter market on what is commonly referred to as the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, an investor could find it more difficult to dispose of or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our securities. The delisting may make trading our shares more difficult for investors, potentially leading to further declines in our share price. Among other consequences, delisting from AMEX may cause difficulty in obtaining future financing. In addition, we are no longer eligible to use short form registration statements with the respect to the sale of our securities. This could substantially increase our costs of registering securities in the future and make it more expensive and difficult to maintain the effectiveness of certain currently effective registration statements involving selling stockholders of our Company. Although most of these stockholders would be eligible to sell their shares over the public markets pursuant to Rule 144, in the event we are not able to timely maintain the effectiveness of such registration statements, we may be held liable for damages suffered by such selling stockholders. 13 Our common stock may become subject to certain "Penny Stock" rules which may make it a less attractive investment. Since the trading price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock would be subject to the requirements of Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act if our net tangible assets fall below $2 million. Under Rule 15g-9, brokers who recommend penny stocks to persons who are not established customers and accredited investors, as defined in the Exchange Act, must satisfy special sales practice requirements, including requirements that make and individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written consent prior to the transaction. The Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 also requires additional disclosures in connection with any trades involving penny stock, including the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with that market. Such requirements may severely limit the market liquidity of our common stock and the ability of investors in our equity securities to sell their securities in the secondary market. For all of these reasons, an investment in our equity securities may not be attractive to our potential investors. As of September 30, 2005, we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and we might find other material weaknesses in the future which may adversely affect our ability to provide timely and reliable financial information and satisfy our reporting obligations under federal securities laws. As of September 30, 2005, we did not maintain effective controls over the completeness and accuracy relating to the accounting and disclosure for complex and non-standard stockholders' equity transactions. Specifically, we did not have effective controls over accounting for our Series A convertible preferred stock during the periods from April 2001 through October 2004 and other mark-to-market securities, including warrants and shares exercised through a note receivable, during the periods from March 2001 through June 2005. This control deficiency resulted in the restatement of our financial statements for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2005, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001, and the restatement of the quarterly data for the first quarter ended June 30, 2005. Our management therefore determined that this control deficiency constituted a "material weakness" in our internal control over financial reporting relating to the accounting and disclosure for complex and non-standard stockholders' equity transactions. To address our material weakness related to the accounting and disclosure for complex and non-standard stockholders' equity transactions, we have enhanced our internal control processes in order to be able to comprehensively review the accounting and disclosure implications of such transactions on a timely basis. As part of the enhancement, we have subscribed to additional outside research materials and will consult with additional outside consultants to confirm our understanding of complex transactions, as necessary. We might find other material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in future periods. To the extent that any significant or material weaknesses exist in our internal control over financial reporting, such weaknesses may adversely affect our ability to provide timely and reliable financial information necessary for the conduct of our business and satisfaction of our reporting obligations under federal securities laws. We may not be able to implement Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act on a timely basis. The Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), as directed by Section 404 of The Sarbanes Oxley Act, adopted rules generally requiring each public company to include a report of management on the company's internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company's internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, the company's independent registered accounting firm must attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of the company's internal controls over financial reporting. This requirement will first apply to our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2008. 14 We have not yet developed a Section 404 implementation plan. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. How companies should be implementing these new requirements including internal control reforms to comply with Section 404's requirements and how independent auditors will apply these requirements and test companies' internal controls, is still reasonably uncertain. We expect that we will need to hire and/or engage additional personnel and incur incremental costs in order to complete the work required by Section 404. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete a Section 404 plan on a timely basis. Our liquidity position in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2008 may also impact our ability to adequately fund our Section 404 efforts. Additionally, upon completion of a Section 404 plan, we may not be able to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or in the event that we conclude that our internal controls are effective, our independent accountants may disagree with our assessment and may issue a report that is qualified. This could subject our Company to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could negatively affect our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. We lack an operating history as a branded marketing company and we may not be successful. There can be no assurance that we will be successful as a branded marketing company. While we have marketed our products ourselves in the past, we lack an operating history as solely a branded marketing company for investors to evaluate our business and prospects. We have limited meaningful historical financial data upon which to plan future operating expenses. Accordingly, we face risks and uncertainties relating to our ability to successfully implement our strategy. Investors must consider the risks, expenses, difficulties and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in their early stage of transition. Failure to accurately forecast our revenues and future operating expenses could cause quarterly fluctuations in our operating results, including cash flows, and may result in further volatility of or a decline in our stock price. We are subject to borrowing restrictions under our primary credit facility. On June 23, 2006, we entered into a Receivables Purchase Agreement with Systran Financial Services Corporation, a subsidiary of Textron Financial Corporation ("Systran"), whereby Systran will provide financing to our Company through advances against certain trade receivable invoices due to our Company (the "Systran Advance"). The Systran Agreement is secured by our accounts receivable and all other assets. Generally, subject to a maximum principal amount of $3,500,000 which can be borrowed under the Systran Agreement, the amount available for borrowing is equal to 85% of our eligible accounts receivable invoices less a dilution reserve and any required fixed dollar reserves, which Systran may increase or decrease at its sole discretion. The dilution and fixed dollar reserves have been initially set at 7% and $100,000, respectively. Advances under the Systran Agreement bear interest at a variable rate equal to the prime rate plus 1.5% per annum (9.5% on June 23, 2006). The initial term of the Systran Agreement ends on June 23, 2009 and may renew automatically for consecutive twelve-month terms unless terminated sooner. The Systran Agreement may be accelerated in the event of certain defaults by our Company including among other things, a default in our payment and/or performance of any obligation to Systran or any other financial institution, creditor, or bank; and any change in the conditions, financial or otherwise, of our Company which reasonably causes Systran to deem itself insecure. In such an event, interest on our borrowings would accrue at the greater of twelve percent per annum or the variable rate of prime plus 1.5% and we would be liable for an early termination premium ranging from 1% to 3% of the maximum principal amount available under the Systran Agreement. There is no guarantee that Systran will maintain or lower the current reserves on our borrowing availability. Additionally, we may experience future credit tightening by Systran by virtue of reserves they may require, receivables they may deem ineligible or other rights they have under the Systran Agreement. Such restrictions would adversely affect our cash flows. 15 We may issue securities with rights superior to those of the common stock, which could materially limit the ownership rights of existing stockholders. We may offer debt or equity securities in private and/or public offerings in order to raise working capital and to refinance our debt. The board of directors has the right to determine the terms and rights of any debt securities and preferred stock without obtaining further approval of the stockholders. It is likely that any debt securities or preferred stock that we sell would have terms and rights superior to those of the common stock and may be convertible into common stock. Any sale of securities could adversely affect the interests or voting rights of the holders of common stock, result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders, or adversely affect the market price of our common stock. A private investor owns a large percentage of the outstanding shares, which could materially limit the ownership rights of investors. As of July 13, 2006, Frederick DeLuca, a private investor, owned approximately 23% of our issued and outstanding common stock and held warrants which, if exercised and assuming the exercise of no other outstanding options or warrants, would give him approximately 24% of our issued and outstanding common stock. Investors who purchase common stock in our Company may be unable to elect any specific members of the board of directors or exercise significant control over us or our business as a result of Mr. Deluca's ownership. Mr. DeLuca may be able to exercise significant influence over our policies and Board composition. Stockholders may experience further dilution. We have a substantial number of outstanding options and warrants to acquire shares of common stock. As of July 13, 2006, we have a total of 5,947,119 shares reserved for issuance upon exercise of options and warrants that we have granted or may grant in the future. Of this total, there are no exercisable options and warrants that are "in the money." "In the money" generally means that the current market price of the common stock is above the exercise price of the shares subject to the warrant or option. The issuance of common stock upon the exercise of these options and warrants could adversely affect the market price of the common stock or result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. In addition, any future securities issuances by our Company, including in connection with the refinancing of $2.4 million in past due notes, could result in the issuance, or potential issuance, of a significant amount of equity securities that will cause substantial dilution to our stockholders, particularly given the current low trading price of our common stock. The facility lease for our corporate headquarters is set to expire in November 2006 and we have not secured a new location. We entered into a lease agreement for the corporate headquarters with Anco Company, a Florida general partnership, on November 13, 1991. The lease expires in November 2006, unless renewed pursuant to terms mutually agreeable to the landlord and our Company. We are currently searching for new office space for our corporate headquarters. However, we can make no assurances that we will be able to find and move to a new location prior to November 2006 or that we will be able to renew our existing lease on terms acceptable to us. In the event that we are not successful, we may be subject to higher than normal lease rates or possible disruption of normal business operations. Rising interest rates could negatively affect our results of operations. The interest rates of most of our outstanding debts fluctuate based upon changes in the prime rate. Increases in the prime rate will result in an increase in our cost of funds, and would negatively affect our results of operations. We are anticipating future increases in interest rates during the fiscal year ending March 31, 2007. We have not entered into any derivative instruments such as interest rate swap or hedge agreements to manage our exposure to rising interest rates. 16 Competition in our industry is intense. Competition in the natural food segment of the food industry is intense. We believe that as consumers become more interested in healthy food alternatives the competition in our markets will increase substantially. Therefore, the effectiveness of our advertising, marketing and promotional programs and the financial resources necessary for their implementation is an important part of our sales growth plan. In the retail cheese market, we compete with large national and regional manufacturers of conventional, organic, and imitation cheese products. Competitors such as Kraft, Borden's and ConAgra, among others are well established and have significantly more brand name recognition, marketing personnel, and cash resources at their disposal. Within the retail cheese alternative niche market, there are a number of additional competitors such as Tree of Life, Tofutti Brands, Inc., Yves (a subsidiary of Hain Celestial Group), Follow Your Heart, and Melissa's. Like our product lines, these competitors offer dairy and cheese alternatives to grocery and natural foods stores. In addition, their offerings are similar to ours in that they have comparable perceived benefits and are distributed or positioned in the same retail shelf space as our products. In the food service markets, our substitute and imitation cheese products compete with other numerous substitute and imitation cheese products, as well as with conventional cheeses. While we believe that we are superior to the competition in our niche and that the breadth and depth of our product lines make it difficult for our smaller competitors to have a significant impact on our market leading share in the cheese alternative category, our competitors may succeed in developing new or enhanced products, which are better than our products. These companies may also prove to be more successful than us in marketing and selling these products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with any of these companies or achieve a greater market share than we currently possess. Increased competition as to any of our products or services could result in price reductions, reduced margins, and loss of market share, which could negatively affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Consumer eating habits and shopping trends may change and negatively impact demand for our products. There could be a decrease in demand for our products as consumers' tastes, preferences, shopping behavior, and overall evaluation of health benefits change over time. Historically, this was demonstrated in the change in consumer eating habits with the publicly recognized trend toward low-carbohydrate diets, which led to decreased consumption of items such as bread and our complementary product of cheese alternative slices. Additionally, the number of consumers shopping in the retail grocery and natural foods stores continues to shift with the national expansion of Wal-Mart superstores and other similar superstores which include extensive grocery operations. Additionally, with the growth in the aging population of U.S. consumers, there could be price pressure on our products due to the fixed income nature of this population segment. Demand for our products could be hindered due to changing conditions within the distribution channels through which we sell our products. Our sales could suffer based upon market place abnormalities such as retailer, distributor, and/or food service operator labor strikes. Further, consolidation within the industry could result in store closings, store layouts, and operating strategies that are incompatible with our product requirements. We rely on the protection of our trademarks, and the loss of a trademark would negatively impact the products associated with the trademark. We own several registered and unregistered trademarks, which are used in the marketing and sale of our products. We have invested a substantial amount of money in promoting our trademarked brands. However, the degree of protection that these trademarks afford us is unknown. Further, we may not have the money necessary to engage in actions to prevent infringement on our trademarks. A loss of a material trademark would negatively impact the products associated with it, and could negatively affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 17 We do not have patent protection for our formulas and processes, and a loss of ownership of any of our formulas and processes would negatively impact our business. We believe that we own our formulas and processes. However, we have not sought, and do not intend to seek, patent protection for our formulas and processes. Instead, we rely on the complexity of our formulas and processes, trade secrecy laws, and employee and inter-company confidentiality agreements. However, we cannot assure you that other companies will not acquire our confidential information or trade secrets or will not independently develop equivalent or superior products or technology and obtain patent or similar rights. Although we believe that our formulas and processes have been independently developed and do not infringe the patents or rights of others, a variety of components of our processes could infringe existing or future patents, in which event we may be required to modify our processes or obtain a license. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in a timely manner or upon acceptable terms and conditions. The failure to do either of the foregoing would negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Because we sell food products, we face the risk of exposure to product liability claims. We, like any other seller of food products, face the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that our manufacturer's quality control procedures fail and the consumption of our products causes injury or illness. With respect to product liability claims, our insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost, or, if available, may not be adequate to cover liabilities. We generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying us products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party, and their carriers, if any, as well as the limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. If we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability claims relating to defective products could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 