Item 1A. Risk Factors We face a variety of risks related to the operation of our business and the execution of our business strategy. WE FACE A VARIETY OF RISKS RELATED TO THE RAPID GROWTH OF OUR BUSINESS. WE MAY NOT SUCCESSFULLY EXECUTE OUR GROWTH STRATEGY. A principal component of our growth strategy is to acquire additional improved and unimproved real estate for the construction and development of new convenient access resorts and Varsity Clubs, which are urban vacation ownership properties strategically situated in tourist destinations that are accessible to major population centers near prominent colleges and universities. Our ability to execute our growth strategy will depend upon a number of factors, including the following: · the availability of attractive resort development opportunities; · our ability to acquire and/or construct properties for such development opportunities on economically feasible terms; · our ability to market and sell Vacation Ownership Interests at newly developed or acquired resorts; and · our ability to manage newly developed or acquired resorts in a manner that results in customer satisfaction. In particular, the success of our Premiere Vacation Club will depend upon our ability to continue to acquire and develop a sufficient number of participating resorts to make membership interests attractive to consumers. In addition, the success of our Varsity Clubs concept will be enhanced by our ability to successfully negotiate with universities proximate to our Varsity Clubs for access to the alumni, parents, and other persons affiliated with such universities. We cannot provide assurance that we will be successful with respect to any or all of these factors. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO FINANCE OUR GROWTH. We intend to selectively acquire and develop new vacation ownership resorts and may continue to expand our existing resorts. Our plans include the: development of approximately 22 acres of land in Sedona, adjacent to our Los Abrigados Resort, to be known as The Villages at Legacy Park (“Legacy Park”) and approximately 2.1 acres of land in Puerto Peñasco (“Rocky Point”), Mexico. Acquiring and developing new resorts, Legacy Park and Puerto Peñasco will place substantial demands on our liquidity and capital resources, as well as on our personnel and administrative capabilities. Risks associated with our development and construction activities include, but are not limited to, the following: · construction costs or delays may exceed original estimates, which could make the development or expansion uneconomical or unprofitable; · sales of Vacation Ownership Interests or other revenue from newly completed facilities may not be sufficient to make the resort or development profitable; · financing may not be available on terms favorable for development of a project, if at all; and · financing may not be available on terms favorable for the continued sales of Vacation Ownership Interests, if at all. We project that development of land in the planning stages (including Legacy Park), may cost in excess of $40 million. We cannot provide assurance that adequate financing for this or other future development projects will be available on terms and conditions favorable to our company, if at all. Our ability to obtain needed financing and to repay any indebtedness at maturity may depend on refinancing or future sales of debt or equity, which may not be available on terms favorable to our company, if at all. Factors that could affect our access to the capital markets, or the cost of such capital, include the following: · condition of the capital markets, · changes in interest rates, · general economic conditions, 6 · the threat of war or terrorist activities, · our voluntary filing of Chapter 11 under the United States Bankruptcy Code · the perception in the capital markets of the vacation ownership industry, our business, and our business prospects, · our results of operations, and · the amount of debt we have outstanding and our financial condition. WE FACE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR ABILITY TO ACQUIRE PROPERTIES THAT ARE SUITABLE FOR DEVELOPMENT. Our ability to execute our growth strategy will depend to a significant degree on the existence of attractive project acquisition opportunities. Currently, there are numerous potential buyers for these properties. Many of these potential buyers have a stronger capital structure and greater resources with which to acquire attractive resort opportunities than we have. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against such buyers. A variety of comprehensive federal, state, and local laws regulate our development and construction activities, as well as our ownership, sales, and management of real estate. These laws relate to many issues that directly or indirectly affect our business, including the following: · marketing and sales, · building design and construction, · zoning, land use, and development, · water supplies, · environmental and health concerns, and · protection of endangered species. Any difficulties in or delays in obtaining, or our inability to obtain, the requisite licenses, permits, allocations, authorizations, and other entitlements pursuant to such laws could adversely impact our ability to develop and operate our projects. The enactment of "slow growth" or "no- growth" initiatives or changes in labor or other laws in any area where our projects are located also could delay, affect the cost or feasibility of, or preclude entirely the development or expansion of our resorts. WE MAY FACE A VARIETY OF RISKS WHEN WE EXPAND OUR RESORTS. Our growth strategy includes the expansion of the number of units at our resorts, when appropriate. Risks associated with such expansion include, but are not limited to, the following: · construction costs may exceed original estimates, which could make the expansion uneconomical; · we may not complete construction or conversion as scheduled, which could result in delayed recognition of revenue and increased interest expense; · we may be delayed in obtaining, or we may not be able to obtain, applicable governmental permits and authorizations; · we may not be able to obtain necessary financing on favorable terms, if at all, and; · market demand may not be sufficient to make such expansion profitable. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that we will complete any expansion of our resorts or, if completed, that such expansion will be profitable. WE MAY FACE ADDITIONAL RISKS AS WE EXPAND INTO NEW MARKETS. Our growth strategy consists of acquiring and developing additional convenient access resorts and Varsity Clubs in the western United States and Mexico, including markets in which we currently do not have an ILX resort or conduct any sales or marketing activities. Our prior success in the geographic locations in which we currently operate does not ensure our continued success as we acquire, develop or operate future resorts or Varsity Clubs. Accordingly, in connection with expansion into new markets, we may be exposed to a number of risks, including, but not limited to, the following: 7 · our lack of familiarity and understanding of local consumer preferences; · our inability to attract, hire, train, and retain additional sales, marketing, and resort staff at competitive costs; · our inability to obtain, or to obtain in a timely manner, necessary permits and approvals from state and local government agencies and qualified construction services at acceptable costs; · our inability to capitalize on new marketing relationships and development agreements, · our inability to obtain registration for sales and marketing purposes from state and local regulatory agencies; and · the uncertainty involved in, and additional costs associated with, marketing Vacation Ownership Interests prior to completion of marketed units. OUR PRACTICE OF FINANCING CUSTOMER BORROWINGS EXPOSES US TO LIQUIDITY RISKS. We finance approximately 50% of our overall sales of Vacation Ownership Interests. Although we conduct credit pre-approval due diligence with respect to each financed sale, there are significant risks associated with such transactions, including those set forth below. WE COULD INCUR SUBSTANTIAL LOSSES IF PURCHASERS OF VACATION OWNERSHIP INTERESTS DEFAULT ON THEIR OBLIGATIONS TO PAY THE BALANCE OF THE PURCHASE PRICE. We require purchasers to make a down payment of at least 10% of the aggregate purchase price of the Vacation Ownership Interest, plus the cost of any incentives given at the time of sale, and to deliver a promissory note to us for the balance. Although we conduct credit pre-approval due diligence with respect to each purchaser, we bear the risk of default associated with customer notes that we retain and those that we sold with recourse to our company. If a buyer of a Vacation Ownership Interest defaults, we generally will pursue collection remedies to the extent legally permitted. Although in many cases we may have recourse against a buyer for the unpaid purchase price, certain states, including Arizona and Indiana, have laws that limit our ability to recover personal judgments against customers who have defaulted on their loans. If we are unable to collect the defaulted amount, we generally deed back or foreclose on and then remarket the recovered Vacation Ownership Interest. Irrespective of our remedy in the event of a default, we cannot recover the marketing, selling, and administrative costs associated with the original sale and we must incur such costs again to resell the Vacation Ownership Interest. In addition, the costs associated with exercising collection and foreclosure remedies can be high relative to the value of the underlying asset. We do not carry private mortgage insurance or its equivalent to cover defaults on customer notes. Historically we have sold or hypothecated (that is, borrowed against) the majority of our customer notes. When we sold customer notes, the purchasers generally had recourse to our company. As a result, we may be required to repurchase or replace any such customer note that becomes delinquent. We take these contingent obligations into account in establishing our allowance for uncollectible notes. We cannot provide assurance that such allowances will be adequate to offset actual defaults under customer notes, including notes that we have sold with recourse to our company. Our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if our allowances are inadequate to cover actual defaults. OUR BORROWING BASE AND/OR OUR ABILITY TO SELL CUSTOMER NOTES MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THE NATURE AND QUALITY OF THE CUSTOMER NOTES. We have typically financed our working capital needs either by selling or by hypothecating customer notes that meet certain criteria established by third-party lenders. As of December 31, 2008, we had an agreement with one lender to borrow up to $20.0 million against conforming retained customer notes, of which approximately $7.5 million remained available for borrowing. However, we are currently unable to borrow under this facility due to our March 2009 filing of Chapter 11 under the United States Bankruptcy Code discussed earlier. Once hypothecated or sold, our customers make payments on their notes directly to the lender's collection center or agent. All of a customer's payments on hypothecated notes were historically applied to our loan balance, both principal and interest. Currently we are receiving these customer payments, or cash collateral, in order to fund operations. Historically, our borrowings and sales of notes have not approached the maximum amount available under our existing credit facilities. We cannot provide assurance, however, that our future working capital needs will not exceed amounts available under future credit facilities or that we will be able to secure such facilities. To the extent that we generate additional customer notes through our sales efforts, we are currently required to pledge the applicable customer notes to our lender to replace the cash collateral. 8 WE GENERALLY EXPERIENCE NEGATIVE CASH FLOW UPON THE SALE OF FINANCED VACATION OWNERSHIP INTERESTS. On financed sales, we ordinarily receive an average of 20% of the purchase price on the sale of a Vacation Ownership Interest plus the cost of incentives given at the time of sale, but we must pay in full the costs associated with the development, marketing, and sale of the Vacation Ownership Interest. These costs generally exceed the downpayment we receive at the time of sale. Maximum borrowings and sales of notes available under our existing credit facility may not be sufficient to cover these costs, which could limit our available capital resources, liquidity, and capacity to grow. Our existing credit facility expires in 2009, however we are currently unable to borrow under this facility due to our March 2009 filing of Chapter 11 under the United States Bankruptcy Code discussed earlier. We presently do not have binding agreements to extend the terms of our existing credit facility or for any replacement financing upon the expiration of our existing credit facility. Moreover, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to arrange alternative or additional credit facilities on terms that are satisfactory to our company in the future. Accordingly, future sales of Vacation Ownership Interests may be limited by the availability of funds to finance the initial negative cash flow that often results from sales that we finance. FLUCTUATIONS IN INTEREST RATES AND INTEREST RATE MISMATCHES COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, LIQUIDITY, AND FINANCIAL POSITION. Historically we have derived a portion of income from the spread between the interest rates we charge our customers and the interest rates at which we borrowed against customer notes or at which we sold customer notes. We cannot provide assurance, however, that recent historic interest rate spreads will continue in the future. We may not be able to maintain these spreads as a result of decreases in the rates we are able to charge customers or increases in the prime lending rate, or upon the expiration of our current credit facility and our inability to replace our facility at existing terms if at all. In addition, our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates while the retained customer notes bear interest at fixed rates. As a result, increases in interest rates could cause our interest expense to exceed our interest income on our portfolio of retained customer notes. Moreover, we currently do not engage in interest rate hedging transactions. Therefore, any increase in interest rates, particularly if sustained, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. If there were a one-percentage point change, based on the $19.0 million balance of variable rate debt at December 31, 2008, interest expense would increase or decrease by approximately $190,000 (before income taxes) per annum. Further, to the extent interest rates generally decrease on third-party financing available to our customers, we face an increased risk that customers will pre-pay their customer notes and reduce our income, if any, from financing activities. In addition, if a customer prepays a note that we have sold, we are required to repay the unearned interest premium, if any, on the note. THE MISMATCH BETWEEN CUSTOMER NOTES AND OUR CREDIT FACILITIES COULD CREATE SIGNIFICANT LIQUIDITY RISKS. Customer notes typically have a seven-year term, while our related revolving credit facility matures in five years. Accordingly, a mismatch exists between our anticipated cash receipts and cash disbursements. Although historically we have been able to secure financing sufficient to fund our operations, we currently do not have agreements with our lender to extend the respective terms of our existing credit facility or to replace the credit facility upon its expiration. Our failure to obtain such refinancing or replacement credit facilities could require us to sell our portfolio of retained customer notes, potentially at a discount, or to seek other alternatives to enable us to continue in business. While we have been successful in obtaining financing to date, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. The failure to do so in the future could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. WE FACE SUBSTANTIAL COMPETITION IN THE VACATION OWNERSHIP INDUSTRY. The vacation ownership industry consists of a large number of local and regional resort developers and operators as well as some of the world's most recognized national and international lodging, hospitality, and entertainment companies, such as Marriott Ownership Resorts, The Walt Disney Company, Hilton Hotels Corporation, Hyatt Corporation, Four Seasons Hotels & Resorts, Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc., Wyndham Worldwide Corporation, Diamond Resorts Holdings, LLC and their subsidiaries and affiliates. Many of these companies have much greater access to capital and other resources than we do. As a result, we may be at a competitive disadvantage with our competitors for access to marketing, personnel, capital and other resources that we require to compete successfully. In addition, competition from other vacation ownership resort developers and operators may limit our ability to acquire additional resorts and to obtain access to affinity groups and the scale of the large national and international competitors may provide greater amenities and diversity of locations and services to customers. Our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected if we are unable to compete successfully against such companies. In addition to the competitors named above, our resorts and sales offices may face direct competition from smaller, local vacation ownership companies with resorts or sales offices within the vicinity of our resorts, as well as from resales of Vacation Ownership Interests. We also are subject to competition from other entities engaged in the commercial lodging business, including condominiums, hotels and motels, and others engaged in the leisure business who compete with us by offering easy access, including online through proprietary web sites and internet travel intermediaries, to competitive nightly rates on luxury resort accommodations in desirable locations, which could reduce demand for our Vacation Ownership Interests. We anticipate that we will continue to face substantial competition in all aspects of our operations from organizations that are more experienced in the leisure industry and that have greater access to financial, marketing, and other resources. As a result, these competitors may have greater negotiating leverage to acquire properties or other resources required to compete or may be able to take advantage of greater gross sales or access to in house resort guests and thereby reduce the retail price of their Vacation Ownership Interests. Our profit margins and operating results could be adversely affected if we find it necessary to reduce our prices in order to remain competitive. A reduction in our profit margins as a result of competitive pressures, or an increase in our costs relative to such competitors' costs, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. 9 OUR SUCCESS WILL DEPEND UPON OUR KEY MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEES. We rely upon certain key management employees. The loss of any key employee could materially and adversely affect our business. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to retain key members of our current management team or that we will be able to attract experienced personnel in the future. Our success also will depend upon our ability to attract and maintain qualified property acquisition, development, marketing, management, administrative, and sales personnel. Our ability to attract, train, and retain such personnel will become particularly important as we grow and develop additional resorts, and we cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are not able to attract and retain such key personnel. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY OUR GEOGRAPHIC CONCENTRATION WITHIN THE WESTERN UNITED STATES, PARTICULARLY ARIZONA. As of the date of this Form 10-K, a majority of our customers and resort accommodations are located in Arizona. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by local Arizona economic downturns, changing demographics or regulatory changes. Further, our growth strategy includes expansion of sales centers and Vacation Ownership Interests in the western United States and Mexico. Although expansion into markets other than Arizona may reduce our susceptibility to downturns in the Arizona market, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to successfully apply our current operating strategy to new markets beyond Arizona. In addition, because we intend to execute our growth strategy primarily in the western United States, we will continue to be particularly susceptible to adverse changes in economic circumstances, demographic trends or regulatory changes affecting the western United States in general and, in particular, the local markets that we enter. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to offset or minimize the adverse effects of such circumstances upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY INTERNATIONAL CONDITIONS. As of the date of this Form 10-K, we hold land in Puerto Penasco, Mexico in the early stages of development and manage the thirty unit Sea of Cortez Premiere Vacation Club in San Carlos, Mexico of which 1,500 one week 25-year right-to-use vacation ownership interests have been annexed to Premiere Vacation Club. Consumer perceptions of safety in Mexico may affect the desirability of these properties as vacation destinations and economic conditions in Puerto Penasco may affect the ability to obtain financing for development. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if consumer demand to travel to Mexico significantly diminishes or if the Company is unable to obtain financing for construction and personnel for managing operations in Mexico. OUR ABILITY TO SUCCESSFULLY MARKET OUR PROPERTIES WILL DEPEND UPON CONTINUED AVAILABILITY OF VIABLE EXCHANGE NETWORKS. Our ability to successfully market and sell Vacation Ownership Interests will depend in part upon the availability of "exchange networks," which allow owners of our Vacation Ownership Interests to "trade" the time they have purchased for time at another participating vacation ownership resort. All Vacation Ownership Interests that we currently offer are qualified for inclusion in one or more exchange networks. We cannot provide assurances, however, that we will be able to continue to qualify additional properties or that such exchange networks will continue to be available for our existing portfolio of Vacation Ownership Interests. If such networks cease to function effectively or if we are unable to respond to consumer demand for greater choices of desirable locations, we will be at a competitive disadvantage with respect to competitors that can offer such choices. As a result of such disadvantages, we may be unable to sell a sufficient number of Vacation Ownership Interests or we may be unable to make sales at prices that will enable us to remain profitable. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected as a result of such risks. OUR COMPANY FACES SIGNIFICANT RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH LEVERAGE. We anticipate that we will finance our future business activities, in whole or in part, with indebtedness that we obtain pursuant to additional borrowings under our existing credit facilities subject to the effect of the Chapter 11 filing on March 2, 2009 described earlier, or under credit facilities that we will obtain in the future. The definitive agreements with respect to these credit facilities do and could contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things, make capital expenditures, incur additional indebtedness and dispose of assets or that require us to maintain certain financial ratios. The indebtedness incurred under these credit facilities may be secured by mortgages on all or a portion of our resorts, customer notes, and other assets. While we are currently protected under the stay provided under the Bankruptcy Code as discussed in the first section of this Form 10-K, if we fail to provide a successful reorganization plan and default under one or more of these credit facilities, our lenders could foreclose on the vacation ownership properties secured by a mortgage or deed of trust or take possession of other assets pledged as collateral. In addition, future credit facilities may not provide for the lender to release liens on our Vacation Ownership Interests when we sell such interests. Such restrictions could impair the marketability of our Vacation Ownership Interests. 10 The extent of our leverage and the terms of our indebtedness, such as requirements that we maintain certain debt-to-equity ratios, also could impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future, to make acquisitions, or to take advantage of significant business opportunities that may arise. Furthermore, our indebtedness and related debt service obligations may increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and vacation ownership industry conditions and to increased competitive pressures. We cannot provide assurance that we will not require additional indebtedness in the foreseeable future to execute our growth strategy. EXTENSIVE FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS AFFECT THE WAY WE CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS. The federal government and the states and local jurisdictions in which we conduct business have enacted extensive regulations that affect the manner in which we market and sell Vacation Ownership Interests and conduct our other business operations. Federal legislation to which the company is or may be subject includes the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act, the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act and the Civil Rights Acts of 1964, 1968 and 1991. In addition, many states, including Arizona, have adopted specific laws and regulations regarding the sale of Vacation Ownership Interests. These laws and regulations require us, among other things, to obtain and file numerous documents and supporting information with the responsible state agency, to obtain the agency's approval for an offering statement that describes all material aspects of the sale of Vacation Ownership Interests, and to deliver an offering statement or public report, together with certain additional information concerning the terms of the purchase, to all prospective purchasers of a Vacation Ownership Interest. Laws in each state where we currently sell Vacation Ownership Interests generally grant the purchaser of a Vacation Ownership Interest the right to cancel a contract of purchase at any time within three to seven calendar days following the date the purchaser signs the contract. Most states have other laws that regulate our activities and protect purchasers, such as the following: · real estate licensure laws, · travel sales licensure laws, · immigration laws, · anti-fraud laws, · consumer protection laws, · telemarketing laws, · prize, gift, and sweepstakes laws, · and bankruptcy laws. We currently are authorized to market and sell interests in all states in which our U.S. resorts are located and all states in which we market and sell Vacation Ownership Interests. We may apply for the right to conduct sales operations in additional states throughout the United States. We cannot provide assurance, however, that any state will grant, or continue to grant, our company the right to sell our Vacation Ownership Interests in such states or that, if such right to conduct sales operations is granted, it will be granted on terms and conditions acceptable to us. Further, if agents or employees of our company violate such regulations or licensing requirements, such acts or omissions could cause the states where the violations occurred to revoke or refuse to renew the licenses required to permit us to sell Vacation Ownership Interests in such states. We believe we are in material compliance with applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the sale and marketing of Vacation Ownership Interests to which we currently are subject. From time to time, however, consumers file complaints against our company in the ordinary course of our business. We could incur significant costs to resolve such complaints or to qualify under applicable regulations in all jurisdictions in which we desire to conduct sales. We cannot provide assurance, however, that we will remain in material compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, or that violations of applicable laws will not have adverse implications for our company, including, without limitation, negative public relations, potential litigation, and regulatory sanctions. The expense, negative publicity, and potential sanctions associated with our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial position. In particular, increased regulations of telemarketing activities could adversely impact the marketing of Vacation Ownership Interests. 11 Under certain conditions, Vacation Ownership Interests may be considered "securities" under state or federal law, in which case we would be subject to the time-consuming and expensive requirements to register such interests, license our salespeople, and comply with other regulations. Although our Vacation Ownership Interests are not considered to be securities in any jurisdiction in which we operate as of the date of this Form 10-K, we cannot guarantee that we can structure Vacation Ownership Interests so as to avoid regulation as "securities" under applicable federal or state laws that may be adopted in the future or in any jurisdiction in which we may operate in the future. If our Vacation Ownership Interests are deemed to be securities, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to comply with the applicable state and federal securities requirements or that the liabilities or contingencies that result from such compliance will be immaterial. As a result, such compliance may impact our ability to conduct our business and may undermine the value of our common stock. EXCESSIVE CLAIMS FOR CONSTRUCTION-RELATED DEFECTS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND OPERATING RESULTS. While we typically engage third-party contractors to construct or renovate our resorts, our customers may assert construction claims against our company for construction defects. In addition, certain state and local laws may impose liability on property developers with respect to construction defects discovered or repairs made by future owners of such property. An excessive number of claims for construction-related defects could adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition, and operating results. ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, as well as common law, we may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances located on, in, or emanating from property that we own, lease, or operate, as well as related costs of investigation and property damage at such property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease our property or to borrow money using such real property as collateral. Noncompliance with environmental, health or safety requirements may require us to cease or alter operations at one or more of our properties. Further, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from violations of environmental regulations or from contamination associated with one or more of our properties. Although we typically conduct significant due diligence prior to acquiring real property, we may not obtain environmental reports with respect to each of our properties if management believes that the risk of potential environmental liability does not warrant the performance of environmental assessments due to the remote location of such property or any other reason. If we fail to obtain such reports, we may acquire or develop property and later discover that we cannot operate the property as planned, or we may assume environmental or other liabilities that we could have avoided if we had the information typically revealed in an environmental report. To date, we have obtained environmental reports with respect to four of our resorts. Even when we perform due diligence investigations, we cannot provide assurance that our due diligence efforts or environmental reports, when available, will reveal all environmental liabilities or that we will identify every material environmental condition. Certain environmental laws impose liability on a previous owner of property to the extent hazardous or toxic substances were present during the prior ownership period. A transfer of the property may not relieve an owner of such liability. Thus, we may have liability with respect to properties that we or our predecessors sold in the past. ACCELERATION OF DEFERRED TAXES AND NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD LIMITATIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY. While we report sales of Vacation Ownership Interests as income for financial reporting purposes upon closing a sale, federal income tax regulations allow us to report a portion of financed sales on the installment method, if we so elect. When we elect the installment method, we recognize income on the sale of a Vacation Ownership Interest (a) when we receive cash in the form of a down payment, and (b) incrementally as we receive payments on retained customer notes or when we factor the customer note. As of December 31, 2008, we had deferred taxes (i.e., taxes owed to taxing authorities in the future as a consequence of income previously reported in our financial statements) in the amount of $5.2 million as a result of this method of reporting sales of Vacation Ownership Interests. If we should factor the customer notes, if a lender forecloses on the retained customer notes, or if we otherwise collect or dispose of the retained customer notes, the deferred gain would be reportable for tax purposes and the deferred taxes, including interest on those taxes, if any, would become due. Moreover, we would owe accrued interest on such deferred taxes that would be payable when the taxes are due in the event the deferred taxes reverse in a year when income taxes are payable by our company, the likelihood of which is not now reasonably ascertainable. We cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient cash resources to pay those taxes and interest if and when they become payable. Furthermore, if our sales of Vacation Ownership Interests should decrease in the future, our diminished operations may not generate either sufficient tax losses to offset taxable income or funds to pay the deferred tax liability from prior periods. Consequently, our liquidity and financial position could be adversely affected. 12 THE LIMITED RESALE MARKET FOR VACATION OWNERSHIP INTERESTS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Based on our experience with our resorts and ownership of Vacation Ownership Interests at destination resorts owned by third parties, we believe that resales of Vacation Ownership Interests generally are made at net sales prices below their original customer purchase price. The relatively lower sales price is partly attributable to the high marketing and sales costs associated with initial sales of such Vacation Ownership Interests. Accordingly, the initial purchase of a Vacation Ownership Interest may be less attractive to prospective buyers. Also, buyers who seek to resell their Vacation Ownership Interests may compete with our efforts to sell our Vacation Ownership Interests. While Vacation Ownership Interest resale clearing houses or brokers currently do not have a material impact on our business, if a secondary market for Vacation Ownership Interests were to become more organized and liquid, the availability of resale Vacation Ownership Interests at lower prices could adversely affect our prices and the number of sales we can close. As a result, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. DOWNTURNS IN GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS CAN SIGNIFICANTLY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND OPERATING RESULTS. Any adverse change in general economic conditions, significant price increases, or adverse occurrences affecting the travel and tourism industry, such as the impact of war or terrorist activity, cyclical overbuilding in the hotel and vacation ownership industries, the financial condition of the airline industry and the impact on air travel, or a significant increase in gasoline prices could have a material adverse effect on our company's business and results of operations. Such conditions or occurrences also may have an adverse effect upon the availability and cost of financing for our company and our customers, which could preclude us from making loans to customers for Vacation Ownership Interest purchases or prevent our customers from paying off outstanding customer notes. WE COULD INCUR COSTS TO COMPLY WITH LAWS GOVERNING ACCESSIBILITY OF FACILITIES BY DISABLED PERSONS. A number of state and federal laws, including the Fair Housing Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act, impose requirements related to access and use by disabled persons of a variety of public accommodations and facilities. Although we believe our resorts are substantially in compliance with laws governing their accessibility by disabled persons, we may incur additional costs to comply with such laws at our existing or subsequently acquired resorts. Additional federal, state, and local legislation with respect to access by disabled persons may impose further burdens or restrictions on our company. We cannot forecast the ultimate cost of compliance with such legislation, but such costs could be substantial and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. WE MAY HAVE LOSSES THAT ARE NOT COVERED BY INSURANCE. We carry comprehensive liability, business interruption, title, fire and storm insurance with respect to our resorts, with policy specifications, insured limits and deductibles customarily carried for similar properties, which we believe are adequate. There are, however, certain types of losses (such as losses caused by floods, acts of terrorism, or acts of war) that are not generally insured because they are either uninsurable or not economically insurable. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose our capital invested in a resort, as well as the anticipated future revenues from such resort and would continue to be obligated on any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the property. Any such loss could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial positions. INCREASED GASOLINE PRICES, AN OUTBREAK OF WAR, ACTS OF TERRORISM, UNFORESEEN NATURAL DISASTERS OR SIMILAR EVENTS COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. Increased gasoline prices, war, or acts of terrorism, forest fires, road construction, inclement weather or other unforeseen natural disasters or similar events could reduce consumer travel. If consumer travel to our resorts and sales centers declines as a result of these or other factors, we could experience lower income due to reduced room rentals and/or fewer opportunities for sales presentations to prospective purchasers of Vacation Ownership Interests. 13 OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO SEASONALITY AND VARIABILITY OF QUARTERLY RESULTS. We historically have experienced quarterly fluctuations in our gross revenue and net income from operations. Our sales of Vacation Ownership Interests typically have been lower during the first and fourth quarters of each year and we expect this trend to continue in the future. In addition, our earnings may be adversely affected by our ability to acquire or develop new resorts in a timely manner, fluctuations in travel and vacation patterns, and weather or other natural phenomena. As we enter new markets, we may experience additional fluctuations in our quarterly results or an increased impact of seasonality on our business and results of operations. CERTAIN OF OUR EXISTING SHAREHOLDERS HAVE THE ABILITY TO EXERT A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF CONTROL OVER OUR COMPANY. Under Arizona law, holders of our company's common stock are entitled to cumulative voting rights with respect to the election of our directors. Cumulative voting permits each holder of common stock to cast an aggregate number of votes equal to the number of directorships to be filled, multiplied by the number of shares of common stock as to which the holder is entitled to cast votes. Each holder may cast all of such votes in favor of any individual nominee or may allocate them among multiple nominees as the holder chooses. As a result, a holder of less than a majority of the outstanding common stock may elect one or more directors by casting all of his or her respective votes in favor of a single candidate. We currently have nine directors. Consequently, a holder of approximately 11.1% of our outstanding common stock will be able to independently elect one director. At February 28, 2009, Joseph P. Martori beneficially owned approximately 24.1% of our outstanding common stock (and all of our officers and directors as a group beneficially owned approximately 40.4% of our outstanding common stock). Because of his ability to elect at least two of our directors, if the interests of Mr. Martori as a shareholder differ from the interests of the other shareholders, such other shareholders may be adversely affected. At February 28, 2009, our Employee Stock Ownership Plan and Trust (“ESOP”) held approximately 14.0% of our outstanding common stock. Joseph P. Martori, Nancy J. Stone and Joseph P. Martori, II are trustees of the ESOP, although the employee beneficiaries of the ESOP have the ability to vote the number of shares in the ESOP that have been allocated to their respective accounts. Our ESOP may acquire newly issued shares of common stock from us or already issued shares on the open market. To the extent the ESOP acquires shares, and shares are granted to key employees under our Stock Bonus Program, an increasing concentration of our ownership will reside with our employees, including our executive officers. IT MAY BE DIFFICULT FOR A THIRD PARTY TO ACQUIRE US. As an Arizona corporation, our articles of incorporation and Arizona law contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying attempts by others to obtain control of our company, even when those attempts may be in the best interests of our shareholders. Our articles of incorporation also authorize our board of directors, without shareholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting, liquidation, dividend, conversion, or other rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock. OUR STOCK PRICE HAS BEEN, AND WILL LIKELY CONTINUE TO BE, HIGHLY VOLATILE, WHICH MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO OBTAIN FINANCING IN THE FUTURE. The market price of our stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile due to the risks and uncertainties described in this section of the Form 10-K, as well as other factors, including: · our actual operating performance and financial condition; · our voluntary filing under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy code; · our delisting from NYSE AMEX; · fluctuation in interest rates and other conditions that could adversely affect real estate values in general or the market for Vacation Ownership Interests in particular; · price and volume fluctuations in the stock market at large which do not relate to our operating performance; and · any failure to meet market expectations. 14 From January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008, the closing price of our common stock as reported on The NYSE AMEX ranged from a high of $5.96 to a low of $0.50. As a result of this volatility and our recent filing under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, an investment in our stock is subject to substantial risk. Furthermore, the volatility of our stock price could negatively impact our ability to raise capital in the future. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility have sometimes been the subject of securities class action litigation. If litigation were instituted on this or any other basis, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. OUR STOCK IS NOT LISTED ON A PUBLIC EXCHANGE, WHICH MAY NEGATIVELY IMPACT ITS LIQUIDITY AND PRICE. As a result of our filing under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, trading in our common stock was halted on March 2, 2009 and the stock was delisted from NYSE AMEX on March 13, 2009. Although we intend to seek a market maker to enable our common stock to be quoted on the automated Pink Quote system, we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in doing so. If our stock is not quoted through the Pink Quote system, trading in the stock may be less liquid which may negatively impact the price of our stock. WE MAY NOT SUCCESSFULLY EMERGE FROM CHAPTER 11 On March 2, 2009 we filed a voluntary petition for protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. We intend to file a plan of reorganization during the exclusivity period of 120 days from the filing date and seek confirmation of that plan from our creditors and the court. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining plan confirmation nor of the effect of such a plan, if confirmed, on the value of the stock. If our plan is not confirmed, we could risk conversion to a Chapter 7 filing or dismissal, which could adversely affect the value of our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 15 Item 