Item 1A. Risk Factors Economic downturns or recessions may adversely affect our portfolio companies’ financial performance and therefore harm our operating results The United States economy has periodically experienced periods of instability and recessions and the financial results of the small to medium-sized companies in which we invest could be negatively affected by this instability and suffer deterioration in their financial results. This deterioration may have a negative effect on our financial performance. Investing in our shares may be inappropriate for an investor’s risk tolerance Our venture capital investments, in accordance with our investment objective and principal strategies, result in a greater than average amount of risk and volatility and may result in loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies are highly speculative and aggressive and, therefore, an investment in our shares may not be suitable for investors for whom such risk is inappropriate. Neither our investments nor an investment in our shares constitutes a balanced investment program. We are subject to risks created by the valuation of our portfolio investments At December 31, 2015, 100% of our investments are in private securities that are not publicly traded. There is typically no public market for securities of the small privately held companies in which we invest. Investments are valued in accordance with our established valuation policy and are stated at fair value as determined in good faith by management and approved by our Board of Directors. In the absence of a readily ascertainable market value, the estimated value of our portfolio of securities may differ significantly, favorably or unfavorably, from the values that would be placed on the portfolio if a ready market for the securities existed. Any changes in estimated value are recorded in the consolidated statement of operations as “Net increase (decrease) in unrealized appreciation on investments.” 5 Table of Contents The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business We invest, and will continue to invest, in portfolio companies that are not publicly traded, and whose securities are subject to restrictions on resale and will be less liquid than publicly traded securities. Most of our investments are or will be either equity securities or subordinated debt securities acquired directly from small, private companies. The illiquidity of most of our portfolio may adversely affect our ability to dispose of the securities at times when it may be advantageous for us to liquidate investments. In addition, we may not realize the full value of these private investments if we have to liquidate all or a part of our portfolio quickly. Investing in private companies involves a high degree of risk We typically invest a substantial portion of our assets in small and medium sized private companies. These private businesses may be thinly capitalized, unproven companies with risky technologies, may lack management depth, and may not have attained profitability. Because of the speculative nature and the lack of a public market for these investments, there is significantly greater risk of loss than is the case with securities traded on a public exchange. We expect that some of our venture capital investments will become worthless and that some will appear likely to become successful but will never realize their potential. We have been risk seeking rather than risk averse in our approach to venture capital and other investments. Even if our portfolio companies are able to develop commercially viable products, the market for new products and services is highly competitive and rapidly changing. Commercial success is difficult to predict and the marketing efforts of the portfolio companies may not be successful. We typically are minority shareholders in companies We typically invest as a minority shareholder in our portfolio companies. As a minority shareholder we are unable to require the company to seek or entertain liquidity events as a way to exit our investments. This may cause us to hold investments longer than planned or to seek a sale that may not reflect the full value of our investment. We are subject to risks created by our regulated environment We are regulated by the SBA and the SEC. Changes in the laws or regulations that govern SBICs and BDCs could significantly affect our business. Regulations and laws may be changed periodically, and the interpretations of the relevant regulations and laws are also subject to change. Any change in the regulations and laws governing our business could have a material impact on our financial condition and our results of operations. Moreover, the laws and regulations that govern BDCs and SBICs may place conflicting demands on the manner in which we operate, and the resolution of those conflicts may restrict or otherwise adversely affect our operations. We are subject to risks created by borrowing funds from the SBA Our liabilities may include large amounts of debt instruments issued through the SBA which have fixed interest rates. Until and unless we are able to invest substantially all of the proceeds from debentures at annualized interest or other rates of return that substantially exceed annualized interest rates that Rand SBIC must pay the SBA, our operating results may be adversely affected which may, in turn, depress the market price of our common stock. Competitive market for investment opportunities We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. We face competition in our investing activities from many entities including other SBICs, private venture capital funds, investment affiliates of large companies, wealthy individuals and other domestic or foreign investors. The competition is not limited to entities that operate in the same geographical area as we do. As a regulated BDC, we are required to disclose quarterly and annually the name and business description of our portfolio companies and the value of their portfolio securities. Most of our competitors are not subject to this disclosure requirement. This obligation to disclose this information could hinder our ability to invest in some portfolio companies. Additionally, other 6 Table of Contents regulations, current and future, may make us less attractive as a potential investor to a given portfolio company than a private venture capital fund. We are dependent upon key management personnel for future success We are dependent on the skill, diligence, and the network of business contacts of our two senior officers, Allen F. Grum and Daniel P. Penberthy, for the selection, structuring, closing, monitoring and valuation of our investments. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued employment of these two officers and their departure could materially adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy. We do not maintain key man life insurance on these officers. We have a limited number of companies in our portfolio of investments, and may be subjected to greater risk if any of these companies default Our portfolio investment values are concentrated in a small number of companies and as such, we may experience a significant loss in our net asset value if one or more of these companies perform poorly or go out of business. The unrealized or realized depreciation in the value of the securities of any one of these companies would negatively impact our net asset value. Fluctuations of Quarterly Results Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate significantly as a result of a number of factors. These factors include, among others, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which portfolio companies encounter competition in their markets, and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any quarter cannot be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future quarters or for a full year. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 