Item 1A. RISK FACTORSIn addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered in evaluating the Company and its business. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that the Company does not presently know or currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition.The Company’s operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include:•our ability to retain customers who represent significant proportions of revenue;•our ability to maintain the pricing model, and/or decrease the cost of sales;•our ability to increase sales of higher margin products and services;•our ability to manage our level of debt which makes us sensitive to the effects of economic downturns; our level of debt and provisions in the debt agreements could limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry;•our failure to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in our credit facility, including as a result of events beyond our control, which could result in an event of default, and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition;•volatility in commodity and energy prices and our ability to offset higher costs with price increases;•continued availability of supplies or materials used in manufacturing at competitive prices;•variability of customer delivery requirements;•a stable interest rate market and/or a stable currency rate environment in the world and specifically the countries where the Company is doing or plans to do business;•the amount and timing of investments in capital equipment, sales and marketing, engineering and information technology resources; •our ability to offset higher costs with price increases;•our ability to attract and retain employees with the skills to meet the technically complex demands of manufacturing;•adverse regulatory developments in the U.S. or any other country the Company plans to do business in;•entrance of competitive products and services in the Company's markets;•our ability to execute plans and motivate personnel in the execution of those plans;•our ability to protect and retain trade secrets related to our manufacturing processes;•adverse claims relating to the Company's intellectual property;•adoption of new, or changes in, accounting principles; and passage of new, or changes in regulations;•other risks referenced from time to time elsewhere in this report and in the Company's filings with the SEC;•adverse regulatory developments specifically healthcare policy changes, environmental and other regulatory changes;•the costs inherent with complying with statutes and regulations applicable to public reporting companies, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010;•our ability to efficiently integrate future acquisitions and other new lines of business that the Company may enter in the future, if any;•our ability to maintain compliance with the NYSE MKT requirements for continued listing of our common stock;•our securities may be delisted from the NYSE MKT which could limit investors' ability to effect transactions in the Company's securities and subject the stock to additional trading restrictions; and •general economic conditions.As a response to changes in the competitive environment, the Company may from time to time make certain pricing, service, technology or marketing decisions or business or technology acquisitions that could have a material adverse effect on the quarterly and annual results. Due to all of these factors, the operating results may fall below the expectations of stockholders and investors in any future period and make period to period comparisons difficult.The Company is dependent on a limited number of significant customers, the loss of which may have a significant adverse effect on our financial results.During the years ended December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, the Company had one major customer which accounted for over 10% of sales. The three largest customers accounted for 28%, 9% and 8% of sales in 2012 as compared with 34%, 8% and 7% of sales in 2011. The loss of any one or more of these customers may have an immediate significant adverse effect on the Company's financial results. Currently, the Company generally does not receive purchase volume commitments extending beyond several months. Large corporations can shift focus away from a need for the Company’s products and services with little or no warning. 5A significant portion of the Company's revenues are derived from the sale of a single product line.In fiscal years 2012 and 2011, the Company derived 60% and 60%, respectively, of its revenues from it's largest single product line. While the technology used in this product line has been used for many years, there is no assurance that a new patented or unpatented technology might not replace the existing technology. Any substantial technological advance that eliminates this product line will have a material adverse effect on the Company's operating results.The level of debt makes the Company more sensitive to the effects of economic downturns; the level of debt and provisions in the debt agreements could limit the Company's ability to react to changes in the economy or industry.The level of debt makes the Company more vulnerable to changes in the results of operations. The Company's level of debt could have other negative consequences, including the following:•Limiting the Company's ability to borrow money or sell stock for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other general corporate purposes;•Limiting the Company's flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in operations, business or the industry in which the Company competes; and•Leverage may place the Company at a competitive disadvantage by limiting its ability to invest in the business or in further research and development.The Company's ability to make payments on the indebtedness depends on the ability to generate cash in the future. If the Company does not generate sufficient cash flow to meet the debt service and working capital requirements, it may need to seek additional financing. Failure to generate sufficient cash flow may result in a violation of financial covenants under our debt agreements and make it more difficult to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable, or at all. In addition, the Company's credit facility contains covenants that limit the flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in the business and industry, including limitations on incurring additional indebtedness, making investments, granting liens and merging or consolidating with other companies. Complying with these covenants may impair the Company's ability to finance the future operations or capital needs or to engage in other favorable business activities. The failure to comply with financial and other covenants contained in the Company's credit facility, including as a result of events beyond the Company's control, could result in an event of default, which, if incurred, could materially and adversely affect operating results and financial condition.The Company's credit facility contains covenants that relate to various matters including debt and leverage ratios, further borrowings and security interests, merger or consolidation, acquisitions, guarantees, sales of assets other than inventory or obsolete equipment in the normal course of business, changes in management or ownership and payment of dividends. If there were an event of default under any of the debt instruments that was not cured or waived, the holder of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to all debt owed to it to be due and payable immediately. Management cannot assure that the Company's assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under the outstanding debt instruments, either upon maturity or upon an event of default, or that the Company would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on those debt instruments.Large OEM customers can change their demand on short notice, further adding to the unpredictability of the quarterly sales and earnings.The Company's quarterly results have in the past and may in the future vary due to the lack of dependable long-term demand forecasts from its larger OEM customers. In addition to this risk, many of the Company’s OEM customers have the right to change their demand schedule, either up or down, within a relatively short time horizon. These changes may result in the Company incurring additional working capital costs and causing increased manufacturing unit cost due to these short-term fluctuations. In particular, the quarterly operating results have in the past fluctuated as a result of some of the larger OEM customers changing their orders within a fiscal quarter. The expense levels and inventory, to a large extent, are based on shipment expectations in the quarter. If sales levels fall below these expectations, through a delay in orders or otherwise, operating results are likely to be adversely affected. In addition, the Company has been subject to timing delays in orders for its defense industry and medical molding products which also affects predictability of its earnings. Although the Company continues to attempt to lessen its dependence on a few large customers, it can provide no assurance that it will be able to materially alter this dependency in the immediate future, if at all.Failure to comply with Quality System Regulations or industry standards could result in a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.The Company's Quality Management System complies with the requirements of ISO 13485:2003, ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2010 and OHSAS 18001: 2010. In addition the Company has registered its manufacturing facilities under ITAR and with the FDA. If the Company were not able to comply with the Quality Management System or industry-defined standards, it may not be able to fill customer orders to the satisfaction of its customers. Failure to produce products compliant with these standards could lead to a loss of customers which would have an adverse impact on the Company's business and results of operations. 6If trade secrets are not kept confidential, the secrets may be used by others to compete against the Company.The Company relies on trade secrets to protect its proprietary processes and there are no assurances that others will not independently develop or acquire substantially equivalent technologies or otherwise gain access to the proprietary process. Ultimately the meaningful protection of such proprietary technology cannot be guaranteed. The Company relies on confidentiality agreements with its employees. Remedies for any breach by a party of these confidentiality agreements may not be adequate to prevent such actions. Failure to maintain trade secret protection, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on the Company.If the Company is unable to keep up with rapid technological changes, the processes, products or services it offers may become obsolete and unmarketable.The medical device, software, and services industries are characterized by technological change over time. Although the Company attempts to expand technological capabilities in order to remain competitive, discoveries by others may make the Company’s processes, products or services obsolete. If the Company cannot compete effectively in the marketplace, the potential for profitability and financial position will suffer.General economic conditions, largely out of the Company’s control, may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.The Company’s business may be affected by changes in general economic conditions, both nationally and internationally. Recessionary economic cycles, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, inflation, higher levels of unemployment, changes in the laws or industry regulations or other economic factors may adversely affect the demand for the Company’s products. Additionally, these economic factors, as well as new or higher taxes or tax rates, increased costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, and changes in other laws and regulations may increase the Company’s cost of sales and operating expenses, which may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.The Company is subject to stringent environmental regulations.The Company's manufacturing operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local requirements governing the protection of the environment. These environmental regulations include those related to the use, storage, handling, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous materials used in or resulting from the Company's manufacturing processes. Failure to comply with environmental law could subject the Company to substantial liability or force the Company to significantly change its manufacturing operations. In addition, under some of these laws and regulations, the Company could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if its properties are contaminated, even if it did not cause the contamination.A product liability suit could adversely affect the Company's operating results.The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of the customer's and Company's medical devices and/or components entail the inherent risk of liability claims or product recalls. If the Company's customers are involved in a lawsuit, it is possible that the Company would also be named. Although the Company maintains product liability insurance, coverage may not be adequate. Product liability insurance is expensive, and in the future may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful product liability claim or product recall could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, and ability to market the Company's products and services in the future.The Company could become involved in litigation over intellectual property rights.The medical device, software and services industries have been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Litigation, including interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, which would likely result in substantial cost to the Company, may be necessary to enforce any patents issued or licensed to the Company and/or to determine the scope and validity of others' proprietary rights. In particular, competitors and other third parties hold issued patents, which may result in claims of infringement against the Company or other patent litigation.The Company may make acquisitions of companies, products or technologies that may disrupt the business and divert management’s attention, cause the Company to incur debt or issue equity securities and adversely impact its results of operations and financial condition.The Company may make acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies from time to time. Any acquisitions will require the assimilation of the operations, products and personnel of the acquired businesses and the training and motivation of these individuals. Management may be unable to maintain and improve upon the uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies if the Company fails in this integration. Acquisitions may cause disruptions in operations and divert management’s attention from day-to-day operations, which could impair the Company's relationships with current employees, customers and strategic partners. The Company also may have to, or choose to, incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions and their working capital needs. Such financing may not be available to the Company or may be on terms that involve significant cash obligations as well as covenants and financial ratios that may restrict the Company's ability to operate its business. The issuance of equity securities in connection with an acquired business could be substantially dilutive to the 7stockholders’ holdings. In addition, profitability may suffer because of such acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for other intangible assets. Further, customer satisfaction or performance problems with an acquired business, technology, service or device could also have a material adverse effect on the Company's reputation. If the Company is unable to integrate acquired businesses, products, technologies or personnel with existing operations, or obtain financing on a timely basis and on satisfactory terms, the Company may not receive the intended benefits of such acquisitions. The Company is not currently party to any agreements, written or oral, for the acquisition of any company, product or technology.The Company may be exposed to potential risks relating to internal control over financial reporting.As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX 404”), the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 10-K. In addition, if a reporting company is an accelerated filer or a large accelerated filer (as defined by the Exchange Act), the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements must also attest to and report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as well as the operating effectiveness of the company’s internal controls. The Company was only subject to the management evaluation and review portion of these requirements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012.In the event the Company qualifies as an accelerated or large accelerated reporting company at the end of its second quarter of 2013, it may be subject to more stringent requirements under SOX 404 for the fiscal year 2013. In the event the independent registered public accounting firm identified significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the Company’s internal controls that management could not remediate in a timely manner or it was unable to receive an attestation from the independent registered public accounting firm with respect to its internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of the financial statements and the Company’s ability to obtain equity or debt financing in the future could suffer.Management identified material weaknesses in the financial reporting for 2012. Failure to identify any future ineffectiveness of internal controls could adversely affect the Company and the price of the Company's common stock.Management continues to review internal control systems, processes and procedures for compliance with the requirements of a smaller reporting company under SOX 404. In 2012, such reviews resulted in the identification of material weaknesses in management's internal controls and conclusions that management's disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were ineffective as of December 31, 2012. Specifically, management has determined that the Company's internal controls as of December 31, 2012 were deficient in that the Company did not adequately allocate proper and sufficient amount of resources to ensure that the necessary internal controls were implemented and followed, specifically as it relates to: (i)the preparation of the Company's financial statements and Annual Report included in the Form 10-K; (ii) the accounting for certain multiple element revenue arrangements; and (iii) segregation of duties as it relates to senior financial management's ability to post journal entries.Management has discussed its conclusions regarding the deficiencies in internal controls over financial reporting with the Audit Committee and with the Company's independent registered public accounting firm and expects to develop the appropriate remediation plan to address these material weaknesses no later than June 30, 2013.There is no guarantee that management will not continue to identify material weaknesses in the Company's internal controls in the future. Continued disclosures of material weaknesses in the Company's SEC reports could cause investors to lose confidence in the Company's financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of the Company's stock. The Company's securities may be delisted from the NYSE MKT which could limit investors' ability to effect transactions in the Company's securities and subject the stock to additional trading restrictions. The Company's common stock is listed on the NYSE MKT, a national securities exchange, or the Exchange. By letter dated April 17, 2013, the Exchange notified the Company that it is not in compliance with Sections 134 and 1101 of the Exchange's Company Guide as a result of the failure to file its annual report on Form 10-K on a timely basis. In order to maintain the listing of its common stock on the Exchange, the Company was required to submit a plan of compliance by May 1, 2013, advising the Exchange of the actions it had taken, or will take, that will bring it into compliance by July 16, 2013. The Company submitted a plan to the Exchange on May 1, 2013 explaining that the Company planned to file the Form 10-K within the next two weeks. The Company failed to file the Form 10-K within such period. Additionally, the continuing work on the Form 10-K has delayed the review of the Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2013 and such report will not be able to be timely filed. Management discussed the revised timetable with the staff of the NYSE MKT on May 17, 2013 and submitted a revised plan of compliance. In the event the NYSE MKT does not accept the Company's plan of compliance, the Company's common stock will be subject to delisting proceedings.If the Company is unable to maintain the listing of its stock on the NYSE MKT or another exchange, the Company and its security holders could face significant material adverse consequences including: •a limited availability of market quotations for its stock; and•a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. 8Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.