Item 1A. RISK FACTORSIn addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered in evaluating the Company and its business. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that the Company does not presently know or currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition.The Company’s operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors.The Company’s operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include:•the ability to maintain the pricing model, primarily for medical electrode sensors and/or decrease the cost of sales;•the ability to increase sales of higher margin products and services;•variations in the mix of products and services sold;•the level of demand for our products and services and those that the Company may develop or acquire;•volatility in commodity and energy prices and the ability to offset higher costs with price increases;•variability of customer delivery requirements;•the ability to successfully market WirelessDx services, manage the timing of investment in operational infrastructure, ability to accelerate the pace of revenues from customer implementation, and fund the expansion of this operation;•a stable interest rate market and/or a stable currency rate environment in the world and specifically the countries where the Company is doing or plan to do business;•continued availability of supplies or materials used in manufacturing at competitive prices;•the amount and timing of investments in capital equipment, sales and marketing, engineering and information technology resources; •the ability to license our software, provide timely customization and updates;•adverse regulatory developments in the U.S. or any other country the Company plans to do business in;•entrance of competitive products and services in the Company's markets;•the ability of management to execute plans and motivate personnel in the execution of those plans;•no adverse publicity related to the Company and/or its products and services;•no adverse claims relating to the Company's intellectual property;•adoption of new, or changes in, accounting principles;•adverse regulatory developments specifically healthcare policy changes, environmental regulations and other regulatory changes;•the costs inherent with complying with statutes and regulations applicable to public reporting companies, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; •the ability to efficiently integrate future acquisitions and other new lines of business that the Company may enter in the future, if any; and•general economic conditions.As a strategic response to changes in the competitive environment, the Company may from time to time make certain pricing, service, technology or marketing decisions or business or technology acquisitions that could have a material adverse effect on the quarterly and annual results. Due to all of these factors, the operating results may fall below the expectations of stockholders and investors in any future period and make period to period comparisons difficult.8Large OEM customers can change their demand on short notice, further adding to the unpredictability of the quarterly sales and earnings.The Company's quarterly results have in the past and may in the future vary due to the lack of dependable long-term demand forecasts from its larger OEM customers. In addition to this risk, many of the Company’s OEM customers have the right to change their demand schedule, either up or down, within a relatively short time horizon. These changes may result in the Company incurring additional working capital costs and causing increased manufacturing unit cost due to these short-term fluctuations. In particular, the quarterly operating results have in the past fluctuated as a result of some of the larger OEM customers changing their orders within a fiscal quarter. The expense levels and inventory, to a large extent, are based on shipment expectations in the quarter. If sales levels fall below these expectations, through a delay in orders or otherwise, operating results are likely to be adversely affected. In addition, the Company has been subject to timing delays in orders for its defense industry and medical molding products which also affects predictability of its earnings. Although the Company continues to attempt to lessen its dependence on a few large customers, it can provide no assurance that it will be able to materially alter this dependency in the immediate future, if at all.A significant portion of the Company's revenues are derived from the sale of a single product line.In fiscal years 2011 and 2010, the Company derived 62% and 46%, respectively, of its revenues from medical electrode sensors for use in disposable electrodes. While the technology in electrode sensors has been used for many years, there is no assurance that a new patented or unpatented technology might not replace the existing disposable electrode sensors. Any substantial technological advance that eliminates the Company’s products will have a material adverse effect on the Company's operating results.The Company is dependent on a limited number of customers.In the fiscal years 2011 and 2010, 34% and 53%, respectively, of the Company’s revenues were derived from individual customers representing 10% or more of the total sales. The loss of any one or more of these customers may have an immediate significant adverse effect on our financial results. Currently, the Company generally does not receive purchase volume commitments extending beyond several months. Large corporations can shift focus away from a need for the Company’s products and services with little or no warning.Failure to comply with Quality System Regulations or industry standards could result in a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.Micron's Quality Management System complies with the requirements of ISO 13485:2003 and ISO 9001:2008. If Micron were not able to comply with the Quality Management System or industry-defined standards, it may not be able to fill customer orders to the satisfaction of its customers. Failure to produce products compliant with these standards could lead to a loss of customers which would have an adverse impact on the Company's business and results of operations.If trade secrets are not kept confidential, the secrets may be used by others to compete against the Company.Micron relies on trade secrets to protect its proprietary processes and there are no assurances that others will not independently develop or acquire substantially equivalent technologies or otherwise gain access to the proprietary process. Ultimately the meaningful protection of such proprietary technology cannot be guaranteed. The Company relies on confidentiality agreements with its employees. Remedies for any breach by a party of these confidentiality agreements may not be adequate to prevent such actions. Failure to maintain trade secret protection, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on the Company.If the Company is unable to keep up with rapid technological changes, the processes, products or services it offers may become obsolete and unmarketable.The medical device, software, and services industries are characterized by technological change over time. Although the Company attempts to expand technological capabilities in order to remain competitive, discoveries by others may make the Company’s processes, products or services obsolete. If the Company cannot compete effectively in the marketplace, the potential for profitability and financial position will suffer. 9The operation of the WirelessDx's monitoring facility is subject to rules and regulations governing IDTFs; failure to comply with these rules could prevent it from receiving reimbursement from Medicare and some commercial payers. WirelessDx has a monitoring facility certified as an IDTF in Kentucky that analyzes the data obtained from arrhythmia monitors and reports the results to physicians. In order for it to receive reimbursement from Medicare and some commercial payers, WirelessDx must maintain this certification. An IDTF certification requires that we follow strict regulations governing how the center operates, such as requirements regarding the certifications of the technicians who review data transmitted from monitors acquired by WirelessDx from third parties. These rules and regulations are subject to change. If they change, WirelessDx may have to change the operating procedures at the monitoring facility potentially increasing costs significantly. If management fails to obtain and maintain IDTF certifications, WirelessDx's services may no longer be reimbursed by Medicare and some commercial payers, which could have a material adverse impact on WirelessDx's growth potential. Inadequate levels of reimbursement from governmental or other third-party payers for procedures using WirelessDx's services may reduce demand for WirelessDx's services and adversely impact its operations and results.Physicians and other healthcare providers that purchase WirelessDx's services typically rely on governmental and other third-party payers, such as federal Medicare, state Medicaid, and private health insurance plans to pay for all or a portion of the cost of the procedures that utilize those services. The availability of this reimbursement may limit the number of patients. Denial of coverage or reductions in levels of reimbursement to customers for procedures performed by WirelessDx's customers by governmental or other third-party payers may cause WirelessDx's service revenues to decrease.General economic conditions, largely out of the Company’s control, may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.The Company’s business may be affected by changes in general economic conditions, both nationally and internationally. Recessionary economic cycles, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, inflation, higher levels of unemployment, changes in the laws or industry regulations or other economic factors may adversely affect the demand for the Company’s products. Additionally, these economic factors, as well as higher tax rates, increased costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, and changes in other laws and regulations may increase the Company’s cost of sales and operating expenses, which may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.The Company is subject to stringent environmental regulations.Micron's manufacturing operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local requirements governing the protection of the environment. These environmental regulations include those related to the use, storage, handling, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous materials used in or resulting from Micron’s manufacturing processes. Failure to comply with environmental law could subject the Company to substantial liability or force the Company to significantly change its manufacturing operations. In addition, under some of these laws and regulations, the Company could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if its properties are contaminated, even if it did not cause the contamination.A product liability suit could adversely affect our operating results.The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of the customer's and Company's medical devices and/or components entail the inherent risk of liability claims or product recalls. If the Company's customers are involved in a lawsuit, it is possible that the Company would also be named. Although the Company maintains product liability insurance, coverage may not be adequate. Product liability insurance is expensive, and in the future may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful product liability claim or product recall could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, and ability to market the Company's products and services in the future.The Company could become involved in litigation over intellectual property rights.The medical device, software and services industries have been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Litigation, including interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, which would likely result in substantial cost to the Company, may be necessary to enforce any patents issued or licensed to the Company and/or to determine the scope and validity of others' proprietary rights. In particular, competitors and other third parties hold issued patents, which may result in claims of infringement against the Company or other patent litigation.10The Company may make acquisitions of companies, products or technologies that may disrupt the business and divert management’s attention, cause the Company to incur debt or issue equity securities and adversely impact its results of operations and financial condition.The Company may make acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies from time to time. Any acquisitions will require the assimilation of the operations, products and personnel of the acquired businesses and the training and motivation of these individuals. Management may be unable to maintain and improve upon the uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies if the Company fails in this integration. Acquisitions may cause disruptions in operations and divert management’s attention from day-to-day operations, which could impair the Company's relationships with current employees, customers and strategic partners. The Company also may have to, or choose to, incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions and their working capital needs. Such financing may not be available to the Company or may be on terms that involve significant cash obligations as well as covenants and financial ratios that may restrict the Company's ability to operate its business. The issuance of equity securities in connection with an acquired business could be substantially dilutive to the stockholders’ holdings. In addition, profitability may suffer because of such acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for other intangible assets. Further, customer satisfaction or performance problems with an acquired business, technology, service or device could also have a material adverse effect on the Company's reputation. If the Company is unable to integrate acquired businesses, products, technologies or personnel with existing operations, or obtain financing on a timely basis and on satisfactory terms, the Company may not receive the intended benefits of such acquisitions. The Company is not currently party to any agreements, written or oral, for the acquisition of any company, product or technology.Changes in the health care industry or tort reform could reduce the number of arrhythmia monitoring solutions ordered by physicians, which could result in a decline in the demand for our solutions, pricing pressure and decreased revenue. Changes in the health care industry directed at controlling health care costs or perceived over-utilization of arrhythmia monitoring solutions could reduce the volume of solutions ordered by physicians. If more health care cost controls are broadly instituted throughout the health care industry, the volume of cardiac monitoring solutions could decrease, resulting in pricing pressure and declining demand for our services, which could harm our operating results. Healthcare legislation requiring medical device manufacturers to pay excise taxes on medical devices may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. Beginning in 2013, under healthcare reform legislation enacted in March 2010 each medical device manufacturer will be required to pay an excise tax (or sales tax) in an amount equal to 2.3 percent of the price for which such manufacturer sells its medical devices. This tax applies to all medical devices, including a portion of the Company's products which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.The Company may be exposed to potential risks relating to internal control over financial reporting and the ability to have those controls attested to by the independent registered public accounting firm.As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX 404”), the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 10-K. In addition, if a reporting company is an accelerated filer or a large accelerated filer (as defined by the Exchange Act), the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements must also attest to and report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as well as the operating effectiveness of the company’s internal controls. The Company was only subject to the management evaluation and review portion of these requirements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.In the event the Company qualifies as an accelerated or large accelerated reporting company at the end of its second quarter of 2012, it may be subject to more stringent requirements under SOX 404 for the fiscal year 2012. There can be no assurance that the Company would receive any required attestation from the independent registered public accounting firm. In the event the independent register public accounting firm identified significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the Company’s internal controls that management could not remediate in a timely manner or it was unable to receive an attestation from the independent registered public accounting firm with respect to its internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of the financial statements and the Company’s ability to obtain equity or debt financing in the future could suffer.Management identified a material weakness in our financial reporting, and failure to remediate it or any future ineffectiveness of internal controls could adversely affect the Company and the price of our common stock. Management continues to review our internal control systems, processes and procedures for compliance with the requirements of a smaller reporting company under SOX 404. Such a review resulted in identification of a material weakness in our internal controls and a conclusion that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were ineffective as of December 31, 2011, as discussed in Section 9A of this annual report on Form 10-K. While we are taking steps to remediate the weakness, there is no guarantee that we will not identify additional material weaknesses in our internal controls in the future. Disclosures of material weaknesses in our SEC reports could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our stock. 11Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.