Item 1A Risk Factors Item 2 Properties Item 3 Legal Proceedings Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Part II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6 Selected Financial Information Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Item 8 Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures Item 9A Controls and Procedures Item 9B Other Information Part III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance Item 11 Executive Compensation Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services Part IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Signatures PART I Item 1. BUSINESS. OVERVIEW Arrhythmia Research Technology, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("ART"), is engaged in the development of medical software, which acquires data and analyzes electrical impulses of the heart to detect and aid in the treatment of potentially lethal arrhythmias. ART’s patented products consist of signal-averaging electrocardiographic (SAECG) software whose proprietary Windows based version is named the Predictorâ series. Rather than having a direct sales force, our current intent is to market ART’s product through licensing with original equipment manufacturers. There were no sales or licensing of the software in 2008 or 2007. Our SAECG product is currently used in a National Institutes for Health (“NIH”) funded investigation into “Risk Stratification in MADIT II Type Patients”. At the completion of this study and assuming favorable study results, we will seek to establish licensing contracts with original equipment manufacturers for this product. Sudden cardiac death afflicts over 300,000 individuals in the United States each year. Most sudden cardiac deaths are due to sustained ventricular tachycardia (abnormally rapid heartbeat) or ventricular fibrillation (very fast, completely irregular heartbeat). Ventricular Late Potentials may indicate a risk of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias. The SAECG processes enable Late Potentials to be amplified and enhanced, while eliminating undesired electrical noise. ART’s wholly owned subsidiary, Micron Products, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation (“Micron”), is a manufacturer and distributor of silver plated and non-silver plated conductive resin sensors ("sensors") used in the manufacture of disposable integrated electrodes constituting a part of electrocardiographic diagnostic and monitoring instruments. Micron also acts as a distributor of metal snap fasteners ("snaps"), another component used in the manufacture of disposable electrodes. The sensors are a critical component of the signal pathway in many different types of disposable electrodes. For example, the disposable electrodes used to capture the electric impulses of the heart and enable the analysis of Late Potentials require sensors which provide for an accurate, low noise signal to be transmitted to the monitoring device. Micron also manufactures and sells or leases assembly machines to its sensor and snap customers. Figure 1: Schematic of Integrated ECG Electrode. Micron is one of a few companies providing silver / silver-chloride sensors to the medical device industry. Micron’s customers manufacture monitoring and transmitting electrodes which are utilized in a variety of bio-feedback and bio-stimulation applications including, among many others, electrocardiograms (ECG’s), electroencephalograms (EEG’s), electro-muscular stimulation (EMS), and thermo-electrical neural stimulation (TENS). Micron also produces high volume precision plastic products. These high volume products leverage the production skills for the resin sensors while providing a diversification from the dependence on a single product line. In 2004, Micron completed the purchase of substantially all of the operating assets of privately held Shrewsbury Molders Inc. formerly known as New England Molders, Inc. of Shrewsbury, Massachusetts forming the New England Molders ("NEM") division of Micron. This division is a custom thermoplastic injection molder that produces a wide variety of consumable medical products, medical devices and equipment components, and other products for the consumer, electronic, aerospace, and defense industries. The NEM division is located along with Micron at the Company’s Fitchburg complex in a renovated 100 year old brick mill building. The location provides operational synergies between Micron and NEM in manufacturing and administration. In early 2007, a class 10,000 level clean room was constructed for precision injection molding. This manufacturing space was fully operational in February 2007. Micron Integrated Technologies (“MIT”), a division of Micron formed in January 2006, specializes in the production of metal and plastic components and assemblies for the medical and defense industries. Leveraging the high quality manufacturing of the NEM division’s plastic production capacity and Leominster Tool Division’s production capabilities with a comprehensive portfolio of value-added manufacturing, design and engineering services, the division provides complete product life cycle management: from concept to product development, prototyping, volume production, and assembly. The success of the division, which is located in the Fitchburg complex, is dependent on a comprehensive network of small, highly specialized manufacturing partners to produce a wide variety of component parts for the manufacture of the division’s products. The Leominster Tool Division (“LTD”), which was formed following the December 2006 purchase of substantially all of the operating assets of privately held Leominster Tool Company, Inc., with a customer base in die casting, and thermoplastic injection molding also vertically integrates the design, manufacture, and repair of production injection molding tooling used by Micron, NEM, and MIT. Micron and its divisions benefit from an in-house source for injection molding tooling as well as new capabilities in the production of metal components. In 2008, LTD was fully integrated into the Fitchburg complex. PRODUCTS The following table sets forth for the periods specified, the revenue derived from the products of ART and its subsidiary Micron (collectively the "Company"): Year Ended December 31, 2008 % 2007 % Sensors $ 9,398,287 42 $ 9,510,871 49 Other molded products 2,574,301 11 3,161,497 16 Snaps and snap machines 203,562 1 130,385 1 Subassembly and metal component manufacturing 7,384,790 33 5,129,586 26 Injection molding tooling 1,478,970 7 1,094,281 6 Custom manufactured metal medical devices 1,186,435 5 234,843 1 Other products 255,874 1 226,299 1 Total $ 22,482,219 100 $ 19,487,762 100 Sensors Micron is a manufacturer and distributor of silver-plated and non-silver plated conductive resin sensors for use in the manufacture of disposable electrodes for ECG diagnostic, monitoring and related instrumentation. The type of sensor manufactured by Micron consists of a molded plastic substrate plated with a silver / silver chloride surface, which is a highly sensitive conductor of electrical signals. Silver / silver chloride-plated disposable electrodes are utilized in coronary care units, telemetry units, and for other monitoring purposes. In addition to the traditional ECG tests, disposable electrodes incorporating Micron’s sensor are used in connection with stress tests, Holter monitoring, and event recorders. Micron also manufactures sensors and conductive plastic studs used in the manufacture of radio translucent electrodes. The radio translucent conductive plastic studs are manufactured with uniquely engineered resin to enable electrical conductivity between the sensor and the recording instrument without the use of a metal snap. The radio translucent electrodes are virtually invisible to X-rays and are preferred in some medical environments such as nuclear medicine, cardiac catheterization laboratories, and certain stress procedures. Micron also manufactures the mating conductive resin snaps, which replace traditional metal snap fasteners in the radio translucent applications. Other custom designed sensors are manufactured for specific unique applications in the EEG, EMG or TENS markets. Recent growth in the volume of highly engineered EEG sensors reflects the increasing demand for noninvasive measuring of neurological impulses. Micron’s strength in design and low cost manufacturing support enables our customers to grow into unique niche medical applications and electrophysiological monitoring with custom designed sensors. Other Molded Products Micron also sells high volume precision custom molded component parts. The Company’s sales in these high volume molded products diversify our existing product lines while utilizing previously unused manufacturing capacity. To defray the customer’s upfront tooling costs and remain competitive with global competition, some high volume customers require the financing of a customer specific tool over several years. The cost of the tool is guaranteed by the customer and repaid over time as the molded product is shipped. The inclusion of the NEM division in the Micron molding facility increased production flexibility, and dramatically expanded the capability to produce an increased size and complexity of products. From consumable medical products to medical equipment components, this division has decreased Micron’s dependence on sensor production for manufacturing growth. In order to leverage the NEM division’s thermoplastic injection molding capabilities, the MIT division produces assemblies using plastic molded components produced by NEM and assembled with outsourced and internally produced metal components. Snaps and Snap Machines Metal Snap Fasteners Metal snap fasteners are used as an attachment and conductive connection between the disposable electrode and the lead wires of an ECG machine. Micron purchases the metal snap fasteners for resale from multiple suppliers and performs additional quality assurance tests, repackages and stocks these snap fastners for its customers who purchase the snaps in addition to Micron’s sensors. High Speed Electrode Assembly Machine Certain manufacturers of disposable medical electrodes use the Company’s attaching machines in the assembly of sensors and snaps into disposable electrodes. Manufacturing, leasing, selling, and providing replacement parts to medical sensor and snap application machines provide Micron with a complimentary product to sell to existing sensor and snap customers. As a value added service, a technician can be dispatched to troubleshoot and improve the performance of our customers’ fully automated electrode assembly production lines. Other Products and Services Subassembly and metal component manufacturing The MIT division’s product life cycle management program is focused on the integration of plastic and metal components into subassemblies. The value added service of in house production capabilities combined with a network of subcontracted specialty coatings, metallurgical treatments, and unique production abilities has diversified this product line to include defense industry consumables and equipment subassemblies for medical device components. Injection Molding Tooling The design, manufacture, and rehabilitation of injection molding tools for our customers are part of the service package provided by the NEM division. The design and manufacture of tooling is a leading indicator of future product revenue. The Company’s engineering and mold designers work with customers’ product development engineers to design and produce unique tooling for their products. Micron’s expertise in cost effective manufacturing creates a sustainable partnership with our customers as prototyped parts move to full scale production. The LTD’s primary product is thermoplastic injection molding tooling. The division provides cost savings to Micron by vertically integrating mold making and repair into the structure of Micron’s sensor and custom injection molding businesses, and provides in-house services for the NEM and MIT divisions. The division continues to generate revenues from other customers for similar industrial applications, metal die casting molds, investment casting wax molds, and thermoplastic injection/extrusion blow molds. Custom Manufactured Metal Medical Devices During 2007, a climate controlled medical machining cell was built for the custom computer aided design and computer controlled metal machining of patient specific orthopedic medical device components. The new manufacturing space includes a machine programming office with the latest technology in computer programming for 5-axis machining with CNC vertical milling machines and a state of the art 5-axis machining center. These products involve complex machining of wrought and cast cobalt-chromium-molybdenum alloy as well as high molecular weight polymers into unique customized products. No two components are identical and require precision manufacturing verified by complex computer controlled automated coordinate measuring equipment that measure up to 25 points per square inch. The new space can accommodate a 50% increase in manufacturing capacity before any physical constraints are realized to this climate controlled space. Signal-Averaging Electrocardiographic (SAECG) Products - Predictorâ 7 The Predictor® 7 software is a Windows® compatible version of Arrhythmia Research Technology’s analytical program for the detection of Late Potentials. Predictor® 7 utilizes the unique, patented Bi-directional, Four-Pole Butterworth Filtering technique defined as the “Standard” by the joint AHA/ACC/ESC task force on Signal-Averaging Electrocardiography1. All clinically accepted measurement criteria are provided: total QRS duration, duration of the QRS under 40 µV, the RMS voltage of the last 40 msec of the QRS and the noise level. Graphical output of the analysis is presented both on screen and in hard copy. Predictor® 7 also incorporates additional signal processing capabilities for clinical research. The IntraSpect™ module permits detection of ventricular late potentials in patients with Bundle Branch Block. P-wave signal averaging helps predict patients at risk for atrial fibrillation and flutter. A Heart Rate Variability module can be incorporated on the Predictor platform. The SAECG product is currently used in a National Institutes for Health (“NIH”) funded investigation into “Risk Stratification in MADIT II Type Patients”. The primary objectives of this study are: 1. To evaluate the predictive value of a multivariate model consisting of pre-specified clinical and ECG parameters for predicting arrhythmic events in Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator Implantation Trial II (“MADIT II”) type post-infarction patients; 2. To develop a multivariate risk-stratification model, based on a broader spectrum of pre-specified clinical covariates and ECG parameters, and from it a risk-scoring algorithm identifying high-risk and low-risk patient groups; this algorithm will be validated by a cross-validation study. Such an algorithm will enable an ordering of patients who may benefit most, and benefit least, from implantable cardiac defibrillator (“ICD”) therapy. At the completion of this study, estimated in 2010, and assuming favorable study results, we will seek to establish licensing contracts with original equipment manufacturers for this product. GENERAL Customers and Sales During the year ended December 31, 2008, there were three major customers, each of which accounted for over 10% of the Company’s sales and a loss of this base may have a material adverse effect on results. The three largest customers accounted for 27%, 17%, and 12% of sales in 2008 as compared to the two largest customers at 27% and 25% of sales for the year ended December 31, 2007. Micron manufactures its sensors against purchase orders from electrode manufacturers. The Company is aware of approximately 20 significant manufacturers of disposable snap type, radio translucent and pre-wired electrodes worldwide. Micron sells its sensors to most of these manufacturers. Sales backlog is not material to Micron’s sensor business due to the method of ordering employed by its customer base in this competitive industry. Customers generally purchase on a single purchase order basis without long-term commitments. The majority of the NEM and MIT divisions’ customers for injection molded thermoplastic products are from the medical equipment, medical device and defense industries. From single use medical or defense consumable products to equipment components, the engineered production services provide quality design and production capacity which exceed our customers’ manufacturing requirements. Certain customers require that an inventory of their products be maintained at all times to enable just in time delivery schedules. A commitment from customers is required by NEM and MIT to maintain the higher level of finished goods inventory and raw material required for their products. These agreements allow for a more flexible manufacturing schedule with longer more cost effective production cycles. NEM’s primary target customer is a medical manufacturer or development company with a need for complex custom injection molded components. MIT’s primary target customer is a defense or medical manufacturer or development company with a need for complete product life cycle management from design to full production preferably combining multiple manufacturing technologies such as plastic injection molding, metalworking, assembly, and packaging. Windows® is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation 1 AHA/ACC/ESC Policy Statement: "Standards for the Analysis of Ventricular Late Potentials Using High Resolution or Signal-Averaged Electrocardiography: A Statement by a Task Force Committee of the European Society of Cardiology, the American Heart Association and the American College of Cardiology. JACC Vol. 17, No. 5, April 1991:999-1006 The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the approximate consolidated revenues and percentages of revenues derived from the sales of all of the Company's products in its geographic markets: Revenues for the Years Ended December 31, 2008 % 2007 % United States $ 13,290,098 59 $ 10,824,992 55 Canada 5,118,913 23 5,426,042 28 Europe 3,091,326 14 2,496,012 13 Pacific Rim 426,764 2 335,592 2 Other 555,118 2 405,124 2 Total $ 22,482,219 100 $ 19,487,762 100 While some risks exist in foreign markets, the vast majority of the Company’s customers are based in historically stable markets. To reduce the risks associated with foreign shipment and currency exchange fluctuations, the title to most of our products are transferred to our customers when shipped, and payment is required in U.S. Dollars. To help offset the risk from fluctuations in the market price of silver, sensor customers have generally been subject to a silver surcharge or discount based on the market price of silver at the time of shipment. The Company is sensitive to the impact of recent increases in silver cost, and continues to explore options with our customers to help mitigate the resulting increases in surcharges. Marketing and Competition Micron sells its sensors to large, sophisticated OEM manufacturers of disposable snap type and radio translucent ECG electrodes who compete internationally in the electrode market against other OEM manufacturers as well as manufacturers of tab-type electrodes. The Company has one major domestic competitor in the sensor market along with an increasing number of minor competitors worldwide. The sensor and snap market is extremely price sensitive and barriers to entry are relatively low. The Company competes with respect to its sensor products on the basis of pricing, technical capabilities, quality of service and ability to meet customer requirements. With no import restrictions, the Company’s foreign competitors with excess capacity can be expected to expand sales in the U.S. In addition, many of the major OEM customers, although not currently manufacturing silver-silver chloride sensors, have the ability to do so with modest investment. The Company markets Micron and its NEM division as a highly specialized custom injection thermoplastic molder to new and existing customers. The Company believes it competes effectively based on its expertise in low cost manufacturing of high volume precision products. The complex medical products produced by the NEM division have expanded our existing customer base and extensively diversified the product mix. It is our intention to continue these efforts to market to the expanded customer base and further diversify our product offerings. Global competition creates a highly competitive environment. To meet this challenge, the NEM and MIT divisions focus their product development efforts on complex close tolerance products not readily outsourced to offshore manufacturing. Management is currently pursuing licensing of the SAECG products to original equipment manufacturers for integration into existing cardio diagnostic equipment. As previously stated, the SAECG product is currently used in a National Institutes for Health (“NIH”) funded investigation into “Risk Stratification in MADIT II Type Patients”. At the completion of this study and assuming favorable study results, we intend to establish multiple licensing contracts with original equipment manufacturers for this product. Product Suppliers and Manufacturing Micron manufactures its sensors at its Fitchburg, Massachusetts facility employing a proprietary non-patented multi-step process. All employees sign confidentiality agreements to protect this proprietary process. The raw materials used by Micron are plastic resins used to mold the substrates and silver-silver chloride chemical solutions for plating the molded plastic substrates. Both the resins and the chemicals involved in the silver-silver chloride process are available in adequate supply from multiple commodity sources. As insulation against unanticipated price increases, some resins and chemicals used in the production of sensors are purchased in large quantities to lower or stabilize prices. Resins used by the custom molding division are purchased for an individual customer order, with most increases in resin costs passed on to the customer as orders are acknowledged. Because the customer order determines the quantity of material required, customers may, and have, guaranteed the purchase of specific large quantities of product which allows the division to purchase raw material at a more favorable cost thereby lowering the final cost to the customer. The metal alloys used by the MIT division in its products are subject to the same customer order limitations, and prices are fixed as the customer guarantees an order. Micron distributes medical grade nickel-plated brass and stainless steel snap fasteners purchased from multiple domestic and international sources. Micron buys these snaps in bulk, performs additional quality assurance tests, and stocks inventory to facilitate just-in-time shipments to its customers. This business segment has decreased significantly in revenue as price pressure has forced metal snap customers to buy direct from the manufacturer to remain competitive. The Company’s 116,000 square foot manufacturing facilities are ISO 9001 certified. Micron’s molding capacity ranges from 15 to 300 tons and includes a class 10,000 clean room used for processes sensitive to environmental particulates. In addition, this facility includes a new climate-controlled space for the manufacture of metal medical devices utilizing the latest in 5-axis CNC technology. Inventory Requirements Our larger customers benefit from our ability to maintain an inventory of standard sensors and snaps. This inventory policy allows for predictable and planned production resulting in cost efficiencies that we endeavor to pass on to our customers. Custom molded product is manufactured on an order by order basis. Finished goods inventory is product made in advance of an acknowledged sales order, part of an annual blanket order quantity, or for a specific safety stock requested by the customer. Research and Development ART's research and development efforts focus primarily on maintaining the software library in the SAECG product lines in a compatible platform. Although base development work on Predictor 7 has been completed, the Company continues to provide technical support to the National Institutes of Health’s research project utilizing ART’s software. Included in this expense is development work to verify the integrity of the analytical algorithms, and improve the stability of the software on various platforms. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, ART had research and development expenses of approximately $69,779 and $38,900, respectively. In 2008 and 2007, Micron’s research and development efforts resulted in $250,261 and $73,500 of expense. These efforts include the development of a unique process to eliminate certain hazardous materials from our manufacturing processes. The 2008 expense included $52,000 for equipment tested in a process improvement project for the sensor product line as well as the impairment of equipment used for final product testing. . Patents and Proprietary Technology ART acquired three patents related to time and frequency domain analysis of electrocardiogram signals in 1993. The technologies are utilized in the current version of Predictorâ 7. ART acquired U.S. Patent No. 5,117,833 entitled “Bi-Spectral Filtering of Electrocardiogram Signals to Determine Selected QRS Potentials,” (the “Bi-Spec Patent”) which expires in 2009. ART also acquired additional patents, which cover the spectral-temporal, mapping post-processing software packages. In March 1997, the U.S. Patent Office granted United States Patent No. 5,609,158 entitled “Apparatus and Method for Predicting Cardiac Arrhythmia, by Detection of Micropotentials and Analysis of all ECG Segments and Intervals” which covers a frequency domain analysis technique for SAECG data. The Company believes that ART's products do not and will not infringe on patents or violate proprietary rights of others. In the event that ART's products infringe patents or proprietary rights of others, ART may be required to modify the design of its products or obtain a license. There can be no assurance that ART will be able to do so in a timely manner upon acceptable terms and conditions. In addition, there can be no assurance that ART will have the financial or other resources necessary to enforce or defend a patent infringement or proprietary rights violation action. Moreover, if ART's products infringe patents or proprietary rights of others, ART could, under certain circumstances, become liable for damages, which could have a material adverse effect on earnings. Micron employs a highly complex, proprietary non-patented multi-step manufacturing process for its silver / silver chloride-plated sensors. To maintain our trade secrets associated with the manufacture of disposable electrode sensors, all employees are required to sign non-disclosure and/or non-competition agreements. Micron uses a patented material in the production of some sensors. Micron paid $4,288 in 2008, and $7,200 in 2007 in royalties associated with this patent. A provisional patent application was filed for a new type of product for the electrode industry. Government Regulation ART’s software products are subject to, and ART believes currently comply with, material clearance and distribution requirements from governmental regulatory authorities, principally the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the European Union (EU) equivalent agency. These agencies promulgate quality system requirements under which a medical device is to be developed, validated and manufactured. The development of the product line will be managed in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. Micron’s sensor elements are components used in medical devices designed and manufactured by original equipment manufacturers. As such, these elements are not required to be listed with regulatory agencies and do not require regulatory clearance for distribution. However, because Micron primarily distributes sensors to manufacturers for use in finished medical devices, Micron exercises as stringent controls over its manufacturing processes and finished products as would be required if the sensors were considered medical devices. The NEM and MIT divisions manufacture parts for invasive medical devices, components for medical equipment, patented disposable medical laboratory products, and patented military applications. Our customers own the product designs and are, therefore, subject to FDA, Department of Defense and EU regulations. While such products are a part of a medical device or other regulated equipment, our customers are the regulated entity for the clearance of those products. NEM and MIT exercise stringent controls over all their manufacturing operations, and comply with any special controls required by their customers. Environmental Regulation Micron’s operations involve use of hazardous and toxic materials, and generate hazardous, toxic and other wastes. Its operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and certain waste products. Although management believes that our safety procedures for using, handling, storing and disposing of such materials comply with these standards required by state and federal laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. Since its inception, Micron has expended significant funds to train its personnel, install waste treatment and recovery equipment and to retain an independent environmental consulting firm to regularly review, monitor and upgrade its air and waste water treatment activities. Management continues to evaluate and test many possible technological advances that reduce or eliminate the need for and use of hazardous materials in our processes. The acquisition of equipment to eliminate a hazardous chemical from the process further emphasizes the commitment to the reduction and elimination of certain hazardous processes. Costs of compliance are not currently material to the Company’s operation. Micron believes that the operation of its manufacturing facility is in compliance with currently applicable safety, health and environmental laws and regulations. Employees As of December 31, 2008, the Company had 81 full-time and 4 part-time employees. The employees of the Company are not represented by a union, and the Company believes its relationship with the employees is satisfactory. Periodic Reporting and Financial Information We have registered our common stock under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and have reporting obligations, including the requirement that we file annual and quarterly reports with the SEC. The public may read and copy materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, on official business days during the hours of 10:00 am to 3:00 pm. You may obtain information about the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risk factors that may affect future operating results. In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered in evaluating the Company and its business. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that the Company does not presently know or currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: · our ability to maintain our current pricing model and/or decrease our cost of sales; · our ability to increase sales of higher margin products; · variations in the mix of products sold; · the level of demand for our products and services and those that we may develop; · volatility in commodity and energy prices and our ability to offset higher costs with price increases; · variability of customer delivery requirements; · continued availability of supplies or materials used in manufacturing at competitive prices; · the amount and timing of investments in capital equipment, sales and marketing, engineering and information technology resources; and · general economic conditions. As a strategic response to changes in the competitive environment, we may from time to time make certain pricing, service, technology or marketing decisions or business or technology acquisitions that could have a material adverse effect on our quarterly and annual results. Due to all of these factors, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts, stockholders and investors in any future period. Large OEM customers can change their demand on short notice, further adding to the unpredictability of our quarterly sales and earnings. Our quarterly results have in the past and may in the future vary due to the lack of dependable long-term demand forecasts from our larger OEM customers. In addition to this risk, many of our OEM customers have the right to change their demand schedule, either up or down, within a relatively short time horizon. These changes may result in us incurring additional working capital costs and causing increased manufacturing expenses due to these short-term fluctuations. In particular, our quarterly operating results have in the past fluctuated as a result of some of the larger OEM customers changing their orders within a fiscal quarter. Our expense levels and inventory, to a large extent, are based on shipment expectations in the quarter. If sales levels fall below these expectations, through a delay in orders or otherwise, operating results are likely to be adversely affected. Although we have tried to lessen our dependency on a few large customers, this is the nature of the OEM customers that we serve and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to materially alter this dependency in the immediate future, if at all. If trade secrets are not kept confidential, the secrets may be used by others to compete against us. Micron relies on unpatented trade secrets to protect its proprietary processes and there are no assurances that others will not independently develop or acquire substantially equivalent technologies or otherwise gain access to our proprietary process. Ultimately the meaningful protection of such unpatented proprietary technology cannot be guaranteed. The Company relies on confidentiality agreements with its employees. Remedies for any breach by a party of these confidentiality agreements may not be adequate to prevent such actions. Failure to maintain trade secret protection, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Dependence on a limited number of customers. In the fiscal years 2008 and 2007, 56% and 52%, respectively of the Company’s revenues were derived from individual customers with 10% or more of the total sales. The loss of any one or more of these customers might have an immediate significant adverse effect on our financial results. In an effort to maintain this customer base, more favorable terms than might otherwise be agreed to could be granted. Currently, the Company generally does not receive purchase volume commitments extending beyond several months. Large corporations can shift focus away from a need for our product with little or no warning. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from the sale of a single product line. In fiscal years 2008 and 2007, the Company derived 42% and 49%, respectively, of its revenues from medical electrode sensors for use in disposable electrodes. While the technology in electrode sensors has been used for many years, there is no assurance that a new patented or unpatented technology might not replace the existing market for disposable electrode sensors. Any substantial technological advance that eliminates our product will have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The Company is subject to stringent environmental regulations. The Company is subject to a variety of federal, state and local requirements governing the protection of the environment. These environmental regulations include those related to the use, storage, handling, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous materials used in or resulting from the Company’s manufacturing processes. Failure to comply with environmental law could subject the Company to substantial liability or force us to significantly change our manufacturing operations. In addition, under some of these laws and regulations, the Company could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if its properties are contaminated, even if it did not cause the contamination. The Company may make acquisitions of companies, products or technologies that may disrupt the business and divert management’s attention, adversely impacting our results of operations and financial condition. The Company may make acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies from time to time. Any acquisitions will require the assimilation of the operations, products and personnel of the acquired businesses and the training and motivation of these individuals. Management may be unable to maintain and improve upon the uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies if the Company fails in this integration. Acquisitions may cause disruptions in operations and divert management’s attention from day-to-day operations, which could impair our relationships with current employees, customers and strategic partners. The Company also may have to, or choose to, incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities for an acquisition could be substantially dilutive to our stockholders’ holdings. In addition, our profitability may suffer because of such acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for other intangible assets. If management is unable to fully integrate acquired businesses, products, technologies or personnel with existing operations, the Company may not receive the intended benefits of such acquisitions. The Company is not currently party to any agreements, written or oral, for the acquisition of any company, product or technology. If the Company is unable to keep up with rapid technological changes, our processes, products or services may become obsolete and unmarketable. The medical device and medical software industries are characterized by technological change over time. Although the Company attempts to expand our technological capabilities in order to remain competitive, discoveries by others may make our processes or products obsolete. If the Company cannot compete effectively in the marketplace, our potential for profitability and financial position will suffer. The Company could become involved in litigation over intellectual property rights. The medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Litigation, which would likely result in substantial cost to us, may be necessary to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us and/or to determine the scope and validity of others' proprietary rights. In particular, our competitors and other third parties hold issued patents and are assumed to hold pending patent applications, which may result in claims of infringement against us or other patent litigation. The Company also may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, which could result in substantial cost, to determine the priority of inventions. A product liability suit could adversely affect our operating results. The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of medical devices of our customers entail the inherent risk of liability claims or product recalls. If our customers are involved in a lawsuit, it is foreseeable that the Company would also be named. Although the Company maintains product liability insurance, coverage may not be adequate. Product liability insurance is expensive, and in the future may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful product liability claim or product recall could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and ability to market product in the future. The Company’s conversion to a new enterprise resource planning solution may not provide expected benefits. We have recently converted substantially all of our operational and financial functions to a new enterprise resource planning ("ERP") software system. The ERP system impacts every aspect of our operations, including production, engineering, finance, and sales. Although we have taken steps we believe are reasonable to ensure a successful conversion of our operations to the ERP system, we can provide no assurances that the conversion and continuous improvement of the system will be successful or that the ERP system will achieve its expected benefits. Failure to achieve a successful conversion or to obtain the expected benefits of the ERP system could have an adverse material effect on us. The Company may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal control over financial reporting and our ability to have those controls attested to by our independent registered public accounting firm. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX 404”), the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 10-K. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements must also attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting as well as the operating effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls. The Company was not subject to these requirements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. We are evaluating our internal control systems in order to allow our management to report on, and our independent auditors attest to, our internal controls, as a required part of our Annual Report on Form 10-K beginning with our report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. While we expended significant resources beginning in the latter part of 2008 to develop the necessary documentation and testing procedures required by SOX 404, there is a risk that we will not comply with all of the requirements imposed thereby. In the event the Company no longer qualifies as a smaller reporting company at the end of 2009, we may be subject to more stringent requirements under SOX 404. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company will receive any required attestation from the independent registered public accounting firm. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we are unable to receive an attestation from the independent registered public accounting firm with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and our ability to obtain equity or debt financing could suffer. 