Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks. Some of these risks are described below and in the documents incorporated by reference, and investors should take these risks into account in evaluating any investment decision involving the Company. This section does not describe all risks applicable to the Company, its industry or business, and it is intended only as a summary of certain material factors. The recent recession and lingering uncertainties about global recovery have negatively affected our customers and our business, and could continue to negatively affect our customers and adversely affect our results of operations The global recession had a significant negative effect on the Company and the markets in which it competes. Continued economic weakness, or a slower than expected recovery, could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company identifies below a number of risks, the effects of which may be exacerbated by an unfavorable economic climate. For example, continued unfavorable global economic and paper industry conditions may increase consolidation and rationalization within the paper industry, further reducing global consumption of paper machine clothing. Reduced consumption of PMC could in turn increase the risk of greater price competition within the PMC industry and greater effort by competitors to gain market share at the expense of the Company. Sales in the Company’s other business segments may also be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions. Weak or unstable economic and paper industry conditions also increase the risk that one or more of our customers could be unable to pay outstanding accounts receivable, whether as the result of bankruptcy or an inability to obtain working capital financing from banks or other lenders. In such a case, we could be forced to write-off such accounts, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and/or liquidity. Furthermore, many of our businesses design and manufacture products that are custom designed for a specific customer application, at a specific location. In the event of a customer liquidity issue, the Company could also be required to write off amounts that are included in inventories. Developments in digital media will continue to adversely affect the demand for certain paper products, which could have an adverse effect on demand for our products The demand for certain grades of paper has weakened in recent years. Trends in advertising, digital information transmission and storage, and the Internet could have further adverse effects on demand for newsprint as well as coated paper, uncoated specialty papers, or other products made by our customers. If these trends were to accelerate, our customers would likely respond with additional reductions of papermaking capacity, which would adversely affect demand for PMC. There are a number of factors inhibiting growth in the industry in which the Company’s Paper Machine Clothing segment competes Significant consolidation and rationalization in the paper industry in recent years reduced global consumption of paper machine clothing. Consolidation and rationalization, and the resulting downward pressure on PMC revenues, could continue in the near term. At the same time, technological advances in paper machine clothing, while contributing to the papermaking efficiency of customers, have in some cases lengthened the useful life of the Company’s products and reduced the number of pieces required to produce the same volume of paper. These factors are resulting in a steady decline in the number of pieces of paper machine clothing, while the average PMC fabric size is increasing. The net effect of these trends is that the rate of any future growth in the specific volume of PMC is likely to be lower than the rate of future growth in paper production. Competitive pricing in the PMC industry has had and could continue to have, an adverse effect on the Company’s net sales and operating income The market for paper machine clothing in recent years has been characterized by increased price competition, especially in Europe, which has negatively affected the Company’s net sales and operating results 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS in recent periods. The Company expects price competition to remain intense in all PMC markets during periods of customer consolidation, plant closures, or when major contracts are being renegotiated. Failure to remain competitive in the industry in which the Company’s Paper Machine Clothing segment does business could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations The industry in which the Company’s Paper Machine Clothing segment does business is very competitive. The Company’s Paper Machine Clothing segment accounted for 68.7%, 67.0%, and 71.0% of the Company’s consolidated net sales in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. While some competitors in this industry tend to compete more on the basis of price, and others attempt to compete more on the basis of technology, both are significant competitive factors in this industry. Failure to maintain or increase the technical performance of the Company’s products in future periods, or to maintain or increase the overall product and service value delivered to customers, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Some of the Company’s competitors in the Paper Machine Clothing segment have the capability to make and sell paper machines and papermaking equipment as well as other engineered fabrics Although customers historically have viewed the purchase of paper machine clothing and the purchase of paper machines as separate purchasing decisions, the ability to coordinate research and development efforts, and to market machines and fabrics together could be perceived as providing a competitive advantage. This underscores the importance of the Company’s ability to maintain the technical competitiveness and value of the Company’s products, and a real or perceived failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Moreover, the Company cannot predict how the nature of competition in this segment may continue to evolve as a result of further consolidation among the Company’s competitors, or consolidation involving the Company’s competitors and other suppliers to the Company’s customers. The loss of a few major customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations Although supply agreements with terms of more than a year are not uncommon in the industry in which the Company’s Paper Machine Clothing segment does business, they do not typically obligate the customer to purchase any products. Therefore, it is common for competitors in this industry to approach customers, offering new products, lower prices, or both, in an attempt to displace the current supplier or suppliers. In addition, a production disruption at one of the Company’s customers in a particular country or region, due to work stoppages, lack of raw materials, or other factors, could have a negative impact on net sales in the Company’s Paper Machine Clothing segment. Although no individual customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated net sales during 2009, the loss of a few major customers, or a substantial decrease in such customers’ purchases from the Company, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company’s recent capital expenditures may not provide the benefit of return on investment The Company had capital expenditures of $38.3 million, $129.5 million, and $149.2 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Additionally, the Company had capitalized software investments of $4.2 million in 2009, $11.5 million in 2008, and $16.0 million in 2007. The investments were part of the Company’s three-year restructuring and performance improvement plan. The Company may not be successful in achieving any of the benefits it hopes to gain from these investments. If the Company is not successful, it could have a negative impact on the Company’s growth strategy, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition to the general risks that the Company already faces outside the U.S., the Company now conducts more of its manufacturing operations in emerging markets than it did in the past, which could involve many uncertainties for the Company The Company currently has manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. In 2009, 62.3% of consolidated net sales were generated by the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries. Operations outside of the U.S. are subject to a 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS number of risks and uncertainties, including risks that governments may impose limitations on the Company’s ability to repatriate funds; governments may impose withholding or other taxes on remittances and other payments to the Company, or the amount of any such taxes may increase; an outbreak or escalation of any insurrection or armed conflict may occur; governments may seek to nationalize the Company’s assets; or governments may impose or increase investment barriers or other restrictions affecting the Company’s business. In addition, emerging markets pose other uncertainties, including the protection of the Company’s intellectual property, pressure on the pricing of the Company’s products, and risks of political instability. The occurrence of any of these conditions could disrupt the Company’s business or prevent it from conducting business in particular countries or regions of the world. A fundamental change in the papermaking process could reduce demand for paper machine clothing The basic papermaking process, while it has undergone dramatic increases in efficiency and speed, has always relied on paper machine clothing. In the event that a paper machine builder or other person were able to develop a commercially viable manner of paper manufacture that did not require paper machine clothing, sales of the Company’s products in this segment could be expected to decline significantly. Conditions in the paper industry have required, and could further require, the Company to reorganize its operations, which could result in significant expense and could pose risks to the Company’s operations The Company has been engaged in significant restructuring of the global operations of the Company’s Paper Machine Clothing segment, including the closing of a number of manufacturing operations in North America, Europe, and Australia. Restructuring activities have included a continuing effort to match the Company’s manufacturing capacity to shifting global demand, and also changes in the Company’s administrative processes to improve efficiency. Future shifting of customer demand, the need to reduce costs, or other factors could cause the Company to determine in the future that additional restructuring steps were required. Restructuring involves risks such as employee work stoppages, slowdowns, or strikes, which can threaten uninterrupted production, maintenance of high product quality, meeting of customers’ delivery deadlines, and maintenance of administrative processes. Increases in output in remaining manufacturing operations can likewise impose stress on these remaining facilities as they undertake the manufacture of greater volume and, in some cases, a greater variety of products. Competitors can be quick to attempt to exploit these situations. Although the Company considers these risks, plans each step of the process carefully, and works to reassure customers who could be affected by any such matters that their requirements will continue to be met, the Company could lose customers and associated revenues if the Company fails to plan properly or if the foregoing tactics are ineffective. The Company may experience supply constraints due to the Company’s reliance on a limited number of suppliers The Company has relied on a number of suppliers of polymer fiber and monofilaments, key raw materials that the Company uses in the manufacture of paper machine clothing. For the Company’s European and Asian production facilities, the Company purchases most of its monofilament from third parties. For the Company’s North American production facilities, the Company currently produces a significant portion of the Company’s own monofilament needs. While the Company has always been able to meet its raw material needs in the past, the limited number of producers of polymer monofilaments creates the potential for disruption in supply. In addition, if the Company’s own monofilament production facility were to shut down or cease production for any reason, including due to natural disaster, labor problems, or otherwise, there is no guarantee that the Company would be able to replace any shortfall. Lack of supply, delivery delays, or quality problems relating to supplied raw materials could harm the Company’s production capacity and make it difficult to supply the Company’s customers with products on time, which could have a negative impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company is exposed to the risk of increased expense resulting from factors such as higher petroleum and energy prices, or increases in health care related costs Polymer monofilaments are ultimately petroleum-based. In recent years, prices for petroleum, petroleum intermediates, and energy have been volatile. Other market forces that influence the cost and availability of intermediates (such as demand and capacity for applications that have the same basic components, such as 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS benzyne or caprolactam; capacity problems in refineries; natural disasters; etc.) are not controlled by the Company. Future increases for petroleum and/or petroleum intermediates could lead to additional increases in or sustained high levels of material costs. Additionally, costs for employee benefits such as healthcare can sharply increase over short periods of time, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Material disruption to one of our significant manufacturing plants could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue As a result of our restructuring, the Company has placed greater reliance on its remaining manufacturing plants. If operations at a significant facility were to be disrupted as a result of equipment failures, natural disasters, work stoppages, power outages, or other reasons, our business, financial conditions, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Interruptions in production could increase costs and delay delivery of units in production. Production capacity limits could cause us to reduce or delay sales efforts until production capacity is available. At December 31, 2009, the Company had outstanding debt totaling $499.2 million. The Company may not be able to repay its outstanding debt in the event that default provisions are triggered due to a breach of loan covenants Existing borrowing agreements contain a number of covenants and financial ratios that the Company is required to satisfy. The most restrictive of these covenants pertain to asset dispositions and prescribed leverage and interest coverage ratios. Any breach of any such covenants or restrictions would result in a default under such agreements that would permit the lenders to declare all borrowings under such agreements to be immediately due and payable and, through cross default provisions, could entitle other lenders to accelerate their loans. In such an event, the Company would need to modify or restructure all or a portion of such indebtedness. In the current economic and financing market, the Company might find it difficult to modify or restructure on attractive terms, or at all, and any modification, restructuring, or refinancing would, in the current environment, likely result in additional fees and higher interest expenses. The Company may incur a substantial amount of additional indebtedness in the future. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had borrowed $308 million under its $460 million revolving credit facility. The Company is currently required to maintain a leverage ratio of not greater than 3.50 to 1.00 under the Credit Agreement and under the Prudential Agreement. Under the Prudential Agreement, the maximum leverage ratio will be reduced to 3.00 to 1.00 on January 1, 2011. The Company is also required to maintain minimum interest coverage of 3.00 to 1.00 under each agreement. As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s leverage ratio under the agreement was 2.07 to 1.00 and the interest coverage ratio was 7.95 to 1.00. The Company may purchase its Common Stock or pay dividends to the extent its leverage ratio remains at or below 3.50 to 1.00, and may make acquisitions for cash provided its leverage ratio would not exceed 3.00 to 1.00 after giving pro forma effect to the acquisition. Any additional indebtedness incurred could increase the risks associated with substantial leverage. These risks include limiting the Company’s ability to make acquisitions or capital expenditures to grow the Company’s business, limiting the Company’s ability to withstand business and economic downturns, limiting the Company’s ability to invest the Company’s operating cash flow in the Company’s business, and limiting the Company’s ability to pay dividends. In addition, any such indebtedness could contain terms that are more restrictive than the Company’s current facilities. Our access to borrowing capacity has been and could continue to be affected by the uncertainty impacting credit markets generally Our ability to access the capital markets to raise funds through the sale of equity or debt securities is subject to various factors, including general economic and/or financial market conditions. As a result of current economic conditions, including turmoil and uncertainty in the capital markets, credit markets remain somewhat constrained, which makes obtaining new capital more challenging and more expensive than before the recession. 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS There can be no assurance that the expected sales growth in the Engineered Composites segment will be Realized Management expects that the Engineered Composites segment will experience significant growth in net sales during the next several years. In order to support this growth, management expects increases in fixed costs and investments, which will likely result in this segment being cash-flow negative through the first half of this decade. Future growth and long-term success in the Engineered Composites segment will depend, in part, on the success of new commercial and military aircraft programs. We are currently working with our customers on projects to supply components for a number of commercial, general aviation, and military aircraft programs. The Company may not be successful in obtaining contracts, or the Company may not be successful in the execution of contracts it obtains. Cancellation, reductions or delays of orders or contracts by our customers on any of these programs could also have a material adverse effect on revenues and earnings in this segment in any period. Sales in the Company’s Albany Door Systems segment depend on capital expenditures by its customers, which may cause the segment to be more vulnerable to economic downturns The Albany Door Systems segment derives most of its revenue from the sale of high-performance doors, particularly to customers in Europe. The purchase of these doors is normally a capital expenditure item for customers; as a result, market opportunities tend to fluctuate with industrial capital spending. The global recession negatively affected 2009 segment sales, especially in Europe. If economic recovery is weak or delayed, sales and earnings in the Albany Door Systems segment would be negatively affected. The Company must successfully maintain and/or upgrade its information technology systems The Company relies on various information technology systems to manage its operations. The Company is currently implementing modifications and upgrades to its systems, including replacing legacy systems with successor systems, making changes to legacy systems, and acquiring new systems with new functionality. For example, the Company began its implementation of the SAP enterprise resource planning system in the fourth quarter of 2006. This implementation subjects the Company to inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and changing these systems, including impairment of the Company’s ability to fulfill customer orders, potential disruption of the internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, demands on management time, and other risks of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems. These systems implementations may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. Any information technology system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and operations. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations The Company operates in many geographic regions of the world, and more than half of the Company’s business is in countries outside the United States. A substantial portion of the Company’s sales is denominated in euros or other foreign currencies. As a result, changes in the relative values of U.S. dollars, euros and such other currencies impact reported net sales and operating income. In some locations, the profitability of transactions is affected by the fact that sales are denominated in a currency different from the currency in which the costs to manufacture and distribute the products are denominated. These sales are typically denominated in U.S. dollars while the manufacturing costs are based mainly on currencies that have in the past strengthened, and may in the future strengthen, against the U.S. dollar. Although the Company may enter into foreign currency or other derivative contracts from time to time in order to mitigate volatility in the Company’s earnings that can be caused by changes in currency exchange rates, these mitigation measures may not be effective. The Company is subject to legal proceedings and legal compliance risks, and has been named as defendant in a large number of suits relating to the actual or alleged exposure to asbestos-containing products We are subject to a variety of legal proceedings. Pending proceedings that the Company determines are material are disclosed in Item 3 — Legal Proceedings of this annual report. Litigation is an inherently 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS unpredictable process and unanticipated negative outcomes are always possible. An adverse outcome in any period could have an adverse impact on the Company’s operating results for that period. We are also subject to a variety of legal compliance risks. While we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs, the global and diverse nature of our operations means that legal compliance risks will continue to exist and related legal proceedings and other contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty, are likely to arise from time to time. Failure to resolve successfully any legal proceedings related to compliance matters could have an adverse impact on our results in any period. A substantial portion of the Company’s assets includes goodwill, and impairment in the value of the Company’s goodwill could adversely affect the Company’s assets and net income Goodwill represented 8.9% and 8.3% of the Company’s total assets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In 2008, non-cash charges of $72.3 million were recorded for impairment of goodwill, which was primarily due to adverse financial market conditions that caused a significant decrease in the market multiples and increase in the discount rates used in the impairment analysis. The Company reviews goodwill and other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events such as significant changes in the business climate, plant closures, changes in product offerings, or other circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The Company performs a test for goodwill impairment at least annually, in the second quarter of each year. If the Company were required to record additional impairment charges in future periods, it would have the effect of decreasing the Company’s earnings (or increasing the Company’s losses), and the Company’s stock price could decline as a result. Changes in performance of pension plan assets and assumptions used to estimate the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit costs and liabilities could adversely affect the Company’s liabilities and net income The Company has pension and postretirement benefit costs and liabilities that are developed from actuarial valuations. As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s liabilities under its defined benefit pension and postretirement retirement welfare plans exceeded plan assets by $184.1 million. The Company currently expects 2010 employer contributions under those plans to be approximately $12.3 million. Inherent in these valuations are key assumptions, including discount rates and return on plan assets, which are updated on an annual basis. The Company is required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. Changes in the related pension and postretirement benefit costs or credits may occur in the future due to changes in actual performance of pension plan investments and the assumptions used in the valuations. The amount of annual pension plan funding and annual expense is subject to many variables, including the investment return on pension plan assets and interest rates. Weakness in investment returns and low interest rates could result in higher benefit plan expense and the need to make greater pension plan contributions in future years. Failure to retain and recruit qualified technical personnel may hinder the Company’s growth The Company competes for qualified personnel in all of its business segments, and in each region of the world. The Company’s continued success in developing technological improvements and new applications of its products depends on the Company’s ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. If the Company is unable to attract and retain qualified technical personnel with adequate skills and expertise, the Company’s growth may be hindered and the Company’s development programs may be delayed or aborted. The Company’s success is dependent upon its management and employees The Company’s success is dependent upon its management and employees. The loss of key employees or any failure to recruit and train needed managerial, sales and technical personnel, could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company may not be able to successfully integrate acquisitions into the Company’s operations and/or the expected benefits of such acquisitions may not be realized The Company’s growth strategy may involve the acquisition of one or more businesses. Any such acquisition could involve numerous risks, which may include difficulty in assimilating the operations, 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS technologies, products, and key employees of the acquired businesses; the Company’s inability to maintain the existing customers of the acquired businesses or succeed in selling the products or services of the acquired businesses to the Company’s existing customers; a diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; the Company’s entry into markets in which competitors have a better-established market position than the businesses the Company acquires; the incurrence of significant expenses in completing the acquisitions; and the assumption of significant liabilities, some of which may be unknown at the time of the acquisitions. The Company’s inability to execute any acquisitions or integrate acquired businesses successfully could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Changes in or interpretations of accounting principles could result in unfavorable accounting changes We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles, such as the future potential change to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), can have a significant effect on our reported results and could also retroactively affect previously reported activity. Changes in or interpretations of tax rules, structures, country profitability mix and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates We are a United States-based multinational company subject to tax in the United States and foreign tax jurisdictions. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates, or tax policies of the countries in which we operate, could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in or interpretation of tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business, structural changes in the Company’s businesses, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in countries with low statutory tax rates, by lapses of the availability of the U.S. research and development tax credit, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. The Company has substantial deferred tax assets that could become impaired and result in a charge to earnings The Company has a net deferred tax asset in several tax jurisdictions, including a U.S. asset of approximately $85,000,000 at December 31, 2009. The Company has incurred a cumulative loss in the U.S. over the three-year period ending December 31, 2009. The cumulative loss resulted from restructuring expenses from the three-year restructuring plan and a large write-off in 2008 related to the bankruptcy of Eclipse, a customer of the Engineered Composites segment, as well as an impairment of U.S. goodwill. Realization of this and other deferred tax assets is dependent upon many factors, including generation of future income in specific countries. Lower than expected operating results, organizational changes, or changes in tax laws could result in those deferred tax assets becoming impaired, thus resulting in a charge to earnings. The Company’s insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover other significant risk exposures In addition to asbestos-related claims, the Company may be exposed to other liabilities related to the products and services we provide. The Engineered Composites segment is engaged in designing, developing, and manufacturing components for commercial jet aircraft and defense and technology systems and products. The Company expects this portion of the business to grow in future periods. Although the Company maintains insurance for the risks associated with this business, there can be no assurance that the amount of our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities. In addition, there can be no assurance that insurance coverage will continue to be available to the Company in the future at a cost that is acceptable. Any material liability not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Climate Change Although the Company has not determined that existing or pending laws and regulations related to the environment are reasonably likely to have a material effect on its financial condition or results of operation, it is possible that various proposed legislative or regulatory initiatives related to climate change — such as cap-and-trade systems, increased limits on emissions of greenhouse gases, or other measures — could in the future 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS have a material impact on customers in each of our segments. For example, customers in the paper industry could be required to incur greater costs in order to comply with such initiatives, which could have an adverse impact on their profitability or viability. This could in turn lead to further changes in the structure of the paper industry that could reduce demand for our products. The Company also relies on electric power provided by public utilities to operate its facilities. Any increased costs experienced by such providers could be passed along to the Company and other power consumers in the form of higher rates, which could have a negative impact on our profitability. The price of our Class A common stock historically has been volatile. The market price for our Class A common stock has varied between a high of $22.87 and a low of $5.05 during 2009. This volatility may make it difficult for holders to resell our common stock, and the sale of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock could adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock. Our stock price is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to significant price and volume fluctuations in response to market and other factors, including the other risk factors disclosed in this report. The Standish family has a significant influence on our company and could prevent transactions that might be in the best interests of our other stockholders As of June 30, 2009, J. Spencer Standish and related persons (including Christine L. Standish and John C. Standish, both directors of the Company) and Thomas R. Beecher, Jr., as sole trustee of trusts for the benefit of descendants of J. Spencer Standish, held in the aggregate shares entitling them to cast approximately 54% of the combined votes entitled to be cast by all stockholders of the Company. The Standish family has significant influence over the management and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The Standish family currently has, in the aggregate, sufficient voting power to elect all of our directors and determine the outcome of any shareholder action requiring a majority vote. This could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or a merger, consolidation or other business combination at a premium price, even though it might be in the best interest of our other stockholders. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the Corporate Governance Rules of the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) and qualify for, and rely on, certain exemptions from corporate governance requirements applicable to other listed companies As a result of the greater than 50% voting power of the Standish family described above, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the rules of the NYSE. Therefore, we are not required to comply with certain corporate governance rules that would otherwise apply to us as a listed company on the NYSE. Specifically, we have elected to avail ourselves of the provision exempting a controlled company from the requirement that the Board of Directors include a majority of “independent” directors (as defined by the rules of the NYSE) and the requirement that the Compensation and Governance Committees each be composed entirely of “independent” directors. Should the interests of the Standish family differ from those of other stockholders, the other stockholders would not be afforded such protections as might otherwise exist if our Board of Directors, or these Committees, were controlled by directors who were independent of the Standish family or our management. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 