Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks. Some of these risks are described below and in the documents incorporated by reference, and investors should take these risks into account in evaluating any investment decision involving the Company. This section does not describe all risks applicable to the Company, its industry or business, and it is intended only as a summary of certain material factors. Risks relating to the Company’s business and industry There are a number of factors inhibiting growth in the industry in which the Company’s Paper Machine Clothing segment competes Significant consolidation and rationalization in the paper industry in recent years reduced global consumption of paper machine clothing. Management anticipates consolidation and rationalization, and the resulting downward pressure on PMC revenues, to continue in the near term. At the same time, technological advances in paper machine clothing, while contributing to the papermaking efficiency of customers, have in some cases lengthened the useful life of the Company’s products and reduced the number of pieces required to produce the same volume of paper. These factors are resulting in a steady decline in the number of pieces of paper machine clothing, while the average PMC fabric size is increasing. The net effect of these trends is that the specific volume of paper machine clothing consumption (measured in kilograms or square meters) has been increasing at a rate of approximately 1% per year over the past several years. The Company’s strategy for dealing with these trends is to strengthen its market share in the mature markets of North America and Europe, while positioning itself to expand in the rapidly growing markets of Asia and South America. In addition, management continues to pursue cost-saving and process improvement opportunities to further improve operating efficiency. If, however, these strategies are not successful in overcoming these trends in future periods, or if the Company fails to develop other successful strategies to address them, the Company’s net sales and operating income could be adversely affected. Competitive pricing in the PMC industry has and could continue to have an adverse effect on the Company’s net sales and operating income During 2006 and 2007, the market for paper machine clothing in Europe was characterized by increased price competition which negatively affected the Company’s net sales and operating results. The Company expects price competition to remain intense in all PMC markets, especially during periods of customer consolidation and plant closures. The Company’s strategy for dealing with this risk is to continue to focus on providing solutions for customers through new products and services, and to restructure its operations, improve its processes and reduce costs within this segment. In 2006, the Company reorganized its PMC research and product development function and priorities, thereby enhancing its ability to provide more added-value products to market faster. Also in 2006, the Company initiated an intense program of manufacturing restructuring, cost-saving and process improvement initiatives, combined with investments in new capacity in Asia and Latin America, to reduce costs, improve operating efficiency, and further align production capacity to match shifting global demand. While the Company is hopeful that this strategy will overcome the negative impact of this risk on revenues and operating income within this segment, the Company may not succeed as hoped, which could have an adverse impact on profitability. Failure to remain competitive in the industry in which the Company’s Paper Machine Clothing segment does business could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations The industry in which the Company’s Paper Machine Clothing segment does business is very competitive. The Company’s Paper Machine Clothing segment accounted for 69.9%, 72.9%, and 74.9% of the Company’s consolidated net sales in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. While some competitors in this industry tend to compete more on the basis of price, and others attempt to compete more on the basis of technology, both are significant competitive factors in this industry. The Company is focusing on continuous improvement in the technical performance of the Company’s products and services in order to deliver greater value to customers than 25 the Company’s competitors. At the same time, the Company is undergoing a comprehensive restructuring to achieve fundamentally lower costs. During the past three years, the Company has spent an average of 3% of the Company’s consolidated net sales on product engineering and research and development, and the Company expects to spend similar amounts in future periods. Failure to maintain or increase the technical performance of the Company’s products in future periods, or to maintain or increase the overall product and service value delivered to customers, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. One of the Company’s competitors in the Paper Machine Clothing segment has the capability to make and sell paper machines and papermaking equipment as well as other engineered fabrics While customers historically have viewed the purchase of paper machine clothing and the purchase of paper machines as separate purchasing decisions, the ability to coordinate research and development efforts, and to market machines and fabrics together could be perceived as providing a competitive advantage. This underscores the importance of the Company’s ability to maintain the technical competitiveness and value of the Company’s products, and a real or perceived failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Moreover, the Company cannot predict how the nature of competition in this segment may continue to evolve as a result of further consolidation among the Company’s competitors, or consolidation involving the Company’s competitors and other suppliers to the Company’s customers. The loss of a few major customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations While supply agreements with terms of more than a year are not uncommon in the industry in which the Company’s Paper Machine Clothing segment does business, they do not typically obligate the customer to purchase any products. Therefore, it is common for competitors in this industry to approach customers, offering new products, lower prices, or both, in an attempt to displace the current supplier or suppliers. In addition, a production disruption at one of the Company’s customers in a particular country or region, due to work stoppages, lack of raw materials, or other factors, could have a negative impact on net sales in the Company’s Paper Machine Clothing segment. While no individual customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated net sales during 2007, the loss of a few major customers, or a substantial decrease in such customers’ purchases from the Company, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company’s current and future capital expenditures and other expenses may not provide the benefit of return on investment In January 2006, the Company announced a major strategic investment program for paper machine clothing growth that included the construction of a new paper machine clothing manufacturing facility in China, additional forming fabric capacity in Korea and Brazil, and additional dryer fabric capacity in the Company’s existing plant in Panyu, China. The new facility in China will serve as the headquarters of the Company’s Pacific Business Corridor and will initially house world-class manufacturing operations for press fabrics. The past several years have seen the closure of paper mills in North America and Europe, while new papermaking capacity has been added in Asia and Latin America. During this same period, the Company closed and consolidated manufacturing facilities in North America and Europe. The Company expects to continue to make investments in regions of the world, including Asia and Latin America, where the Company anticipates growth. The Company had capital expenditures of $149.2 million, $84.5 million, and $43.3 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. The Company may not be successful in achieving any of the benefits it hopes to gain from these investments. If the Company is not successful, it could have a negative impact on the Company’s growth strategy, financial condition, and results of operations. 26 In addition to the general risks that the Company already faces outside the U.S., the Company is conducting a greater part of its manufacturing operations in emerging markets in the future, which could involve many uncertainties for the Company As part of the Company’s growth strategy, the Company plans to continue to expand its operations, particularly in Asia. The Company currently has manufacturing facilities operations outside the U.S. In 2007, 65.3% of consolidated net sales were generated by the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries. Operations outside of the U.S. are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including risks that governments may impose limitations on the Company’s ability to repatriate funds; governments may impose withholding or other taxes on remittances and other payments to the Company, or the amount of any such taxes may increase; an outbreak or escalation of any insurrection or armed conflict may occur; governments may seek to nationalize the Company’s assets; or governments may impose or increase investment barriers or other restrictions affecting the Company’s business. In addition, emerging markets pose other uncertainties, including the protection of the Company’s intellectual property, pressure on the pricing of the Company’s products, and risks of political instability. The occurrence of any of these conditions could disrupt the Company’s business or prevent it from conducting business in particular countries or regions of the world. A fundamental change in the papermaking process could reduce demand for paper machine clothing The basic papermaking process, while it has undergone dramatic increases in efficiency and speed, has always relied on paper machine clothing. In the event that a paper machine builder or other person were able to develop a commercially viable manner of paper manufacture that did not require paper machine clothing, sales of the Company’s products in this segment could be expected to decline significantly. Conditions in the paper industry have required and could further require, the Company to reorganize its operations, which could result in significant expense and could pose risks to the Company’s operations The Company is engaged in significant restructuring of the global operations of the Company’s Paper Machine Clothing segment, including the closing of a number of manufacturing facilities in the United States and Europe. Restructuring activities have included a continuing effort to match the Company’s manufacturing capacity to shifting global demand and also changes in the Company’s administrative processes to improve efficiency. Future shifting of customer demand, the need to reduce costs to increase or even maintain profitability, or other factors could cause the Company to determine in the future that additional restructuring steps are required. The Company may also need to incur additional costs in the future if the Company needs to add employees following any such restructuring. Restructuring involves risks such as employee work stoppages, slowdowns, or strikes, which can threaten uninterrupted production, maintenance of high product quality, meeting of customers’ delivery deadlines and maintenance of administrative processes. Increases in output in remaining manufacturing operations can likewise impose stress on these remaining facilities as they undertake the manufacture of greater volume and, in some cases, a greater variety of products. Competitors can be quick to attempt to exploit these situations. Although the Company considers these risks, plans each step of the process carefully, and works to reassure customers who could be affected by any such matters that their requirements will continue to be met, the Company could lose customers and associated revenues if the Company fails to plan properly or if the foregoing tactics are ineffective. The Company may incur substantially more debt, which could restrict the Company’s ability to pay dividends or make other distributions, among other restrictions The Company may incur a substantial amount of additional indebtedness in the future. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had borrowed $116 million under its $460 million credit facility. Under this facility, the Company must maintain a leverage ratio (as defined in the agreement) of not greater than 3.50 to 1.00, and an interest coverage ratio (as defined in the agreement) of at least 3.00 to 1.00. As of December 31, 2007, the Company’s leverage ratio was 2.49 to 1.00 and its interest coverage ratio was 8.60 to 1.00. The Company may not purchase its Class A common stock or pay dividends unless the Company’s leverage ratio remains at or below 3.50 to 1.00 and may not make acquisitions if the Company’s leverage ratio would exceed 3.50 to 1.00 after giving pro forma 27 effect to the acquisition. Based on the maximum leverage ratio permitted under these facilities, and the Company’s consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the agreement) for 2007, the Company currently could incur an additional $147 million of indebtedness. Any additional indebtedness incurred could increase the risks associated with substantial leverage. These risks include limiting the Company’s ability to make acquisitions or capital expenditures to grow the Company’s business, limiting the Company’s ability to withstand business and economic downturns, limiting the Company’s ability to invest the Company’s operating cash flow in the Company’s business, and limiting the Company’s ability to pay dividends. In addition, any such indebtedness could contain terms that are more restrictive than the Company’s current facilities. There can be no assurance that the growth in sales in the Applied Technologies segment will be continued The Applied Technologies segment has experienced significant growth in net sales during the last few years, due both to the introduction of new products and growth in demand and application for previously existing products. While the Company continues to make investments to grow the Applied Technologies segment, there can be no assurance that the growth in sales enjoyed during the last few years will continue. The long-term growth prospects for the Engineered Composites business is highly dependent upon the Company’s ability to secure new development contracts with major aerospace companies, and to perform well in the contracts that are secured. The Company may not be able to successfully integrate acquisitions into the Company’s operations and/or the expected benefits of such acquisitions may not be realized The Company’s growth strategy, particularly in the Applied Technologies and Albany Doors segments, may involve the acquisition of one or more businesses. Any such acquisition could involve numerous risks, which may include difficulty in assimilating the operations, technologies, products, and key employees of the acquired businesses; the Company’s inability to maintain the existing customers of the acquired businesses or succeed in selling the products or services of the acquired businesses to the Company’s existing customers; a diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; the Company’s entry into markets in which competitors have a better-established market position than the businesses the Company acquires; the incurrence of significant expenses in completing the acquisitions; and the assumption of significant liabilities, some of which may be unknown at the time of the acquisitions. The Company’s inability to integrate acquired businesses successfully could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Failure to retain and recruit qualified technical personnel may hinder the Company’s growth The Company competes for qualified personnel in all of its business segments, and in each region of the world. The Company’s continued success in developing technological improvements and new applications of its products depends on the Company’s ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. If the Company is unable to attract and retain qualified technical personnel with adequate skills and expertise, the Company’s growth may be hindered and the Company’s development programs may be delayed or aborted. Sales in the Company’s Albany Door Systems segment depend on capital expenditures of its customers, which may cause the segment to be more vulnerable to economic downturns The Albany Door Systems segment derives most of its revenue from the sale of high-performance doors, particularly to customers in Europe. The purchase of these doors is normally a capital expenditure item for customers and, as such, market opportunities tend to fluctuate with industrial capital spending. If economic conditions were to weaken, customers may reduce levels of capital expenditures, which could have a negative effect on sales and earnings in the Albany Door Systems segment. Additionally, the large amount of revenue derived from sales and manufacturing outside the United States could cause the reported financial results for the Albany Door Systems segment to be more sensitive to changes in currency rates than the other segments of the Company. 28 The Company may experience supply constraints due to the Company’s reliance on a limited number of suppliers The Company has relied on a number of suppliers of polymer fiber and monofilaments, key raw materials that the Company uses in the manufacture of paper machine clothing. For the Company’s European production facilities, the Company purchases most of its monofilament from third parties. For the Company’s North American and Asian production facilities, the Company currently produces a significant portion of the Company’s own monofilament needs. While the Company has always been able to meet its raw material needs in the past, the limited number of producers of polymer monofilaments creates the potential for disruption in supply. In addition, if the Company’s own monofilament production facility were to shut down or cease production for any reason, including due to natural disaster, labor problems, or otherwise, there is no guarantee that the Company would be able to replace any shortfall. Lack of supply, delivery delays, or quality problems relating to supplied raw materials could harm the Company’s production capacity and make it difficult to supply the Company’s customers with products on time, which could have a negative impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company is exposed to the risk of increased costs because of higher petroleum and energy prices Polymer monofilaments are ultimately petroleum-based. In recent years, prices for petroleum, petroleum intermediates, and energy have increased significantly. This increase has led to a corresponding increase in the Company’s materials costs. Other market forces that influence the cost and availability of intermediates (such as demand and capacity for applications that have the same basic components, such as benzyne or caprolactam; capacity problems in refineries; natural disasters; etc.) are not controlled by the Company. Future increases or sustained high prices for petroleum and/or petroleum intermediates could lead to additional increases in or sustained high levels of material costs, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company must successfully maintain and/or upgrade its information technology systems The Company relies on various information technology systems to manage its operations. The Company is currently implementing modifications and upgrades to its systems, including replacing legacy systems with successor systems, making changes to legacy systems, and acquiring new systems with new functionality. For example, the Company began its implementation of the SAP enterprise resource planning system in the fourth quarter of 2006. This implementation subjects the Company to inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and changing these systems, including impairment of the Company’s ability to fulfill customer orders, potential disruption of the internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, demands on management time and other risks of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems. These systems implementations may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. Any information technology system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and operations. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations The Company operates in many geographic regions of the world, and more than half of the Company’s business is in countries outside the United States. A substantial portion of the Company’s sales is denominated in euros or other foreign currencies. As a result, changes in the relative values of U.S. dollars, euros and such other currencies impact reported net sales and operating income. If the value of the euro or other currencies were to decline relative to the U.S. dollar, the Company’s reported net sales and operating income could decline. In some locations, the profitability of transactions is affected by the fact that sales are denominated in a currency different from the currency in which the costs to manufacture and distribute the products are denominated. These sales are typically denominated in U.S. dollars while the manufacturing costs are based mainly on currencies that have in the past strengthened, and may in the future strengthen, against the U.S. dollar. While the Company may enter into foreign currency or other derivative contracts from time to time in order to mitigate volatility in the Company’s earnings that can be caused by changes in currency exchange rates, these mitigation measures may not be effective. 29 The Company has been named as defendant in suits relating to the actual or alleged exposure to asbestos-containing products As of February 1, 2008, the Company and certain of the Company’s subsidiaries were defending against 18,789 asbestos-related claims in various courts in the United States. The Company’s subsidiary, Brandon Drying Fabrics, Inc., is also a separate defendant with respect to 8,741 of these claims as of February 1, 2009. The Company anticipates that additional claims will be filed against the Company and Brandon in the future but is unable to predict the number and timing of such future claims. While, based on information currently known, the Company does not currently anticipate any material adverse effect relating to the resolution of these asbestos claims in excess of currently existing insurance limits, litigation is inherently uncertain, particularly when the outcome is dependent primarily on determinations of factual matters to be made by juries. Numerous other defendants in asbestos cases, as well as others who claim to have knowledge and expertise on the subject, have found it difficult to anticipate the outcome of asbestos litigation, the volume of future asbestos claims, and the anticipated settlement or judgment values of those claims. Nevertheless, the Company has approximately $130 million in confirmed insurance coverage that should be available with respect to current and future asbestos claims, as well as additional insurance coverage that it should be able to access. The Company’s insurance carrier paid 99% of the Company’s settlement costs to date and a comparable percentage of the Company’s legal costs under a standard reservation of rights. There can be no assurance that current confirmed coverage will be sufficient for all claims to which the Company or Brandon may be subject, or that the Company’s or Brandon’s insurance carriers will not in the future attempt to deny coverage for some or all pending and future asbestos claims. In such an event, the Company might be required to sue the carriers in order to establish coverage, and there can be no assurance that the Company would prevail in such a suit. In addition, with respect to those cases in which the Company has been named a successor-in-interest to Mt. Vernon Mills, Mt. Vernon has to date assumed the defense of these claims. In the future, Mt. Vernon Mills may decide to cease defending these claims or be financially unable to do so. For each of these reasons, there can be no assurance that asbestos litigation will not ultimately have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, or results of operations. Economic conditions affecting the Company or its customers could adversely affect the Company’s net income and cash flows Demand for the Company’s products could be adversely affected by a broad decline in general economic or business conditions. Furthermore, the Company derives a significant portion of its operating income from its PMC operations in North America and Western Europe. If weakening economic conditions impacted the operations of the Company’s customers, especially in those regions, there could be an, adverse impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. A substantial portion of the Company’s assets includes goodwill, and impairment in the value of the Company’s goodwill could adversely affect the Company’s assets and net income As of December 31, 2007, goodwill represented 12.7% of the Company’s total assets. The Company reviews goodwill and other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events such as significant changes in the business climate, plant closures, changes in product offerings, or other circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The Company performs a test for goodwill impairment at least annually, in the second quarter of each year. If the Company is required to record an impairment charge, it will have the effect of decreasing the Company’s earnings (or increasing the Company’s losses), and the Company’s stock price may decline as a result. Changes in assumptions used to estimate the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit costs and liabilities could adversely affect the Company’s liabilities and net income The Company has pension and postretirement benefit costs and liabilities that are developed from actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations are key assumptions, including discount rates and expected return on plan assets, which are updated on an annual basis. The Company is required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. Changes in the related pension and postretirement 30 benefit costs or credits may occur in the future due to changes in the assumptions. The amount of annual pension plan funding and annual expense is subject to many variables, including the investment return on pension plan assets and interest rates. Weakness in investment returns and low interest rates could result in the need to make greater pension plan contributions in future years. The Company’s insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover other significant risk exposures. In addition to asbestos-related claims, the Company may be exposed to other liabilities related to the products and services we provide. A small part of the Applied Technologies business segment relates to designing, developing, and manufacturing components for commercial jet aircraft and defense and technology systems and products. The Company expects this portion of the business to grow in future periods. While the Company maintains insurance for the risks associated with this business, there can be no assurance that the amount of our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities. In addition, there can be no assurance that insurance coverage will continue to be available to the Company in the future at a cost that is acceptable. Any material liability not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 