ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, before making an investment decision, and you should only consider an investment in our common stock if you can afford to sustain the loss of your entire investment. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this report before making an investment decision with regard to our securities. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We are incurring significant obligations in developing the manufacture of forged rolled rings for use in the wind power industry and other industries with no assurance that we can or will be successful in this business. Wind power account for a small percentage of the power generated in the PRC, and our ability to market to this segment is dependent upon both an increased acceptance of wind power as an energy source in the PRC and the acceptance of our products. We are making the financial and manpower commitment in our belief that there will be an increased demand for wind power in China and elsewhere and that the companies that manufacture wind power generation equipment and other equipment that uses our products will purchase our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully develop this business, and our failure to develop the business will have a material adverse effect on our overall financial condition and the results of our operations. We will require additional funds to expand our operations. In connection with any expansion projects for our business, we will incur significant capital and operational expenses. We do not presently have any funding commitments other than our present credit arrangements which we do not believe are sufficient to enable us to expand our business. If we are unable to generate cash flow from operations and obtain necessary bank or other financing to pay for significant capital or operational expenses, we may be unable to finance the growth of our existing business, which may impair our ability to operate profitably. Because of our stock price and the worldwide economic situation, we may not be able to raise any additional funds that we require on favorable terms, if any. The failure to obtain necessary financing may impair our ability to expanse or business and remain profitable. We rely on short term financing to fund our operations. We have historically financed our operations through short-term bank loans, which have been refinanced upon maturity. At December 31, 2014, we had outstanding short-term bank loans of approximately $3.1 million. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain alternative financing in the event that our lenders did not renew our short-term loans. Our failure to have the bank loans refinanced could materially impair our ability to operate our business. A decrease in supply or increase in cost of the materials used in our products could harm our profitability. Any restrictions on the supply or the increase in the cost of the materials used by us in manufacturing our products, especially steel, could significantly reduce our profit margins. Efforts to mitigate restrictions on the supply or price increases of materials by entering into long-term purchase agreements, by implementing productivity improvements or by passing cost increases on to our customers may not be successful. Increased competition may affect our ability to pass on to our customers’ price increases in raw materials, particularly, stainless steel, which is our principal raw material for all of our products. Our profitability depends largely on the price and continuity of supply of the materials used in the manufacture of our products, which in many instances are supplied by a limited number of sources. Inflationary and competitive pressures may affect our ability to maintain our margins. In recent years, raw materials, including steel, which is our principal raw material, have been subject to significant price increases. The Chinese government has expressed concern about inflation in certain segments of the economy. We cannot predict the extent or effect of inflationary pressures with respect to steel and steel products. To the extent that we have to raise our prices to maintain our margins, our sales may suffer. If we are unable to raise prices, either because of competitive factors or customer resistance, our margins and net income may suffer. We cannot assure you that our business will not be impaired by inflation. 13 The nature of our products creates the possibility of significant product liability and warranty claims, which could harm our business. Customers use some of our products in potentially hazardous applications that can cause injury or loss of life and damage to property, equipment or the environment. In addition, some of our products are integral to the production process for some end-users and any failure of our products could result in a suspension of operations. We cannot be certain that our products will be completely free from defects. Moreover, we do not have any product liability insurance and may not have adequate resources to satisfy a judgment in the event of a successful claim against us. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and require us to make significant payments. If we fail to introduce enhancements to our existing products or to keep abreast of technological changes in our markets, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Although certain technologies in the industries that we occupy are well established, we believe our future success depends in part on our ability to enhance our existing products and develop new products in order to continue to meet customer demands. In particular, the next generation of wind turbines requires components that are stronger than the present generation. Although we are seeking to address these requirements with our forged products, our failure to introduce and develop a market for these and any other new or enhanced products on a timely and cost-competitive basis, as well as the development of processes that make our existing technologies or products obsolete, could harm our business and results of operations. Because we face intense competition from other companies for both of our operating segments, many of which have greater resources than we do, we may not be able to compete successfully and we may lose or be unable to gain market share. The markets for products in both of our business segments are intensely competitive. Many of our competitors have established more prominent market positions, and if we fail to attract and retain customers and establish successful distribution networks in our target markets for our products, we will be unable to increase our sales. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. Our competitors’ greater size in some cases provides them with a competitive advantage with respect to manufacturing costs because of their economies of scale and their ability to purchase raw materials at lower prices, as well as securing supplies at times of shortages. Many of our competitors also have greater brand name recognition, more established distribution networks and larger customer bases. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential distributors and have extensive knowledge of our target markets. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the research, development, promotion and sale of their products or respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions than we can. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or new competitors may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Further, from time to time, we have had to adjust the prices of our products to remain competitive. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages and fines. As our manufacturing processes generate noise, wastewater, gaseous and other industrial wastes, we are required to comply with all national and local regulations regarding protection of the environment. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental regulations, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. We use, generate and discharge toxic, volatile and otherwise hazardous chemicals and wastes in our activities. Any failure by us to control the use of or to restrict adequately, the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions in our business operations. We do not have insurance to cover any liability which we may incur as a result of personal injury or property damages resulting from emissions of toxic material into the environment. Our ISO certifications expire in 2015, and our failure to maintain these certifications could impair our ability to obtain customers for our products. Since our ISO certifications expire in 2015, we need to complete the renewal process in order to continue to maintain these certifications. The renewal process requires an inspection of our facilities by an independent inspection company. Our failure to maintain, or any delay in obtaining, a continuation of our ISO certification could impair our ability to attract business which could affect both our revenue and our gross margin. 14 Our products are subject to PRC regulations, which may materially adversely affect our business. Government regulations influence the design, components or operation of our products. New regulations and changes to current regulations are always possible and, in some jurisdictions, regulations may be introduced with little or no time to bring related products into compliance with these regulations. Our failure to comply with these regulations may restrict our ability to sell our products in the PRC. In addition, these regulations may increase our cost of supplying the products by forcing us to redesign existing products or to use more expensive designs or components. In these cases, we may experience unexpected disruptions in our ability to supply customers with products, or we may incur unexpected costs or operational complexities to bring products into compliance. This could have an adverse effect on our revenues, gross profit margins and results of operations and increase the volatility of our financial results. The success of our businesses will depend on our ability to effectively develop and implement strategic business initiatives. In connection with the development and implementation of our growth plans, we will incur additional operating expenses and capital expenditures. The development and implementation of these plans also requires management to divert a portion of its time from day-to-day operations. These expenses and diversions could have a significant impact on our operations and profitability, particularly if our plans for any new initiative prove to be unsuccessful. Moreover, if we are unable to implement any of our plans in a timely manner, or if those plans turn out to be ineffective or are executed improperly, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. Failure to successfully reduce our production costs may adversely affect our financial results. A significant portion of our strategy relies upon our ability to successfully rationalize and improve the efficiency of our operations. If we are not able to implement cost reduction measures, especially in times of either an economic downturn or inflationary pressures, or if these efforts do not generate the level of cost savings that we expect going forward or result in higher than expected costs, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If we are unable to make necessary capital investments or respond to pricing pressures, our business may be harmed. In order to remain competitive, we need to invest in product development, manufacturing, customer service and support, and marketing. We do not have any significant research and development activities. We may not have available sufficient financial or other resources to continue to make investments necessary to maintain our competitive position. Currently, our research and development is not significant. Unforeseen or recurring operational problems at our facilities may cause significant lost production, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our manufacturing processes could be affected by operational problems that could impair our production capability. Our facilities contain complex and sophisticated machines that are used in our manufacturing process. Disruptions at our facilities could be caused by maintenance outages; prolonged power failures or reductions; a breakdown, failure or substandard performance of any of our machines; the effect of noncompliance with material environmental requirements or permits; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including railroad tracks, bridges, tunnels or roads; fires, floods, earthquakes or other catastrophic disasters; labor difficulties; or other operational problems. Any prolonged disruption in operations at our facilities could cause significant lost production, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our officers and directors own a substantial portion of our outstanding common stock, which will enable them to influence many significant corporate actions and in certain circumstances may prevent a change in control that would otherwise be beneficial to our shareholders. As of March 30, 2015, our officers and directors and members of their families beneficially owned approximately 38.1% of our outstanding voting shares. Our by-laws provide that a quorum for action by stockholders is one-third of the outstanding shares. Consequently, these stockholders, acting together, could have a substantial impact on matters requiring the vote of the shareholders, including the election of our directors and most of our corporate actions. This control could delay, defer or prevent others from initiating a potential merger, takeover or other change in our control, even if these actions would benefit our shareholders and us. This control could adversely affect the voting and other rights of our other shareholders and could depress the market price of our common stock. 15 Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and our ability to maintain a skilled labor force, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of our executive officers, especially Mr. Jianhua Wu, our chief executive officer and the chairman of our board of directors. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our executive officers. If one or more of our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. Therefore, our business may be severely disrupted, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. Our chief executive officer is a party to contractual agreements as described elsewhere in our annual report. A significant portion of our business is conducted through the Huayang Companies, which are owned by our chief executive officer and his wife. Approximately 11.5% of our forged rolled rings and related products revenue and all of our dyeing and finishing equipment business is conducted by the Huayang Companies, which are variable interest entities that are owned by our chief executive officer and his wife and whose financial results are included with ours because the Huayang Companies are deemed as variable interest entities and we are the sole beneficiary of their operations. The variable interest entity relationship is derived from a series of agreements between us and our chief executive officer and his wife, as the sole stockholders of the Huayang Companies. Pursuant to these agreements, we are responsible for the operations of the Huayang Companies and receive the benefits of those operations. However, in the event that we have to seek to enforce these agreements, such enforcement would be sought in Chinese courts, and we cannot assure you that we will prevail or that we will be able to obtain the benefits intended by these agreement. Any inability to enforce our rights under these agreements would materially impair our operations, financial position and cash flows. If we are unable to attract, train and retain technical and financial personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain technical and financial personnel. Recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly those with expertise in our industries and in the industries to which we market, are vital to our success. There is substantial competition for qualified technical and financial personnel, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain our technical and financial personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Because our chief financial officer is not a full-time employee, we do not have the same level of financial control which we would have if we had a full-time chief financial officer at our facilities. Our chief financial officer does not work for us on a full-time basis and also serves as chief financial officer of other companies. His primary office is in the United States rather than in China, where our facilities are located. As a result, we do not have the same controls that we would have if our chief financial officer were located at our offices in China and was employed by us on a full-time basis, and our chief executive’s services for other companies may detract from his services for us. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly. We rely primarily on trade secret and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. Nevertheless, these afford only limited protection and the actions we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate and we may not be able to protect our intellectual property under Chinese laws. As a result, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. In addition, policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others and the enforcement of intellectual property rights in China may be difficult. We cannot assure you that the outcome of any litigation will be in our favor. Intellectual property litigation may be costly and may divert management attention as well as expend our other resources away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 16 Implementation of China’s intellectual property-related laws has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in China’s laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Although we have received patents for our new dyeing machines, we cannot assure you that there patents will provide us with adequate protection against infringers or other parties who design around our patents. We do not have business liability or disruption insurance coverage. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. We do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of our resources. You may suffer significant dilution if we raise additional capital. If we need to raise additional capital to expand or continue operations, it may be necessary for us to issue additional equity or convertible debt securities. If we issue equity or convertible debt securities, our net tangible book value per share may decrease, and the percentage ownership of our current stockholders would be diluted, and any equity securities we may issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior or more advantageous to our common stockholders. We may experience major accidents in the course of our operations, which may cause significant property damage and personal injuries. We may experience major accidents in the course of our operations, which may cause significant property damage and personal injuries. Significant industry-related accidents and disasters may cause interruptions to various parts of our operations, or could result in property or environmental damage, increase in operating expenses or loss of revenue. We do not carry any insurance policy covering our capital assets. In accordance with customary practice in China, we do not carry any business interruption insurance or third party liability insurance for personal injury or environmental damage arising from accidents on our property or relating to our operations other than our automobiles. Losses or payments incurred may have a material adverse effect on our operating performance if such losses or payments are not fully insured. Our status as an emerging growth company may result in reduced disclosure obligations. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (which we refer to as the “JOBS Act”), and we are eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting and financial disclosure requirements that are applicable to other public companies, that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, (1) not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), (2) reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and (3) exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We intend to take advantage of these exemptions. Because of the reduced disclosure and because our business is conducted in the PRC, investors may find investing in our common shares less attractive as a result, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, for complying with new or revised accounting standards. As a result, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We elected to opt out of such extended transition period and acknowledge such election is irrevocable pursuant to Section 107 of the JOBS Act. We could remain an emerging growth company for up to five years, or until the earliest of (1) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenues exceed $1 billion, (2) the date that we become a “large accelerated filer” as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act, which would occur if the market value of our ordinary shares that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter and we have been publicly reporting for at least 12 months, or (3) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt during the preceding three-year period. 17 Risks Related to Conducting Business in the PRC PRC laws and regulations governing our businesses and the validity of certain of our contractual arrangements are uncertain. If we are found to be in violation, we could be subject to sanctions. In addition, changes in such PRC laws and regulations may materially and adversely affect our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entities, the Huayang Companies, and its shareholders. We are considered a foreign person or foreign invested enterprise under PRC law. As a result, we are subject to PRC law limitations on foreign ownership of Chinese companies. These laws and regulations are relatively new and may be subject to change, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. The PRC government has broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business and other licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses and permits issued or granted to us by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time by higher regulatory bodies. We cannot predict the effect of the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations on our businesses. We cannot assure you that our current ownership and operating structure would not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws or regulations. As a result, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines, and could be required to restructure our operations or cease to provide certain services. Any of these or similar actions could significantly disrupt our business operations or restrict us from conducting a substantial portion of our business operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The PRC government restricts foreign investment in businesses in China. Accordingly, we operate our business in China through the Huayang Companies and, recently through a wholly-owned subsidiary which is a wholly foreign owned entity known as a WFOE. The Huayang Companies and the subsidiary hold the licenses and approvals necessary to operate our businesses in China. We have contractual arrangements with the Huayang Companies and its shareholders that allow us to substantially control the Huayang Companies. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to enforce these contracts. Although we believe we comply with current PRC regulations, we cannot assure you that the PRC government would agree that these operating arrangements comply with PRC licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. If the PRC government determines that we do not comply with applicable law, it could revoke our business and operating licenses, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, require us to restructure our operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, impose restrictions on our business operations or on our customers, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. There are significant uncertainties under the Draft Foreign Investment Law relating to the status of businesses in China controlled by foreign invested enterprises primarily through contractual arrangements, such as our business. On January 19, 2015, MOFCOM published a draft of the PRC Law on Foreign Investment (Draft for Comment), or the Draft Foreign Investment Law, which is open for public comments until February 17, 2015. At the same time, MOFCOM published an accompanying explanatory note of the Draft Foreign Investment Law, or the Explanatory Note, which contains important information about the Draft Foreign Investment Law, including its drafting philosophy and principles, main content, plans to transition to the new legal regime and treatment of business in China controlled by foreign invested enterprises, or FIEs, primarily through contractual arrangements. The draft Foreign Investment Law utilizes the concept of “actual control” for determining whether an entity is considered to be a foreign-invested enterprise, and defines “control” broadly to include, among other things, voting or board control through contractual arrangements. 18 The draft Foreign Investment Law proposes significant changes to the PRC foreign investment legal regime and may have a material impact on Chinese companies listed or to be listed overseas. The proposed draft Foreign Investment Law is to regulate FIEs the same way as PRC domestic entities, except for those FIEs that operate in industries deemed to be either “restricted” or “prohibited” in a “Negative List.” Because the Negative List has yet to be published, it is unclear whether it will differ from the current list of industries subject to restrictions or prohibitions on foreign investment. The draft Foreign Investment Law also provides that only FIEs operating in industries on the Negative List will require entry clearance and other approvals that are not required of PRC domestic entities. As a result of the entry clearance and approvals, certain FIE’s operating in industries on the Negative List may not be able to continue to conduct their operations through contractual arrangements. It states that entities established in China but controlled by foreign investors will be treated as foreign-invested enterprises, while entities set up outside of China which are controlled by PRC persons or entities, would be treated as domestic enterprises after completion of market entry procedures. There is substantial uncertainty regarding the draft Foreign Investment Law, including, among others, what the actual content of the law will be as well as the adoption and effective date of the final form of the law. While such uncertainty exists, we cannot assure you that the new foreign investment law, when it is adopted and becomes effective, will not have a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business through our contractual arrangements. If the draft Foreign Investment Law is enacted and goes into effect in its current form, if we are deemed to have a non-PRC entity as a controlling shareholder, the provisions regarding control through contractual arrangements could reach our VIE arrangements, and as a result our VIEs could become subject to restrictions on foreign investment, which may materially impact the viability of our current corporate structure and operations. Specifically, we may be required to modify our corporate structure, change our current scope of operations, obtain approvals or face penalties or other additional requirements, compared to entities which do have PRC controlling shareholders. Regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may limit our ability to acquire PRC companies and could adversely affect our business. In July 2014, SAFE promulgated the Circular on Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Administration Over the Overseas Investment and Financing and Roundtrip Investment by Domestic Residents Via Special Purpose Vehicles, or Circular 37, which replaced Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents’ Corporate Financing and Roundtrip Investment through Offshore Special Purpose Vehicles, or Circular 75. Circular 37 requires PRC residents to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct establishment or indirect control of an offshore entity, referred to in Circular 37 as a “special purpose vehicle” for the purpose of holding domestic or offshore assets or interests. Circular 37 further requires amendment to a PRC resident’s registration in the event of any significant changes with respect to the special purpose vehicle, such as an increase or decrease in the capital contributed by PRC individuals, share transfer or exchange, merger, division or other material event. Under these regulations, PRC residents’ failure to comply with specified registration procedures may result in restrictions being imposed on the foreign exchange activities of the relevant PRC entity, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent, as well as restrictions on capital inflows from the offshore entity to the PRC entity, including restrictions on its ability to contribute additional capital to its PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the SAFE registration requirements could result in penalties under PRC law for evasion of foreign exchange regulations. As Circular 37 is newly-issued, it is unclear how these regulations will be interpreted and implemented. In addition, different local SAFE branches may have different views and procedures as to the interpretation and implementation of the SAFE regulations, and it may be difficult for our ultimate shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC residents to provide sufficient supporting documents required by the SAFE or to complete the required registration with the SAFE in a timely manner, or at all. Any failure by any of our shareholders who is a PRC resident, or is controlled by a PRC resident, to comply with relevant requirements under these regulations could subject us to fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government, including restrictions on WFOE’s ability to pay dividends or make distributions to us and on our ability to increase our investment in the WFOE. Although we believe that our agreements relating to our structure are in compliance with current PRC regulations, we cannot assure you that the PRC government would agree that these contractual arrangements comply with PRC licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. 19 If we become directly subject to the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity involving U.S.-listed Chinese companies, we may have to expend significant resources to investigate and resolve the matter which could harm our business operations, stock price and reputation. U.S. public companies that have substantially all of their operations in China, particularly companies like us that have completed so-called reverse acquisition transactions, have been the subject of intense scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity by investors, financial commentators and regulatory agencies, such as the SEC. Much of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity has centered on financial and accounting irregularities and mistakes, a lack of effective internal controls over financial accounting, inadequate corporate governance policies or a lack of adherence thereto and, in many cases, allegations of fraud. As a result of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity, the publicly traded stock of many U.S. listed Chinese companies has sharply decreased in value and, in some cases, has become virtually worthless. Many of these companies are now subject to shareholder lawsuits and SEC enforcement actions and are conducting internal and external investigations into the allegations. It is not clear what effect this sector-wide scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity will have on us, our business and our stock price. If we become the subject of any unfavorable allegations, whether such allegations are proven to be true or untrue, we will have to expend significant resources to investigate such allegations and/or defend our company. This situation will be costly and time consuming and distract our management from developing our growth. If such allegations are not proven to be groundless, we and our business operations will be severely affected and you could sustain a significant decline in the value of our stock. The disclosures in our reports and other filings with the SEC and our other public pronouncements are not subject to the scrutiny of any regulatory bodies in the PRC. We are regulated by the SEC and our reports and other filings with the SEC are subject to SEC review in accordance with the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. Our SEC reports and other disclosure and public pronouncements are not subject to the review or scrutiny of any PRC regulatory authority. For example, the disclosure in our SEC reports and other filings are not subject to the review by China Securities Regulatory Commission, a PRC regulator that is responsible for oversight of the capital markets in China. Accordingly, you should review our SEC reports, filings and our other public pronouncements with the understanding that no local regulator has done any review of us, our SEC reports, other filings or any of our other public pronouncements. Our contractual arrangements with the Huayang Companies and its shareholders may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. Since the law of the PRC limits foreign equity ownership in companies in China, we operate a significant portion of our business through the Huayang Companies. The equity in these companies is owned by our chief executive officer and his wife, and we have no equity ownership interest in the Huayang Companies. We rely on contractual arrangements to control and operate such businesses. These contractual arrangements may not be effective in providing control over the Huayang Companies as direct ownership. For example, the Huayang Companies could fail to take actions required for our businesses despite its contractual obligation to do so. If the Huayang Companies fail to perform under their agreements with us, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements and may have to rely on legal remedies under the law of the PRC, which may not be effective. In addition, we cannot assure you that the Huayang Companies’ shareholders would always act in our best interests. Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. All of our business operations are conducted and all of our revenues are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: ● the amount of government involvement; ● the level of development; ● the growth rate; ● the control of foreign exchange; and ● the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past 20 years, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy, and the worldwide economic downturn has affected China. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. 20 The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the Chinese government could materially and adversely affect our business. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the Chinese government to slow the pace of growth of the Chinese economy could result in decreased capital expenditure by our customers and potential customers, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. Furthermore, in response to the worldwide economic downturn, the Chinese government may seek to increase its control over businesses which could affect our business. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of renewable energy investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our Chinese subsidiaries and affiliates, which are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. China’s legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, Chinese legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and China’s legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We rely on dividends and working capital advances paid by our subsidiaries and VIEs for our cash needs We conduct substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries and variable interest entities. We rely on dividends and working capital advances from our subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay any dividends which we may declare and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends and working capital advances by entities organized in China is subject to limitations. Regulations in China currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Each subsidiary and VIE entity is also required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profit based on China’s accounting standards each year to its general reserves until the accumulated amount of such reserves reach 50% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Our subsidiaries are also required to allocate a portion of their after-tax profits to their staff welfare and bonus funds, which may not be distributed to equity owners except in the event of liquidation. In addition, if our subsidiaries incur debt, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. China’s Unified Corporate Income Tax Law also imposes a withholding income tax of 10% on dividends distributed by a foreign invested enterprise to its immediate holding company outside of China, if such immediate holding company is considered as a non-resident enterprise without any establishment or place within China or if the received dividends have no connection with the establishment or place of such immediate holding company within China, unless such immediate holding company’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The change in value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the Chinese government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in appreciation of Renminbi against U.S. dollar. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the Chinese government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. As a portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in Renminbi, the revaluation in July 2005 and potential future revaluation has and could further increase our costs. Any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition, and the value of, and any of our dividends payable on our ordinary shares in foreign currency terms. 21 Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, our Chinese subsidiaries are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies without prior approval from SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the Chinese government will not take further measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Foreign exchange transactions by our Chinese subsidiaries under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of China’s governmental authorities, including the SAFE. In particular, if a subsidiary borrows foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with the SAFE, and if we finance the subsidiary by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities including the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts. These limitations could affect the ability of our subsidiaries to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. Failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident stockholders to personal liability, limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially adversely affect us. In October 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued the Notice on Relevant Issues in the Foreign Exchange Control over Financing and Return Investment Through Special Purpose Companies by Residents Inside China, generally referred to as Circular 75, which required PRC residents to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or acquiring control over an offshore special purpose company for the purpose of engaging in an equity financing outside of China on the strength of domestic PRC assets originally held by those residents. Internal implementing guidelines issued by SAFE, which became public in June 2007 (known as Notice 106), expanded the reach of Circular 75 by (i) purporting to cover the establishment or acquisition of control by PRC residents of offshore entities which merely acquire “control” over domestic companies or assets, even in the absence of legal ownership; (ii) adding requirements relating to the source of the PRC resident’s funds used to establish or acquire the offshore entity; (iii) covering the use of existing offshore entities for offshore financings; (iv) purporting to cover situations in which an offshore special purpose vehicle establishes a new subsidiary in China or acquires an unrelated company or unrelated assets in China; and (v) making the domestic affiliate of the special purpose vehicle responsible for the accuracy of certain documents which must be filed in connection with any such registration, notably, the business plan which describes the overseas financing and the use of proceeds. Amendments to registrations made under Circular 75 are required in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, mergers and acquisitions, equity investment or creation of any security interest in any assets located in China to guarantee offshore obligations, and Notice 106 makes the offshore special purpose vehicle jointly responsible for these filings. In the case of an special purpose vehicle which was established, and which acquired a related domestic company or assets, before the implementation date of Circular 75, a retroactive SAFE registration was required to have been completed before March 31, 2006; this date was subsequently extended indefinitely by Notice 106, which also required that the registrant establish that all foreign exchange transactions undertaken by the special purpose vehicle and its affiliates were in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with the requirements of Circular 75, as applied by SAFE in accordance with Notice 106, may result in fines and other penalties under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Any such failure could also result in the special purpose vehicle’s affiliates being impeded or prevented from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the special purpose vehicle, or from engaging in other transfers of funds into or out of China. We cannot provide any assurances that their existing registrations have fully complied with, and they have made all necessary amendments to their registration to fully comply with, all applicable registrations or approvals required by Circular 75. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how Circular 75 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and is expected to continue to be highly volatile as well as subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: ● Quarterly variations in our results of operations. ● Announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments. 22 ● Our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis. ● Changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals. ● Changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts. ● Market reaction to problems encountered by other Chinese companies that became public companies in the United States through the reverse merger process. ● Market reaction to reports written by investors about us and about Chinese companies in general. ● Market reaction to the slowdown in the Chinese wind power industry. ● General economic conditions and slow or negative growth of related markets. These broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of our Common Stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Any failure to meet the Nasdaq continued listing requirements may result in our delisting. During 2011, our stock failed to meet the Nasdaq continued listing requirement resulting from our failure to maintain a $1.00 bid price and our failure to maintain a minimum market value of publicly held common stock. In order to maintain our listing on Nasdaq we transferred our listing from the Nasdaq Global Market to the Nasdaq Capital Market, and we effected a one-for-ten reverse split. In the event that our stock price falls below $1.00 per share, we may not be able to maintain our Nasdaq listing, which could have a material adverse effect on the market for and the market price of our common stock. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, our ability to provide accurate financial statements and comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could be impaired, which could cause our stock price to decrease substantially. Prior to November 2007, the Huayang Companies operated as private companies without public reporting obligations, and they committed limited personnel and resources to the development of the external reporting and compliance obligations that would be required of a public company. We are continuing to institute changes to satisfy our obligations in under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In Item 9A of this annual report, we report that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting were not adequate at December 31, 2014. We are continuing to institute changes to satisfy our obligations under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Any failure of our internal controls or our ability to provide accurate financial statements could cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease substantially. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends. We presently do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends on any of our capital stock in the foreseeable future. We presently intend to retain all earnings, if any, to implement our business plan; and we do not anticipate the declaration of any dividends in the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 