ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this report before making an investment decision with regard to our securities. The statements contained in or incorporated into this annual report that are not historic facts are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 14 Risks Related to Our Business We are incurring significant obligations in developing the manufacture of rolled rings for use in the wind power and other industries with no assurance that we can or will be successful in this business. We acquired buildings, land use rights and leasehold improvements from a related party for approximately $10,950,000 to manufacture components in our rolled ring operations. Wind power accounts for an insignificant percentage of the power generated in the PRC, and our ability to market to this segment is dependent upon both the growth of the acceptance of wind power as an energy source in the PRC and the acceptance of our products. We are making the financial and manpower commitment in our belief that both there will be an increased demand for wind power in China and elsewhere, that the companies that manufacture wind power generation equipment will purchase our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop this business, and our failure to develop the business will have a material adverse effect on our overall financial condition and the results of our operations. We will require additional funds to expand our operations. In connection with the development and expansion of our business, we will incur significant capital and operational expenses. We do not presently have any funding commitments other than our present credit arrangements which we do not believe is sufficient to enable us to satisfy our purchase commitments and to otherwise expand our business. If we are unable to obtain the pay our purchase commitments and we cannot find alternative financing we may be unable to expand our business or finance the growth of our existing business, which may impair our ability to operate profitably. In order to meet our short-term cash requirements: • During the fourth quarter of 2008, we raised $575,000 from the sale of a 17.4% subordinated note with respect to which we had to pay consulting fees of $31,662.50 per month, $175,000 from the exercise of warrants held by the lender and $1,250,000 from the sale of stock at $0.40 per share, and • During the first quarter of 2009, we raised $250,000 on terms from the sale of our 15% note along with warrants to purchase 437,500 shares of common stock at $0.40 per share. Because of our stock price and the worldwide economic downturn, we may not be able to raise any additional funds that we require on favorable terms, if any. The failure to obtain necessary financing may impair our ability to manufacture our products and continue in business. We are investing heavily in products designed for the wind power industry with no assurance that a substantial market for wind power will ever develop. Our rolled ring business is based on the assumption that wind power will become a more significant source of power in the PRC and elsewhere. Although the government of the PRC has announced a plan which contemplates a significant increase in wind power in the PRC, at present wind power accounts for a miniscule percentage of China’s energy needs, and we cannot assure you that wind power will ever become a significant source of energy in China. Since our growth plan is based on developing and providing equipment and components for that industry, our business will be impaired if the market for wind power generation equipment does not develop or if the market develops but our products are not accepted by the market. 15 You may suffer significant dilution if we raise additional capital. If we need to raise additional capital to expand or continue operations, it may be necessary for us to issue additional equity or convertible debt securities. If we issue equity or convertible debt securities, the net tangible book value per share may decrease, the percentage ownership of our current stockholders would be diluted, and any equity securities we may issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior or more advantageous to our common stockholders. Furthermore, if the price at which we sell securities is less than the conversion price of the series A preferred stock or the exercise price of the warrants, the conversion price of the series A preferred stock and the exercise price of the warrants would be reduced. As a result of our financing in the fourth quarter of 2008, the conversion price of our series A preferred stock and the exercise price of our warrants was reduced. Because we sell capital equipment, our business is subject to our customers’ capital budget and we may suffer delays or cancellations of orders and the effects of the worldwide economic downturn. Our customers purchase our equipment as part of their capital budget. As a result, we are dependent upon receiving orders from companies that are either expanding their business, commencing a new business, upgrading their capital equipment or otherwise require capital equipment. Our business is therefore dependent upon both the economic health of these industries and our ability to offer products that meet regulatory requirements, including environmental requirements, of these industries and are cost justifiable, based on potential cost savings in using our equipment in contrast to existing equipment or equipment offered by others. As a result of the worldwide economic downturn, the market for capital equipment in the textile industry has significantly declined. If we are not able to generate sufficient business, we may discontinue this phase of our operations and concentrate on our forged rings and electrical power equipment segment. We cannot predict the extent that the market for capital equipment in the coal and wind power industries will be affected. However, any economic slowdown can affect all purchasers and manufactures of capital equipment, and we cannot assure you that our coal and rolled rings business will not be significantly impaired as a result of the worldwide economic downturn. The nature of our products creates the possibility of significant product liability and warranty claims, which could harm our business. Customers use some of our products in potentially hazardous applications that can cause injury or loss of life and damage to property, equipment or the environment. In addition, some of our products are integral to the production process for some end-users and any failure of our products could result in a suspension of operations. We cannot be certain that our products will be completely free from defects. Moreover, we do not have any product liability insurance and may not have adequate resources to satisfy a judgment in the event of a successful claim against us. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and require us to make significant payments. In addition, because the insurance industry in China is still in its early stages of development, business interruption insurance available in China offers limited coverage compared to that offered in many other countries. We do not have any business interruption insurance. Any business disruption or natural disaster could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Our ability to market electrical power equipment in the coal industry is dependent upon manufacturing equipment that enables our customers to meet environmental requirements. We market the electrical power equipment to operators of coal-fired electricity generation plants. Our ability to market these products is dependent upon the continued growth of coal-generated power plants and our ability to offer products that enable the operators of the power plants to produce electricity through a cleaner process than would otherwise be available at a reasonable cost. To the extent that government regulations are adopted that require the power plants to reduce or eliminate polluting discharges from power plants, our equipment would need to be designed to meet such requirements. 16 If we fail to introduce enhancements to our existing products or to keep abreast of technological changes in our markets, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Although certain technologies in the industries that we occupy are well established, we believe our future success depends in part on our ability to enhance our existing products and develop new products in order to continue to meet customer demands. Our failure to introduce new or enhanced products on a timely and cost-competitive basis, or the development of processes that make our existing technologies or products obsolete, could harm our business and results of operations. Because we face intense competition from other companies for both of our operating segments, many of which have greater resources than we do, we may not be able to compete successfully and we may lose or be unable to gain market share. The markets for products in both of our business segments are intensely competitive. Many of our competitors have established more prominent market positions, and if we fail to attract and retain customers and establish successful distribution networks in our target markets for our products, we will be unable to increase our sales. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. Our competitors’ greater size in some cases provides them with a competitive advantage with respect to manufacturing costs because of their economies of scale and their ability to purchase raw materials at lower prices, as well as securing supplies at times of shortages. Many of our competitors also have greater brand name recognition, more established distribution networks and larger customer bases. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential distributors and have extensive knowledge of our target markets. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the research, development, promotion and sale of their products or respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions than we can. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or new competitors may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages and fines. As our manufacturing processes generate noise, wastewater, gaseous and other industrial wastes, we are required to comply with all national and local regulations regarding protection of the environment. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental regulations, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. We use, generate and discharge toxic, volatile and otherwise hazardous chemicals and wastes in our research and development and manufacturing activities. Any failure by us to control the use of, or to restrict adequately, the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions in our business operations. Our products are subject to PRC regulations that pertain to electrical equipment, which may materially adversely affect our business. These regulations influence the design, components or operation of such products. New regulations and changes to current regulations are always possible and, in some jurisdictions, regulations may be introduced with little or no time to bring related products into compliance with these regulations. Our failure to comply with these regulations may restrict our ability to sell our products in the PRC. In addition, these regulations may increase our cost of supplying the products by forcing us to redesign existing products or to use more expensive designs or components. In these cases, we may experience unexpected disruptions in our ability to supply customers with products, or we may incur unexpected costs or operational complexities to bring products into compliance. This could have an adverse effect on our revenues, gross profit margins and results of operations and increase the volatility of our financial results. 17 The success of our businesses will depend on our ability to effectively develop and implement strategic business initiatives. We are currently implementing various strategic business initiatives. In connection with the development and implementation of these initiatives, we will incur additional expenses and capital expenditures to implement the initiatives. The development and implementation of these initiatives also requires management to divert a portion of its time from day-to-day operations. These expenses and diversions could have a significant impact on our operations and profitability, particularly if the initiatives included in any new initiative proves to be unsuccessful. Moreover, if we are unable to implement an initiative in a timely manner, or if those initiatives turn out to be ineffective or are executed improperly, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. Our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. The textile and apparel industries have historically been subject to substantial cyclical variations and are particularly affected by adverse trends in the general economy, and are presently subject to the effects of the worldwide economic downturn and trade policies of other countries which have severely impacted these industries in China. The reduction in demand for textile products has resulted in a reduction in the demand for capital equipment used in these industries. This reduction in demand affects both our sales and our gross margin, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Failure to successfully reduce our production costs may adversely affect our financial results. A significant portion of our strategy relies upon our ability to successfully rationalize and improve the efficiency of our operations. In particular, our strategy relies on our ability to reduce our production costs in order to remain competitive. If we are not able to continue to successfully implement cost reduction measures, especially in a time of a worldwide economic downturn, or if these efforts do not generate the level of cost savings that we expect going forward or result in higher than expected costs, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If we are unable to make necessary capital investments or respond to pricing pressures, our business may be harmed. In order to remain competitive, we need to invest in research and development, manufacturing, customer service and support, and marketing. From time to time we also have to adjust the prices of our products to remain competitive. We may not have available sufficient financial or other resources to continue to make investments necessary to maintain our competitive position. A decrease in supply or increase in cost of the materials used in our products could harm our profitability. Any restrictions on the supply or the increase in the cost of the materials used by us in manufacturing our products, especially steel, could significantly reduce our profit margins. Efforts to mitigate restrictions on the supply or price increases of materials by entering into long-term purchase agreements, by implementing productivity improvements or by passing cost increases on to our customers may not be successful. Our profitability depends largely on the price and continuity of supply of the materials used in the manufacture of our products, which in many instances are supplied by a limited number of sources. 18 Unforeseen or recurring operational problems at our facilities may cause significant lost production, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our manufacturing processes could be affected by operational problems that could impair our production capability. Our facilities contain complex and sophisticated machines that are used in our manufacturing process. Disruptions at our facilities could be caused by maintenance outages; prolonged power failures or reductions; a breakdown, failure or substandard performance of any of our machines; the effect of noncompliance with material environmental requirements or permits; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including railroad tracks, bridges, tunnels or roads; fires, floods, earthquakes or other catastrophic disasters; labor difficulties; or other operational problems. Any prolonged disruption in operations at our facilities could cause significant lost production, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our officers and directors own a substantial portion of our outstanding common stock, which will enable them to influence many significant corporate actions and in certain circumstances may prevent a change in control that would otherwise be beneficial to our shareholders. As of March 20, 2009, our officers and directors and members of their families beneficially owned approximately 64% of our outstanding shares of stock that is entitled to vote on all corporate actions. These stockholders, acting together, could have a substantial impact on matters requiring the vote of the shareholders, including the election of our directors and most of our corporate actions. This control could delay, defer or prevent others from initiating a potential merger, takeover or other change in our control, even if these actions would benefit our shareholders and us. This control could adversely affect the voting and other rights of our other shareholders and could depress the market price of our common stock. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and our ability to maintain a skilled labor force, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of our executive officers, especially Mr. Jianhua Wu, our chief executive officer and the chairman of our Board. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our executive officers. If one or more of our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. Therefore, our business may be severely disrupted, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. Our chief executive officer is a party to contractual agreements as described elsewhere in our annual report. However, if any disputes arise between our executive officer and us, we cannot assure you, in light of uncertainties associated with the Chinese legal system, the extent to which any of these agreements could be enforced in China, where some of our executive officers reside and hold some of their assets. If we are unable to attract, train and retain technical and financial personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain technical and financial personnel. Recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly those with expertise in our chosen industries, are vital to our success. There is substantial competition for qualified technical and financial personnel, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain our technical and financial personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our business may be materially and adversely affected. 19 Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly. We rely primarily on trade secret and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. Nevertheless, these afford only limited protection and the actions we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. As a result, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. In addition, policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others and the enforcement of intellectual property rights in China may be difficult. We cannot assure you that the outcome of any litigation will be in our favor. Intellectual property litigation may be costly and may divert management attention as well as expend our other resources away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Implementation of China’s intellectual property-related laws has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in China’s laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. We have limited business insurance coverage. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. We do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of our resources. Risks Related to Conducting Business in the PRC PRC laws and regulations governing our businesses and the validity of certain of our contractual arrangements are uncertain. If we are found to be in violation, we could be subject to sanctions. In addition, changes in such PRC laws and regulations may materially and adversely affect our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entities, the Huayang Companies, and its shareholders. We are considered a foreign person or foreign invested enterprise under PRC law. As a result, we are subject to PRC law limitations on foreign ownership of Chinese companies. These laws and regulations are relatively new and may be subject to change, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. 20 The PRC government has broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business and other licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses and permits issued or granted to us by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time by higher regulatory bodies. We cannot predict the effect of the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations on our businesses. We cannot assure you that our current ownership and operating structure would not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws or regulations. As a result, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines, and could be required to restructure our operations or cease to provide certain services. Any of these or similar actions could significantly disrupt our business operations or restrict us from conducting a substantial portion of our business operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The PRC government restricts foreign investment in businesses in China. Accordingly, we operate our business in China through the Huayang Companies. The Huayang Companies hold the licenses and approvals necessary to operate our businesses in China. We have contractual arrangements with the Huayang Companies and its shareholders that allow us to substantially control the Huayang Companies. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to enforce these contracts. Although we believe we comply with current PRC regulations, we cannot assure you that the PRC government would agree that these operating arrangements comply with PRC licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. If the PRC government determines that we do not comply with applicable law, it could revoke our business and operating licenses, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, require us to restructure our operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, impose restrictions on our business operations or on our customers, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. Our contractual arrangements with the Huayang Companies and its shareholders may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. Since the law of the PRC limits foreign equity ownership in companies in China, we operate our business through the Huayang Companies. We have no equity ownership interest in the Huayang Companies and rely on contractual arrangements to control and operate such businesses. These contractual arrangements may not be effective in providing control over the Huayang Companies as direct ownership. For example, the Huayang Companies could fail to take actions required for our businesses despite its contractual obligation to do so. If the Huayang Companies fail to perform under their agreements with us, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements and may have to rely on legal remedies under the law of the PRC, which may not be effective. In addition, we cannot assure you that the Huayang Companies’ shareholders would always act in our best interests. Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. All of our business operations are conducted and all of our revenues are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the amount of government involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; • the control of foreign exchange; and • the allocation of resources. 21 While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past 20 years, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy, and the worldwide economic downturn has affected China. As a result, Chinese exports, including textiles, have decreased substantially and a number of companies have closed their businesses, which affects the demand for capital goods. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the Chinese government could materially and adversely affect our business. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the Chinese government to slow the pace of growth of the Chinese economy could result in decreased capital expenditure by solar energy users, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. Furthermore, in response to the worldwide economic downturn, the Chinese government may seek to increase its control over businesses which could affect our business. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of renewable energy investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our Chinese subsidiaries and affiliates, which are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. China’s legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, Chinese legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and China’s legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs We conduct substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries and affiliates. We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities organized in China is subject to limitations. Regulations in China currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. We are also required to set aside at least 10.0% of its after-tax profit based on China’s accounting standards each year to its general reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reach 50.0% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Our subsidiaries are also required to allocate a portion of its after-tax profits to its staff welfare and bonus funds, which may not be distributed to equity owners except in the event of liquidation. In addition, if our subsidiaries incur debt, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. 22 Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The change in value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the Chinese government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in appreciation of Renminbi against U.S. dollar. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the Chinese government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. As a portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in Renminbi, the revaluation in July 2005 and potential future revaluation has and could further increase our costs. Any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition, and the value of, and any of our dividends payable on our ordinary shares in foreign currency terms. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, our Chinese subsidiaries are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that that the Chinese government will not take further measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Foreign exchange transactions by our Chinese subsidiaries under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of China’s governmental authorities, including the SAFE. In particular, if a subsidiary borrows foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with the SAFE, and if we finance the subsidiary by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities including the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts. These limitations could affect the ability of our subsidiaries to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of avian flu, SARS or another epidemic or outbreak. China reported a number of cases of SARS in April 2004. In 2005, there were reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases. Any prolonged recurrence of avian flu, SARS or other adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. These could include our ability to travel or ship our products outside of China, as well as temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities. Such closures or travel or shipment restrictions would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. 23 Failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident stockholders to personal liability, limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially adversely affect us. In October 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued the Notice on Relevant Issues in the Foreign Exchange Control over Financing and Return Investment Through Special Purpose Companies by Residents Inside China, generally referred to as Circular 75, which required PRC residents to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or acquiring control over an offshore special purpose company, or SPV, for the purpose of engaging in an equity financing outside of China on the strength of domestic PRC assets originally held by those residents. Internal implementing guidelines issued by SAFE, which became public in June 2007 (known as Notice 106), expanded the reach of Circular 75 by (i) purporting to cover the establishment or acquisition of control by PRC residents of offshore entities which merely acquire “control” over domestic companies or assets, even in the absence of legal ownership; (ii) adding requirements relating to the source of the PRC resident’s funds used to establish or acquire the offshore entity; (iii) covering the use of existing offshore entities for offshore financings; (iv) purporting to cover situations in which an offshore SPV establishes a new subsidiary in China or acquires an unrelated company or unrelated assets in China; and (v) making the domestic affiliate of the SPV responsible for the accuracy of certain documents which must be filed in connection with any such registration, notably, the business plan which describes the overseas financing and the use of proceeds. Amendments to registrations made under Circular 75 are required in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, mergers and acquisitions, equity investment or creation of any security interest in any assets located in China to guarantee offshore obligations, and Notice 106 makes the offshore SPV jointly responsible for these filings. In the case of an SPV which was established, and which acquired a related domestic company or assets, before the implementation date of Circular 75, a retroactive SAFE registration was required to have been completed before March 31, 2006; this date was subsequently extended indefinitely by Notice 106, which also required that the registrant establish that all foreign exchange transactions undertaken by the SPV and its affiliates were in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with the requirements of Circular 75, as applied by SAFE in accordance with Notice 106, may result in fines and other penalties under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Any such failure could also result in the SPV’s affiliates being impeded or prevented from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the SPV, or from engaging in other transfers of funds into or out of China. We cannot provide any assurances that their existing registrations have fully complied with, and they have made all necessary amendments to their registration to fully comply with, all applicable registrations or approvals required by Circular 75. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how Circular 75 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. Risks Related to our Common Stock The OTC Bulletin Board is a quotation system, not an issuer listing service, market or exchange. Therefore, buying and selling stock on the OTC Bulletin Board is not as efficient as buying and selling stock through an exchange. As a result, it may be difficult for you to sell your common stock or you may not be able to sell your common stock for an optimum trading price. The OTC Bulletin Board is a regulated quotation service that displays real-time quotes, last sale prices and volume limitations in over-the-counter securities. Because trades and quotations on the OTC Bulletin Board involve a manual process, the market information for such securities cannot be guaranteed. In addition, quote information, or even firm quotes, may not be available. The manual execution process may delay order processing and intervening price fluctuations may result in the failure of a limit order to execute or the execution of a market order at a significantly different price. Execution of trades, execution reporting and the delivery of legal trade confirmations may be delayed significantly. Consequently, one may not be able to sell shares of our common stock at the optimum trading prices. 24 If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, our ability to provide accurate financial statements and comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could be impaired, which could cause our stock price to decrease substantially. Prior to November 2007, the Huayang Companies operated as private companies without public reporting obligations, and they committed limited personnel and resources to the development of the external reporting and compliance obligations that would be required of a public company. We are in the process of instituting changes to satisfy our obligations in under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures, and documentation thereof. If our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems or procedures fail, we may not be able to provide accurate financial statements on a timely basis or comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Any failure of our internal controls or our ability to provide accurate financial statements could cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease substantially. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends. We presently do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends on any of our capital stock in the foreseeable future. The securities purchase agreement relating to our November 2007 private placement prohibits the payment of dividends on our common stock or the purchase or common stock while the series A preferred stock is outstanding. Subject to this restriction, the payment of any dividends is within the discretion of our board of directors. We presently intend to retain all earnings, if any, to implement our business plan; and we do not anticipate the declaration of any dividends in the foreseeable future. Our common stock is thinly traded and, you may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all if you need to sell your shares to raise money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares. Our common stock has historically been thinly-traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common shares at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. As a result, the market price for our common stock is particularly volatile. The price at which you purchase our common stock may not be indicative of the price that will prevail in the trading market. You may be unable to sell your common stock at or above your purchase price if at all, which may result in substantial losses to you. Existing stockholders may experience some dilution as a result of the exercise of warrants and conversion of preferred stock. As of March 25, 2009, we had warrants to purchase a total of 16,133,501 shares of common stock at an average exercise price of $0.50 per share and we had series A preferred stock outstanding which are convertible into 14,028,189 shares of common stock. Any issuances of shares upon any exercise of these warrants or conversion of the series A preferred stock will cause dilution to our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 25 ITEM 