Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves risks. Before making an investment decision, investors should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks or other risks, which have not been identified or which we may believe are immaterial or unlikely, actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In such a case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors may lose all or part of their investment Risks Related to Our Business If we do not promptly and successfully complete our acquisition of Concord Bank and integrate it and its internal controls into our business, we may not realize the expected benefits from the acquisition. On December 8, 2005, we entered a binding contract to acquire Concord Bank. The acquisition is contingent upon conditions that may occur on a delayed basis or not at all. As a result, the closing of the acquisition may not occur in the timeframe that we expect, and it is possible that the closing may not occur at all. A delayed closing will set back our efforts to integrate Concord Bank’s business with ours and to expand our business into the Houston market. If we are unable to close the acquisition, we will have diverted resources away from pursuits that would have proved ultimately to be more beneficial to our business. In addition, if we consummate the transaction, we may encounter unforeseen expenses as well as difficulties and complications in integrating Concord Bank’s operations with our overall operations. We expect to maintain most of Concord Bank’s key customers and personnel and integrate Concord Bank’s systems and procedures into ours with minimal cost and diversion of management time and attention. If we are unable to integrate Concord Bank in a timely manner, or if we experience disruptions with Concord Bank’s customer relationships or departures in Concord Bank’s key personnel, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of Concord Bank may not be realized and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Pursuant to the merger agreement, if we do not consummate this transaction by April 30, 2006, either party has the right to terminate the merger. If the value of real estate in our primary market areas were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition to considering the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of borrowers, we often secure loans with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2005, approximately 76% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Because of our geographic concentrations, a decline in the local economic conditions of any of our primary market areas may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. We have a concentration of credit exposure to borrowers in the retail trade industry and to small to medium-sized businesses. At December 31, 2005, we had total credit exposure of approximately $128.1 million to borrowers in the retail trade industry, representing approximately 35.8% of our total loans outstanding as of that date. Our borrowers in this industry consist principally of convenience stores, restaurants, food stores and liquor stores. If these lines of business experience an economic slowdown, our borrowers in these businesses could become unable to perform their obligations under their loan agreements. This could negatively affect our earnings and cause the value of our common stock to decline. Additionally, a substantial focus of our marketing and business strategy is to serve small to medium-sized businesses in our primary market areas. As a result, a relatively high percentage of our loan portfolio consists of commercial loans to these businesses. At December 31, 2005, commercial loans accounted for approximately 99% of our total loans. During periods of economic weakness, small to medium-sized businesses may be impacted more severely than larger businesses. Consequently, their ability to repay their loans may deteriorate, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have a concentration of credit exposure in commercial real estate. At December 31, 2005, we had approximately $125.8 million in loans to borrowers in the commercial real estate industry, representing approximately 35.1% of our total loans outstanding as of that date. The real estate consists primarily of office buildings 16 and shopping centers and also includes apartment buildings, owner-occupied properties and warehouses. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans. They are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans and depend on the cash flows from the property to service the debt. Cash flows may be affected significantly by general economic conditions, and a downturn in the local economy or in occupancy rates in the local economy where the property is located could increase the likelihood of default. Because our loan portfolio contains a number of commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in our percentage of non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our international banking services involve risks presented by economic and political volatility. For the year ended December 31, 2005, interest income and fees from international banking services represented approximately 8% of our revenues and increased by 47% as compared to 2004. These fees are subject to volatility resulting from global economic and political uncertainties. Additionally, our international banking fee income typically increases as volume in international trade by our clients increases. As a result, events such as terrorist attacks, military actions, natural disasters and changes in laws or regulations governing cross-border transactions could decrease international trade activity and reduce our fee income. Given our emphasis on providing international banking services for our domestic customers, such events may have greater impact on us than on other community banks. We are subject to a recent consent order from the OCC relating to our compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”). If the OCC finds that we continue to experience deficiencies in our BSA compliance, it could restrict our activities, impose civil money penalties or place limitations on the conduct of our business that could have a material adverse effect on us. On January 17, 2006, we consented to the issuance of a consent order from the OCC that requires us to improve our compliance and operations infrastructure with respect to the BSA. As part of the consent order, we agreed to strengthen our BSA internal controls, including the appointment of a compliance committee and the development and implementation of enhanced policies and procedures for BSA compliance; to enhance our programs and controls for customer identification and Suspicious Activity Reporting; to enhance our BSA audit functions; and to improve employee training relating to the detection and prevention of money laundering. We have incurred approximately $70,000 in additional expenses related to these activities and expect to incur similar expenses in connection with this regulatory action in the future. If the OCC finds that we continue to experience deficiencies in our BSA compliance, it could restrict our activities, impose civil money penalties, or place limitations on the conduct of our business that could have a material adverse effect on us. If the OCC continues to pursue regulatory action against us, our reputation could deteriorate. We face strong competition from larger, more established competitors. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience strong competition from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other financial institutions, which operate in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We also compete with locally-based “niche” banks that serve the Asian-American and other ethnic communities in our primary market areas. These banks are more established in the communities they serve and may be more familiar to local residents. We may have a competitive disadvantage compared to these banks because of our lack of familiarity with the local markets. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we must attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established and much larger financial institutions, and we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size and lack of geographic diversification. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources, lending limits and operating histories than we do and may offer services that we do not or cannot provide. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of any of our senior management team and are unable to recruit or retain a suitable replacement. We believe that our success to date and our prospects for future success depend significantly on the efforts of our senior management team, which includes Pin Pin Chau, our Chief Executive Officer; David Yu, our President and Chairman of the Board of Summit Bank; Thomas J. Flournoy, our Chief Financial Officer; and H. A. Dudley, Jr., Executive Vice President and Chief Lending Officer of Summit Bank. We do not have an employment agreement with these officers or with any of our employees. 17 Therefore, they are free to terminate their employment with us at any time, and we could have difficulty replacing our officers with equally competent persons who are experienced in the specialized aspects of our business. The loss of the services of any of these persons could have an adverse effect on our business. In particular, Ms. Chau has announced her intention to retire in 2007, and we may not be successful in identifying or retaining a chief executive officer with the skills necessary to lead our company successfully. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could adversely affect our business and the trading price of our stock. We are currently in the process of evaluating our internal controls system to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to audit, our internal controls over financial reporting. Following the consummation of our acquisition of Concord Bank, we will include its internal controls in this process and intend to integrate them with ours. As part of this process, we will perform the system and process evaluations and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Assuming we complete our current offering during the first or second quarter of 2006, we may be required to begin complying with Section 404 as early as the current fiscal year; however, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. Furthermore, upon completion of this process, we may identify control deficiencies of varying degrees of severity under applicable SEC and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board rules and regulations that remain unremediated. As a public company, we will be required to report, among other things, certain control deficiencies. If we fail to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or the Nasdaq National Market. In addition, if any material weakness or deficiency is identified or is not remedied, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy of our reported financial information, and our stock price could be significantly adversely affected as a result. We face risks with respect to future expansion and acquisitions or mergers. We may seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions and may continue to engage in de novo branch expansion in the future. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners may negatively affect our business; • the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution may not be accurate; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices and the delays between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion may negatively affect our business; • we may not be able to finance an acquisition without diluting our existing shareholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction may detract from their business productivity; • we may enter into new markets where we lack experience; • we may introduce new products and services into our business with which we have no prior experience; and • we may incur an impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and experience adverse short-term effects on our results of operations. In addition, no assurance can be given that we will be able to integrate our operations after an acquisition without encountering difficulties including, without limitation: • the loss of key employees and customers; and • the disruption of our respective ongoing businesses or possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. Successful integration of our operations with another entity’s will depend primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems and procedures and to eliminate redundancies and costs. If we have difficulties with an integration, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect to result from any particular acquisition or merger. In addition, we may experience greater than expected costs or difficulties relating to such integration. 18 Our business strategy includes the continuation of growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We intend to continue pursuing a growth strategy for our business. Our ability to grow successfully will depend on a variety of factors, including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in significant growth stages of development. We may not be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or enter new markets successfully, and such expansion could adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our expansion plans may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or may be available only on unfavorable terms that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. As a result, we may from time to time need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. Alternatively, we may be able to raise capital only by issuing debt on unfavorable terms to us that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to the local economies where we operate, and unfavorable economic conditions in these areas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends upon the growth in population, income levels and deposits in our primary market areas. If the communities, and more specifically the ethnic communities, in which we operate do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. Unpredictable economic conditions may have an adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolio and our financial performance. Economic recession over a prolonged period or other economic problems in our market areas could have a material adverse impact on the quality of our loan portfolio and the demand for our products and services. Future adverse changes in the economies in our market areas may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Further, the banking industry in our primary market areas is affected by general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment and other factors beyond our control. As a community bank, we are less able to spread the risk of unfavorable local economic conditions than larger or more regional banks. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas even if they do occur. See “Business — Market Areas.” Our recent results may not be indicative of our future results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow our business at all. Various factors, such as poor economic conditions, changes in interest rates, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to a high percentage of our operating costs being fixed expenses. Our directors and executive officers own a significant portion of our common stock and can influence shareholder decisions. Our directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially owned approximately 34% of our fully diluted outstanding common stock as of January 31, 2006. As a result of their ownership, the directors and executive officers will have the ability, by voting their shares in concert, to influence the outcome of any matter submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. The directors and executive officers may vote to cause Summit to take actions with which shareholders do not agree or that are not beneficial to shareholders. 19 Antitakeover provisions of our articles of incorporation may increase the control by current directors in a way that shareholders do not favor. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation may be deemed to have the effect of making an acquisition of control of our company more difficult when attempted in a transaction not approved by our Board of Directors. Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of “special stock” with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors. Accordingly, the Board of Directors is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue special stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of common stock. In the event of such issuance, the special stock could also be used, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. Although we do not currently intend to issue any shares of special stock, we may issue such shares in the future. Our articles of incorporation also provide that the Board of Directors will be divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms and that a director may only be removed for cause upon a 66 2/3% vote of our shareholders. These provisions could enable a minority of our shareholders to prevent the removal of a director sought to be removed by a majority of the shareholders and may tend to enhance management’s ability to retain control over our affairs and to preserve the director’s present position on the board. Finally, our articles of incorporation require approval by at least 66 2/3% of our shareholders of a merger or consolidation with, or sale of at least 20% of our assets to, another entity if that entity and its affiliates beneficially own more than five percent of our then-outstanding shares of common stock. This special voting requirement will not apply, however, to a transaction approved by at least 80% of our directors. This provision makes it more difficult for a potential acquiror to acquire us without significant support from our Board of Directors. Amendment of any of the provisions of our articles of incorporation requires the vote of at least 66 2/3% of our shareholders. Risks Related to Our Industry Changes in the interest rate environment could reduce our profitability. Our profitability depends substantially upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the interest earned on assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest paid for liabilities, such as savings and time deposits. Market interest rates for loans, investments and deposits are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control. Recently, interest rate spreads have generally narrowed due to changing market conditions, policies of various government and regulatory authorities and competitive pricing pressures, and we cannot predict whether these rate spreads will narrow even further. This narrowing of interest rate spreads could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. In addition, we cannot predict whether interest rates will continue to remain at present levels. Changes in interest rates may cause significant changes, up or down, in our net interest income. Even if rates remain constant, a decrease in the percentage of our deposit base consisting of non-interest-bearing deposits could adversely affect our net interest income. Depending on our portfolio of loans and investments, our results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. In addition, any significant increase in prevailing interest rates could adversely affect our mortgage banking business because higher interest rates could cause customers to request fewer refinancings and purchase money mortgage originations. We could suffer loan losses from a decline in credit quality. We could sustain losses if borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. Our underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. See “Business—Lending Activities.” If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. We may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover any loan losses that may occur. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classification, volume and trends in delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions and other pertinent information. As we expand into new markets, our determination of the size of the allowance could be inaccurate due to our lack of familiarity with market-specific factors. 20 If our assumptions are wrong, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover our loan losses, and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses was $4.6 million, or 1.27% of loans, as of December 31, 2005. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize future loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. As a bank holding company, we are primarily regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”). Our bank subsidiary is primarily regulated by the OCC. Our compliance with Federal Reserve and OCC regulations is costly and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capital requirements of our regulators. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq National Market that apply to us have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. As a result, we may experience greater compliance costs. Changes in monetary policies may have an adverse effect on our business. Our results of operations are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve. Actions by monetary and fiscal authorities, including the Federal Reserve, could have an adverse effect on our deposit levels, loan demand or business and earnings. See “Business—Supervision and Regulation.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 