Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating our business. If any of these risks, or other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not significant, develops into an actual event, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If that happens, the market price of our common stock could decline. We may be materially and adversely affected by reductions in spending by certain of our customers. The significant slowdown in capital spending by certain of our customers, coupled with existing economic and geopolitical uncertainties and the potential impact on customer demand, has created uncertainty as to market demand. As a result, revenues and operating results for a particular period can be difficult to predict. In addition, there can be no certainty as to the severity or duration of the current industry adjustment. As a result of changes in industry and market conditions, many of our customers have significantly reduced their capital spending. Our revenues and operating results have been and may continue to be materially and adversely affected by reductions in capital spending by our customers. Our operating results have historically been subject to yearly and quarterly fluctuations and are expected to continue to fluctuate. Our operating results have historically been and are expected to continue to be subject to quarterly and yearly fluctuations as a result of a number of factors including: • our ability to successfully implement programs to stimulate sales by anticipating and offering the kinds of products and services customers will require in the future to increase the efficiency and profitability of their products; • our ability to successfully complete programs on a timely basis, to reduce our cost structure, including fixed costs, to streamline our operations and to reduce product costs; • our ability to focus our business on what we believe to be potentially higher growth, higher margin businesses and to dispose of or exit non-core businesses; • increased price and product competition in our markets; 10 Table of Contents • the inherent uncertainties of using forecasts, estimates and assumptions for asset valuations and in determining the amounts of accrued liabilities and other items in our consolidated financial statements; • our ability to implement our work plan without negatively impacting our relationships with our customers, the delivery of products based on new and developing technologies, the delivery of high quality products at competitive prices, the maintenance of technological leadership, the effectiveness of our internal processes and organizations and the retention of qualified personnel; • fluctuations in our gross margins; • the development, introduction and market acceptance of new technologies; • variations in sales channels, product costs and the mix of products sold; • the size and timing of customer orders and shipments; • our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels; • the impact of acquired businesses and technologies; • the impact of our product development schedules, product quality variances, manufacturing capacity and lead times required to produce our products; • changes in legislation, regulation and/or accounting rules; the impact of higher insurance premiums and deductibles and greater limitations on insurance coverage; and • acts of terrorism or the outbreak of hostilities or armed conflict between countries. There are a number of trends and factors which affect our markets, including economic conditions in the United States, Europe and globally, and are beyond our control. These trends and factors may result in reduced demand and pricing pressure on our products. There are trends and factors affecting our markets that are beyond our control and may affect our operations. Such trends and factors include: • adverse changes in the public and private equity and debt markets and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers and suppliers, to obtain financing or to fund working capital and capital expenditures; • adverse changes in our current credit condition or the credit quality of our customers and suppliers; • adverse changes in the market conditions in our markets; • the trend towards the sale of integrated products; • visibility to, and the actual size and timing of, capital expenditures by our customers; • inventory practices, including the timing of product and service deployment, of our customers; • policies of our customers regarding utilization of single or multiple vendors for the products they purchase; • the overall trend toward industry consolidation and rationalization among our customers, competitors and suppliers; • conditions in the broader market for military and communications products; • governmental regulation or intervention affecting our products; and • the effects of war and acts of terrorism, such as disruptions in general global economic activity, changes in logistics and security arrangements and reduced customer demand for our products and services. 11 Table of Contents Economic conditions affecting the industry, which affect market conditions in the military and communication infrastructure industry in the United States, Europe and globally, affect our business. Reduced capital spending and/or negative economic conditions in the United States, Europe as well as other areas of the world have resulted in, and could continue to result in, reduced demand for or increased pricing pressures on our products. We have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions in order to enhance our business. If we are not successful in operating or integrating these acquisitions, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. In the past, we acquired companies to enhance the expansion of our business and products. We may consider additional acquisitions which could involve significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include: • the risk that the industry may develop in a different direction than anticipated and that the technologies we acquire do not prove to be those we need to be successful in the industry; • the risk that future valuations of acquired businesses may decrease from the market price we paid for these acquisitions; • the generation of insufficient revenues by acquired businesses to offset increased operating expenses associated with these acquisitions; • the potential difficulties in completing in-process research and development projects and delivering high quality products to our customers; • the potential difficulties in integrating new products, businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner; • the risk that our customers or customers of the acquired businesses may defer purchase decisions as they evaluate the impact of the acquisitions on our future product strategy; • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; • the risk that acquired businesses will divert the attention of our senior management from the operation of our business; and • the risks of entering new markets in which we have limited experience and where competitors may have a stronger market presence. Our inability to successfully operate and integrate newly-acquired businesses appropriately, effectively and in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our ability to take advantage of further growth in demand for products in our marketplace, as well as on our revenues, gross margins and expenses. If we cannot effectively manage our growth, our business may suffer. We have previously expanded our operations through acquisitions in order to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. If we fail to manage our growth properly, we may incur unnecessary expenses and the efficiency of our operations may decline. To manage our growth effectively, we must, among other things: • successfully attract, train, motivate and manage a larger number of employees for production and testing, engineering and administration activities; • control higher inventory and working capital requirements; and • improve the efficiencies within our operating, administrative, financial and accounting systems, and our procedures and controls. 12 Table of Contents We depend on single manufacturing lines for our products, and any significant disruption in production could impair our ability to deliver our products. We currently manufacture and assemble our products at our various facilities using individual production lines for certain product categories. We have experienced manufacturing difficulties in the past, and any significant disruption to one of these production lines will require time either to reconfigure and equip an alternative production line or to restore the original line to full capacity. Some of our production processes are complex, and we may be unable to respond rapidly to the loss of the use of any production line. This could result in delayed shipments, which could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and damage to our reputation. We depend on sole or limited source suppliers, and any disruption in supply could impair our ability to deliver our products on time or at expected cost. We obtain many key components for our products from third-party suppliers, and in some cases we use a single or a limited number of suppliers. Any interruption in supply could impair our ability to deliver our products until we identify a new source of supply, which could take several weeks, months or longer and could increase our costs significantly. In general, we do not have written long-term supply agreements with our suppliers but instead purchase components through purchase orders, which expose us to potential price increases and termination of supply without notice or recourse. If we are required to use a new source of materials or components, it could also result in unexpected manufacturing difficulties and could affect product performance and reliability. Our gross margins may be negatively affected, which in turn would negatively affect our operating results. Our gross margins may be negatively affected as a result of a number of factors, including: • increased price competition; • excess capacity or excess fixed assets; • customer and contract settlements; • higher product, material or labor costs; • increased inventory provisions or contract and customer settlement costs; • warranty costs; • obsolescence charges; • loss of cost savings on future inventory purchases as a result of high inventory levels; • introductions of new products and costs of entering new markets; • increased levels of customer services; • changes in distribution channels; and • changes in product and geographic mix. Lower than expected gross margins would negatively affect our operating results. We may not be able to attract or retain the specialized technical and managerial personnel necessary to achieve our business objectives. Competition for certain key positions and specialized technical personnel in the high-technology industry is strong. We believe that our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel in a timely manner, particularly in key senior management positions and in our key areas of potential growth. An important factor in attracting and retaining qualified employees is our ability to provide employees with the opportunity to participate in the potential growth of our business through programs such as stock option plans. We may also find it more difficult to attract or retain qualified employees because of our size. In addition, if we have not properly sized our workforce and retained those employees with the appropriate skills, 13 Table of Contents our ability to compete effectively may be adversely affected. If we are not successful in attracting, retaining or recruiting qualified employees, including members of senior management, in the future, we may not have the necessary personnel to effectively compete in the highly dynamic, specialized and volatile industry in which we operate or to achieve our business objectives. Future cash flow fluctuations may affect our ability to fund our working capital requirements or achieve our business objectives in a timely manner. Our working capital requirements and cash flows historically have been, and are expected to continue to be, subject to quarterly and yearly fluctuations, depending on such factors as timing and size of capital expenditures, levels of sales, timing of deliveries and collection of receivables, inventory levels, customer payment terms and supplier terms and conditions. We believe our cash on hand will be sufficient to fund our current business model, manage our investments and meet our customer commitments for at least the next 12 months. However, a greater than expected slow down in capital spending by our customers may require us to adjust our current business model. As a result, our revenues and cash flows may be materially lower than we expect and we may be required to reduce our capital expenditures and investments or take other measures in order to meet our cash requirements. We may seek additional funds from liquidity- generating transactions and other conventional sources of external financing (which may include a variety of debt, convertible debt and/or equity financings). We cannot provide any assurance that our net cash requirements will be as we currently expect. Our inability to manage cash flow fluctuations resulting from the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund our working capital requirements from operating cash flows and other sources of liquidity or to achieve our business objectives in a timely manner. Our business may be materially and adversely affected by increased levels of debt. In order to finance our business or to finance possible acquisitions we may incur significant levels of debt compared to historical levels, and we may need to secure additional sources of funding, which may include debt or convertible debt financing, in the future. A high level of debt, arduous or restrictive terms and conditions relating to accessing certain sources of funding, failure to meet the financial and/or other covenants in our credit and/or support facilities and any significant reduction in, or access to, such facilities, poor business performance or lower than expected cash inflows could have adverse consequences on our ability to fund our business and the operation of our business. Other effects of a high level of debt include the following: • we may have difficulty borrowing money in the future or accessing sources of funding; • we may need to use a large portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash available to finance our operations and other business activities; • a high debt level, arduous or restrictive terms and conditions, or lower than expected cash flows would make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business; and • if operating cash flows are not sufficient to meet our operating expenses, capital expenditures and debt service requirements as they become due, we may be required, in order to meet our debt service obligations, to delay or reduce capital expenditures or the introduction of new products, sell assets and/or forego business opportunities including acquisitions, research and development projects or product design enhancements. We operate in highly dynamic and volatile industries characterized by changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and relatively short product life cycles. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and short product life cycles. We expect our success to depend, in substantial part, on the timely and successful introduction of high quality, new products and upgrades, as well as 14 Table of Contents cost reductions on current products to address the operational speed, bandwidth, efficiency and cost requirements of our customers. Our success will also depend on our ability to comply with emerging industry standards, to operate with products of other suppliers, to address emerging market trends, to provide our customers with new revenue-generating opportunities and to compete with technological and product developments carried out by others. The development of new, technologically advanced products, is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. Investments in such development may result in expenses growing at a faster rate than revenues, particularly since the initial investment to bring a product to market may be high. We may not be successful in targeting new market opportunities, in developing and commercializing new products in a timely manner or in achieving market acceptance for our new products. The success of new or enhanced products, depends on a number of other factors, including the timely introduction of such products, market acceptance of new technologies and industry standards, the quality and robustness of new or enhanced products, competing product offerings, the pricing and marketing of such products and the availability of funding for such networks. Products and technologies developed by our competitors may render our products obsolete. If we fail to respond in a timely and effective manner to unanticipated changes in one or more of the technologies affecting telecommunications or our new products or product enhancements fail to achieve market acceptance, our ability to compete effectively in our industry, and our sales, market share and customer relationships could be materially and adversely affected. We face significant competition and may not be able to increase or maintain our market share and may suffer from competitive pricing practices. We operate in an industry that is characterized by industry rationalization and consolidation, vigorous competition for market share and rapid technological development. Competition is heightened in periods of slow overall market growth. These factors could result in aggressive pricing practices and growing competition from niche companies, established competitors, as well as well-capitalized companies, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our gross margins. We expect that we will face additional competition from existing competitors and from a number of companies that have entered or may enter our existing and future markets. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater marketing, technical and financial resources, including access to capital markets and/or the ability to provide customer financing in connection with the sale of products. Many of our current and potential competitors have also established, or may in the future establish, relationships with our current and potential customers. Other competitive factors include the ability to provide new technologies and products, end-to-end solutions, and new product features, as well as conformance to industry standards. Increased competition could result in price reductions, negatively affecting our operating results, reducing profit margins and potentially leading to a loss of market share. Our business may suffer if we cannot protect our proprietary technology. Our ability to compete depends significantly upon our patents and our other proprietary technology. The steps we have taken to protect our technology may be inadequate to prevent others from using what we regard as our technology to compete with us. Our patents could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights we have under our patents could provide no competitive advantages. Existing trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws offer only limited protection. In addition, other companies could independently develop similar or superior technology without violating our intellectual property rights. Any misappropriation of our technology or the development of competing technology could seriously harm our competitive position, which could lead to a substantial reduction in net sales. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, the proceedings could be burdensome, disruptive and expensive, distract the attention of management, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail. 15 Table of Contents Claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property rights could harm our business and financial condition. We cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents, patents that may be issued in the future, or other intellectual property rights of others. We do not conduct exhaustive patent searches to determine whether the technology used in our products infringes patents held by third parties. Any claim of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, even if the claim is invalid, and could distract the attention of our management. If any of our products are found to violate third-party proprietary rights, we may be required to pay substantial damages. In addition, we may be required to re-engineer our products or obtain licenses from third parties to continue to offer our products. Any efforts to re-engineer our products or obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms may not be successful, which would prevent us from selling our products, and, in any case, could substantially increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. Our stock price has historically been volatile. From April 1, 2006 to March 31, 2008, the trading price of our common stock ranged from $22.81 to $6.07. Many factors may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, including: • variations in our quarterly results of operations; • the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • the hiring or departure of key personnel; • acquisitions or strategic alliances involving us or our competitors; • changes in, or adoptions of, accounting principles; and • market conditions in our industries. In addition, the stock market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations, which are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Declines in the market price of our common stock may negatively impact our ability to make future strategic acquisitions, raise capital, issue debt or retain employees. The stock markets have experienced extreme price fluctuations that have affected the market price and trading volumes of many technology and telecommunications companies in particular, with potential consequential negative effects on the trading of securities of such companies. A major decline in the capital markets generally, or an adjustment in the market price or trading volumes of our common stock may negatively impact our ability to raise capital, issue debt, retain employees or make future strategic acquisitions. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions, and continued negative events within the technology sector, may in turn have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The testing of electronic communications equipment and the accurate transmission of information entail a risk of product liability claims by customers and others. Claims may be asserted against Micronetics by end-users of any of our products. We maintain product liability insurance coverage with an aggregate annual liability coverage limit, regardless of the number of occurrences, of $2.0 million. There is no assurance that such insurance will continue to be available at a 16 Table of Contents reasonable cost or will be sufficient to cover all possible liabilities. In the event of a successful suit against us, lack or insufficiency of insurance coverage could result in substantial cost and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our products with military applications are subject to export regulations, which may be costly. We are required to obtain export licenses before filling foreign orders for many of our products with military or other governmental applications. United States Export Administration regulations control high tech exports like our products for reasons of national security and compliance with foreign policy, to guarantee domestic reserves of products in short supply and, under certain circumstances, for the security of a destination country. Thus, any foreign sales of our products requiring export licenses must comply with these general policies. Although we have not experienced any significant export licensing problems to date, such problems may arise in the future. In addition, these regulations are subject to change, and any such change may require us to improve our technologies, incur expenses or both in order to comply with such regulations. We are subject to recently enacted environmental regulation, compliance with which may be costly. In 2006 the European Union (“EU”) implemented two new directives known as the Restriction on Certain Hazardous Substances Directive (RoHS) and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE). These directives place restrictions on the distribution within the EU of certain substances, and require a manufacturer to recycle products containing the restricted substances. We believe that the majority of our products are exempt from the directives because they are used for military purposes rather than by consumers. However, we may not be able to rely on such an exemption until regulators review documentation and issue a ruling on each product. We are redesigning our products that we believe may not be exempt from the directives in order to be able to continue to offer such products for sale in the EU. We may encounter unanticipated delays in the completion of the redesign or in the delivery of any products that are not exempt from the directives. In addition certain products that we maintain in inventory may be rendered obsolete if not in compliance with the directives and may have to be written off. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of the directives, they will likely result in additional costs or decreased revenue and could require that we redesign or change how we manufacture our products. Changes in the securities laws and regulations have increased, and are likely to continue to increase, our costs, and may also adversely affect our ability to attract and retain qualified directors. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. Pursuant to the requirements of that Act, the SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market have promulgated rules and listing standards covering a variety of subjects. Compliance with these new rules and listing standards has increased our legal costs, and increased our accounting and auditing costs, and we expect these costs to continue to increase, and to materially impact our financial results. In particular, we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial expense in the on-going evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting as we comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These changes in securities laws and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. Likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly independent directors, or qualified executive officers. Our common stock is thinly traded; therefore, our stock price may fluctuate more than the stock market as a whole. Although our shares are traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market, our stock is thinly traded. As a result, its market price may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole or the stock prices of similar companies. Without a larger float, our common stock will be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, and as a result, the trading prices for our common stock may be more volatile. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price than would be the case if the public float were larger. 17 Table of Contents If we or our independent registered public accounting firm are unable to affirm the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in future years, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our independent registered public accounting firm must audit and report on our internal controls over financial reporting as of March 31, 2010 and subsequent fiscal year end dates, respectively, and such report must be included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending March 31, 2010, and in subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K for subsequent years, respectively. We cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will be able to report that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective as of March 31, 2010 and subsequent fiscal year end dates, respectively. In this event, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the market value of our Common Stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 