Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating our business. If any of these risks, or other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not significant, develops into an actual event, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If that happens, the market price of our common stock could decline. We may be materially and adversely affected by reductions in spending by certain of our customers including the U.S. and foreign governments. Our results of operations may be materially adversely affected by the conditions in the global economy and the impact of those conditions on U.S. and foreign government spending. Among the factors that could impact U.S. and foreign government spending are: • a significant decline in, or reapportioning of, defense budgets; • changes, delays or cancellations of U.S. or foreign government programs or requirements; • the adoption of new laws or regulations that affect companies that provide services to the U.S. or foreign government; and • government shutdowns or other delays in the government appropriations process. In recent years, demand for our products has been favorably impacted by an upward trend in U.S. defense spending. Although the ultimate size of future defense budgets remains uncertain, current indications are that the total U.S. defense budget may decline over the next few years. Future defense budgets, however, may be impacted by numerous economic and political factors. In addition, the specific programs in which we participate, or in which we may seek to participate in the future, must compete with other programs for consideration during the budget formulation and appropriation processes. While we believe many of our products are used in high priority military/defense programs, one or more of the programs that we currently serve could be phased-out or terminated. Reductions in these existing programs, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, would adversely affect our future revenues and profitability. Our operating results have historically been subject to yearly and quarterly fluctuations and are expected to continue to fluctuate. Our operating results have historically been and are expected to continue to be subject to quarterly and yearly fluctuations as a result of a number of factors including: • our reliance on a limited number of customers for a large portion of our revenues; • our ability to successfully implement programs to stimulate sales by anticipating and offering the kinds of products and services customers will require in the future to increase the efficiency and profitability of their products; • our ability to successfully complete programs on a timely basis, to reduce our cost structure, including fixed costs, to streamline our operations and to reduce product costs; • our ability to focus our business on what we believe to be potentially higher growth, higher margin businesses and to dispose of or exit non-core businesses; • increased price and product competition in our markets; • the inherent uncertainties of using forecasts, estimates and assumptions for asset valuations and in determining the amounts of accrued liabilities and other items in our consolidated financial statements; • our ability to implement our work plan without negatively impacting our relationships with our customers, the delivery of products based on new and developing technologies, the delivery of high 10 Table of Contents quality products at competitive prices, the maintenance of technological leadership, the effectiveness of our internal processes and organizations and the retention of qualified personnel; • fluctuations in our gross margins; • the development, introduction and market acceptance of new technologies; • variations in sales channels, product costs and the mix of products sold; • the size and timing of customer orders and shipments; • our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels; • the impact of acquired businesses and technologies; • the impact of our product development schedules, product quality variances, manufacturing capacity and lead times required to produce our products; • changes in legislation, regulation and/or accounting rules; the impact of higher insurance premiums and deductibles and greater limitations on insurance coverage; and • acts of terrorism or the outbreak of hostilities or armed conflict between countries. There are a number of trends and factors which affect our markets, including economic conditions in the United States, Europe and globally, and are beyond our control. These trends and factors may result in reduced demand and pricing pressure on our products. There are trends and factors affecting our markets that are beyond our control and may affect our operations. Such trends and factors include: • adverse changes in the public and private equity and debt markets and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers and suppliers, to obtain financing or to fund working capital and capital expenditures; • reduced capital spending and/or negative economic conditions in the United States, Europe as well as other areas of the world; • adverse changes in our current credit condition or the credit quality of our customers and suppliers; • adverse changes in the market conditions in our markets; • the trend towards the sale of integrated products; • visibility to, and the actual size and timing of, capital expenditures by our customers; • inventory practices, including the timing of product and service deployment, of our customers; • policies of our customers regarding utilization of single or multiple vendors for the products they purchase; • the overall trend toward industry consolidation and rationalization among our customers, competitors and suppliers; • conditions in the broader market for military and communications products; • governmental regulation or intervention affecting our products; and • the effects of war and acts of terrorism, such as disruptions in general global economic activity, changes in logistics and security arrangements and reduced customer demand for our products and services. Our reliance on a limited number of customers for a large portion of our revenues could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Relatively few customers have accounted for a substantial portion of our net sales. During Fiscal 2012 our top three customers collectively accounted for 54% of our total net sales. We may not continue to receive significant revenues from any of these or from other large customers. Because of our significant customer concentration, our net sales and operating income could fluctuate significantly due to the loss of, reduction of 11 Table of Contents business with, or less favorable terms for any of our significant customers. A reduction or delay in orders from any of our significant customers, or a delay or default in payment by any significant customer could materially harm our results of operation and liquidity. Federal government contracts may be terminated by the federal government at any time prior to their completion which could lead to unexpected loss of sales and reduction in backlog. Under the terms of federal government contracts, the federal government may unilaterally: • terminate or modify existing contracts; • reduce the value of existing contracts through partial termination; and • delay the payment of our invoices by government payment offices. The federal government can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us or its prime contractors either for its convenience, or if we or its prime contractors default, by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and subcontracts. If the federal government or its prime contractors terminate and/or materially modify any of our contracts or if any applicable options are not exercised, our failure to replace sales generated from such contracts would result in lower sales and could adversely affect our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our backlog as of March 31, 2012 was approximately $26 million. Our backlog could be adversely affected if contracts are modified or terminated. We depend on single manufacturing lines for certain of our products, and any significant disruption in production could impair our ability to deliver our products. We currently manufacture and assemble our products at our various facilities using individual production lines for certain product categories. Any significant disruption to one of these production lines will require time either to reconfigure and equip an alternative production line or to restore the original line to full capacity. Some of our production processes are complex, and we may be unable to respond rapidly to the loss of the use of any production line. This could result in delayed shipments, which could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales and damage to our reputation. We depend on sole or limited source suppliers, and any disruption in supply could impair our ability to deliver our products on time or at expected cost. We obtain many key components for our products from third-party suppliers, and in some cases we obtain raw materials from a single or a limited number of suppliers. Interruptions in supply of components or other products from third-party suppliers could impair our ability to deliver our products until we identify a new source of supply, which could take several weeks, months or longer and could increase our costs significantly. In general, we do not have written long-term supply agreements with our suppliers but instead purchase components through purchase orders, which expose us to potential price increases and termination of supply without notice or recourse. If we are required to use a new source of materials or components, it could also result in unexpected manufacturing difficulties and could affect product performance and reliability. Our gross margins may be negatively affected, which in turn would negatively affect our operating results. Our gross margins may be negatively affected by a result of a number of factors, including: • increased price competition; • excess capacity or excess fixed assets; • customer and contract settlements; 12 Table of Contents • higher product, material or labor costs; • increased inventory provisions or contract and customer settlement costs; • warranty costs; • obsolescence charges; • loss of cost savings on future inventory purchases as a result of high inventory levels; • introductions of new products and costs of entering new markets; • increased levels of customer services; • changes in distribution channels; and • changes in product and geographic mix. Lower than expected gross margins would negatively affect our operating results. We may not be able to attract or retain the specialized technical and managerial personnel necessary to achieve our business objectives. Competition for certain key positions and specialized technical personnel in the high-technology industry is strong. We believe that our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel in a timely manner, particularly our Chief Executive Officer, other senior-executives and other key positions in our areas of potential growth. In addition, the loss of David Robbins, our Chief Executive Officer, or certain other senior executives, could harm our relations with our customers, our ability to respond to technological change and our business. We may also find it difficult to attract or retain qualified employees because of our size. In addition, if we have not properly sized our workforce and retained those employees with the appropriate skills, our ability to compete effectively may be adversely affected. If we are not successful in attracting and retaining qualified employees, in the future, we may not have the necessary personnel to effectively compete in the highly dynamic, specialized and volatile industry in which we operate or to achieve our business objectives. Future cash flow fluctuations may affect our ability to fund our working capital requirements or achieve our business objectives in a timely manner. Our working capital requirements and cash flows historically have been, and are expected to continue to be, subject to quarterly and yearly fluctuations, depending on such factors as timing and size of capital expenditures, levels of sales, timing of deliveries and collection of receivables, inventory levels, customer payment terms and supplier terms and conditions. We believe our cash on hand and availability under our line of credit will be sufficient to fund our current business model, and meet our customer commitments for at least the next 12 months. However, a greater than expected slow down in capital spending by our customers may require us to adjust our current business model. As a result, our revenues and cash flows may be materially lower than we expect and we may be required to reduce our capital expenditures and investments or take other measures in order to meet our cash requirements. We may seek additional funds from liquidity-generating transactions and other conventional sources of external financing (which may include a variety of debt, convertible debt and/or equity financings). We cannot provide any assurance that our net cash requirements will be as we currently expect. Our inability to manage cash flow fluctuations resulting from the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund our working capital requirements from operating cash flows and other sources of liquidity or to achieve our business objectives in a timely manner. Our business may be materially and adversely affected by increased levels of debt. In order to finance our business or to finance possible acquisitions we may incur significant levels of debt compared to historical levels, and we may need to secure additional sources of funding, which may include debt 13 Table of Contents or convertible debt financing, in the future. A high level of debt, arduous or restrictive terms and conditions relating to accessing certain sources of funding, failure to meet the financial and/or other covenants in our credit and/or support facilities and any significant reduction in, or access to, such facilities, poor business performance or lower than expected cash inflows could have adverse consequences on our ability to fund our business and the operation of our business. Other effects of a high level of debt include the following: • we may have difficulty borrowing money in the future or accessing sources of funding; • we may need to use a large portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash available to finance our operations and other business activities; • a high debt level, arduous or restrictive terms and conditions, or lower than expected cash flows would make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business; and • if operating cash flows are not sufficient to meet our operating expenses, capital expenditures and debt service requirements as they become due, we may be required, in order to meet our debt service obligations, to delay or reduce capital expenditures or the introduction of new products, sell assets and/or forego business opportunities including acquisitions, research and development projects or product design enhancements. We operate in highly dynamic and volatile industries characterized by changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and relatively short product life cycles. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and short product life cycles. We expect our success to depend, in substantial part, on the timely and successful introduction of high quality, new products and upgrades, as well as cost reductions on current products to address the operational speed, bandwidth, efficiency and cost requirements of our customers. Our success will also depend on our ability to comply with emerging industry standards, to operate with products of other suppliers, to address emerging market trends, to provide our customers with new revenue-generating opportunities and to compete with technological and product developments carried out by others. The development of new, technologically advanced products, is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. Investments in such development may result in expenses growing at a faster rate than revenues, particularly since the initial investment to bring a product to market may be high. We may not be successful in targeting new market opportunities, in developing and commercializing new products in a timely manner or in achieving market acceptance for our new products. The success of new or enhanced products depends on a number of other factors, including the timely introduction of such products, market acceptance of new technologies and industry standards, the quality and robustness of new or enhanced products, competing product offerings, the pricing and marketing of such products and the availability of funding for such networks. Products and technologies developed by our competitors may render our products obsolete. If we fail to respond in a timely and effective manner to unanticipated changes in one or more of the technologies affecting telecommunications or our new products or product enhancements fail to achieve market acceptance, our ability to compete effectively in our industry, and our sales, market share and customer relationships could be materially and adversely affected. We face significant competition and may not be able to increase or maintain our market share and may suffer from competitive pricing practices. We operate in an industry that is characterized by industry rationalization and consolidation, vigorous competition for market share and rapid technological development. Competition is heightened in periods of slow 14 Table of Contents overall market growth. These factors could result in aggressive pricing practices and growing competition from niche companies, established competitors, as well as well-capitalized companies, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our gross margins. We expect that we will face additional competition from existing competitors and from a number of companies that have entered or may enter our existing and future markets. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater marketing, technical and financial resources, including access to capital markets and/or the ability to provide customer financing in connection with the sale of products. Many of our current and potential competitors have also established, or may in the future establish, relationships with our current and potential customers. Other competitive factors include the ability to provide new technologies and products, end-to-end solutions, and new product features, as well as conformance to industry standards. Increased competition could result in price reductions, negatively affecting our operating results, reducing profit margins and potentially leading to a loss of market share. The testing of electronic communications equipment and the accurate transmission of information entail a risk of product liability claims by customers and others. Product liability claims may be asserted against us by end-users of any of our products. We maintain product liability insurance coverage with an aggregate annual liability coverage limit, regardless of the number of occurrences, of $2.0 million. There is no assurance that such insurance will continue to be available at a reasonable cost or will be sufficient to cover all possible liabilities. In the event of a successful suit against us, lack or insufficiency of insurance coverage could result in substantial cost and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our products with military applications are subject to export regulations, which may be costly. We are required to obtain export licenses before filling foreign orders for many of our products with military or other governmental applications. United States Export Administration regulations control high tech exports like our products for reasons of national security and compliance with foreign policy, to guarantee domestic reserves of products in short supply and, under certain circumstances, for the security of a destination country. Thus, any foreign sales of our products requiring export licenses must comply with these general policies. In addition, these regulations are subject to change, and any such change may require us to improve our technologies, incur expenses or both in order to comply with such regulations. We design custom products to meet specific requirements of our customers. The uncertain nature of the development cycle for custom products can result in variability in the timing of our receipt of revenue from such products. The design and sales cycle for our custom products, from initial contact by our sales force to the commencement of shipments of those products may be lengthy. In this process, our sales and application engineers work closely with the customer to analyze the customer’s system requirements and establish a technical specification for the custom product. We then select a process, evaluate components, and establish assembly and test procedures before manufacturing can begin. The length of this cycle is influenced by many factors, including the difficulty of the technical specification, the novelty and complexity of the design and the customer’s procurement processes. Our customers typically do not commit to purchase significant quantities of the custom product until they are ready to commence volume shipments of their own system or equipment. Our receipt of substantial revenue from sales of a custom product often depends on that customer’s commercial success in manufacturing and selling its system or equipment that incorporates our custom product. As a result, a significant period may elapse between our investment of time and resources in designing and developing a custom product and our receipt of substantial revenue from sales of that custom product. The length of this process may increase the risk that a customer will decide to cancel or change its plans related to its system or equipment. Such a cancellation or change in plans by a customer could cause us to lose anticipated sales. In addition, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially 15 Table of Contents adversely affected if a significant customer curtails, reduces or delays orders during our sales cycle, chooses not to release its system or equipment that contains our custom products, or is not successful in the sale and marketing of its system or equipment that contains our custom products. We have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions in order to enhance our business. If we are not successful in operating or integrating these acquisitions, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. In the past, we acquired companies to enhance the expansion of our business and products. We may consider additional acquisitions which could involve significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include: • the risk that the industry may develop in a different direction than anticipated and that the technologies we acquire do not prove to be those we need to be successful in the industry; • the risk that future valuations of acquired businesses may decrease from the market price we paid for these acquisitions; • the generation of insufficient revenues by acquired businesses to offset increased operating expenses associated with these acquisitions; • the potential difficulties in completing in-process research and development projects and delivering high quality products to our customers; • the potential difficulties in integrating new products, businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner; • the risk that our customers or customers of the acquired businesses may defer purchase decisions as they evaluate the impact of the acquisitions on our future product strategy; • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; • the risk that acquired businesses will divert the attention of our senior management from the operation of our business; and • the risks of entering new markets in which we have limited experience and where competitors may have a stronger market presence. Our inability to successfully operate and integrate newly-acquired businesses appropriately, effectively and in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our ability to take advantage of further growth in demand for products in our marketplace, as well as on our revenues, gross margins and expenses. If we cannot effectively manage our growth, our business may suffer. We have previously expanded our operations through acquisitions in order to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. If we fail to manage our growth properly, we may incur unnecessary expenses and the efficiency of our operations may decline. To manage our growth effectively, we must, among other things: • successfully attract, train, motivate and manage a larger number of employees for production and testing, engineering and administration activities; • control higher inventory and working capital requirements; and • improve the efficiencies within our operating, administrative, financial and accounting systems, and our procedures and controls. 16 Table of Contents Claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property rights could harm our business and financial condition. We cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents, patents that may be issued in the future, or other intellectual property rights of others. We do not conduct exhaustive patent searches to determine whether the technology used in our products infringes patents held by third parties. Any claim of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, even if the claim is invalid, and could distract the attention of our management. If any of our products are found to violate third-party proprietary rights, we may be required to pay substantial damages. In addition, we may be required to re-engineer our products or obtain licenses from third parties to continue to offer our products. Any efforts to re-engineer our products or obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms may not be successful, which would prevent us from selling our products, and, in any case, could substantially increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. Our stock price has historically been volatile. From April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2012, the trading price of our common stock ranged from $3.75 to $9.19. Many factors may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, including: • variations in our quarterly results of operations; • the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • the hiring or departure of key personnel; • acquisitions or strategic alliances involving us or our competitors; • changes in, or adoptions of, accounting principles; and • market conditions in our industries. In addition, the stock market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations, which are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our common stock is thinly traded; therefore, our stock price may fluctuate more than the stock market as a whole. Although our shares are traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market, our stock is thinly traded. As a result, its market price may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole or the stock prices of similar companies. Without a larger float, our common stock will be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, and as a result, the trading prices for our common stock may be more volatile. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price than would be the case if the public float were larger. Declines in the market price of our common stock may negatively impact our ability to make future strategic acquisitions, raise capital, issue debt or retain employees. The stock markets have experienced extreme price fluctuations that have affected the market price and trading volumes of many technology and telecommunications companies in particular, with potential consequential negative effects on the trading of securities of such companies. A major decline in the capital markets generally, or an adjustment in the market price or trading volumes of our common stock may negatively impact our ability to raise capital, issue debt, retain employees or make future strategic acquisitions. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions, and continued negative events within the technology sector, may in turn have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents We are subject to environmental regulation and compliance which may be costly. Certain of our products may be rendered obsolete due to environmental directives and could require that we redesign or change how we manufacture our products. This could result in additional costs and expense, shipment delays and possible inventory obsolescence. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 