ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. If any of the following risks occur, the Company's business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additionally, risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently deems immaterial also may impair its business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows in the future. - -------- (dollars in thousands, except share data) 6 THE COMPANY MAY PURSUE TRANSACTIONS THAT MAY CAUSE IT TO EXPERIENCE SIGNIFICANT CHARGES TO EARNINGS THAT MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT ITS STOCK PRICE AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. The Company regularly reviews potential transactions related to technologies, products, product rights and businesses complementary to its business. These transactions could include mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances or licensing agreements. In the future, the Company may choose to enter into these transactions at any time. As a result of acquiring businesses or entering into other significant transactions, the Company has previously experienced, and may continue to experience, significant charges to earnings for merger and related expenses that may include transaction costs, closure costs or costs related to the write-off of acquired in-process research and development. These costs may also include substantial fees for investment bankers, attorneys, accountants, financial printing costs, severance and other closure costs associated with the elimination of duplicate or discontinued products, employees, operations and facilities. IF THE COMPANY MAKES ACQUISITIONS, IT MAY EXPERIENCE DIFFICULTY INTEGRATING THE BUSINESSES. The Company continually explores and conducts discussions with many third parties regarding possible acquisitions. The Company's ability to continue to achieve its goals may depend upon its ability to effectively integrate such businesses, to achieve cost efficiencies and to manage these businesses as part of Cambrex. However, the Company may experience difficulty integrating the merged companies. As a result of uncertainty following an acquisition and during the integration process, the Company could experience disruption in its business or employee base. If the Company is not able to successfully blend its products and technologies with the acquired business to create the advantages the acquisition was intended to create, it may affect the Company's results of operations, its ability to develop and introduce new products and the market price of its common stock. Furthermore, there may be overlap between the Company's products, services or customers, and the combined company may create conflicts in relationships or other commitments detrimental to the integrated businesses. IF THE COMPANY FAILS TO IMPROVE THE OPERATIONS OF FUTURE ACQUIRED BUSINESSES, IT MAY BE UNABLE TO ACHIEVE OUR GROWTH STRATEGY. Some of the businesses the Company may acquire could have significantly lower operating margins than the Company does prior to the time of acquisition. In the past, the Company has occasionally experienced temporary delays in improving the operating margins of these acquired businesses. In the future, if the Company is unable to improve the operating margins of acquired businesses or operate them profitably, it may be unable to achieve its growth strategy. COMPANIES MAY DISCONTINUE OR DECREASE THEIR USAGE OF CAMBREX'S SERVICES. The Company has observed increasing pressure on the part of its customers to reduce spending, including the use of its services and products, as a result of negative macro-economic trends and various market dynamics specifically affecting the pharmaceutical industry. These customers could discontinue or decrease their usage of Cambrex's services and products, including as a result of an economic slowdown in the overall United States or foreign economies. COMPETITION OR A REDUCTION IN DEMAND FOR CAMBREX'S PRODUCTS COULD REDUCE SALES. The markets for the Company's products are competitive and price sensitive. Other suppliers have significant financial, operational, sales and marketing resources, and experience in R&D. These and other companies may have developed or could in the future develop new technologies that would compete with the Company's products or render its products obsolete. Several of Cambrex's customers, especially those that buy its generic APIs, have recently vertically integrated and now have internal capabilities similar to Cambrex's. In addition, demand for the Company's products may weaken due to a reduction in research and development budgets, loss of distributors or other factors. - -------- (dollars in thousands, except share data) 7 The markets for certain Cambrex products are also subject to specific competitive risks and can be highly price competitive. The Company's competitors have competed in the past by lowering prices on certain products. The Company's competitors may lower prices on these or other products in the future and the Company may, in certain cases, respond by lowering its prices. Conversely, failure to anticipate and respond to price competition may hurt Cambrex's market share. The Company believes that customers in its markets display loyalty to their initial supplier of a particular product. Therefore, it may be difficult to generate sales to potential customers who have purchased products from competitors. To the extent the Company is unable to be the first to develop and supply new products, our competitive position may suffer. THE COMPANY'S FAILURE TO OBTAIN NEW CONTRACTS OR RENEW EXISTING CONTRACTS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT ITS BUSINESS. Many of Cambrex's contracts are short-term in duration. As a result, the Company must continually replace its contracts with new contracts to sustain its revenue. In addition, certain of the Company's long-term contracts may be cancelled or delayed by clients for any reason upon notice. The Company currently has a long-term sales contract that accounts for 10% of sales that is scheduled to expire at the end of 2013. There is no guarantee that this contract will be renewed. The Company also has a contract for certain drug delivery products that accounts for nearly 4% of sales that expires in September of 2009. While the Company currently believes it will renew the contract, and that it has intellectual property that increases the likelihood of renewal, there is no guarantee that this contract will be renewed and that if it is renewed, that the profitability will not be negatively impacted going forward. CAMBREX'S OPERATING RESULTS MAY UNEXPECTEDLY FLUCTUATE IN FUTURE PERIODS. The Company's revenue and operating results have fluctuated, and could continue to fluctuate, on a quarterly basis. The operating results for a particular quarter may be lower than expected as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the timing of contracts; the delay or cancellation of a contract; the mix of services provided; seasonal slowdowns in different parts of the world; the timing of start-up expenses for new services and facilities; changes in government regulations; and unfavorable exchange rates with the U.S. dollar. Because a high percentage of the Company's costs are relatively fixed in the short term, such as the cost of maintaining facilities and compensating employees, any one of these factors could have a significant impact on the Company's quarterly results. In some quarters, the Company's revenue and operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to any of the factors described above. In such event, the trading price of the Company's common stock would likely decline, even if the decline in revenue did not have any long-term adverse implications for the Company's business. FAILURE TO OBTAIN PRODUCTS AND RAW MATERIALS FROM THIRD-PARTY MANUFACTURERS COULD AFFECT CAMBREX'S ABILITY TO MANUFACTURE AND DELIVER ITS PRODUCTS. The Company relies on third-party manufacturers to supply many of its raw materials, and in some cases, entire products. In addition, the Company has a single source for supplies of some raw materials to our products. Manufacturing problems may occur with these and other outside sources. If such problems occur, the Company cannot ensure that it will be able to manufacture its products profitably or on time. ANY SIGNIFICANT CHANGE IN GOVERNMENT REGULATION OF THE DRUG DEVELOPMENT PROCESS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE COMPANY. The manufacturing of pharmaceutical products is subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities, including the FDA and comparable regulatory authorities in other countries. The Company's business depends in part on strict government regulation of the drug development process. Legislation may be introduced and enacted from time to time to modify regulations administered by the FDA and governing the drug approval process. Any significant reduction in the scope of regulatory requirements or the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. - -------- (dollars in thousands, except share data) 8 VIOLATIONS OF CGMP AND OTHER GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE COMPANY. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used for manufacturing products for clinical use or for commercial sale in the United States must be operated in conformity with cGMP regulations as required by the FDA and for certain products, the Drug Enforcement Agency. The Company's facilities are subject to scheduled periodic regulatory and customer inspections to ensure compliance with cGMP and other requirements applicable to such products. A finding that the Company had materially violated these requirements could result in regulatory sanctions, the loss of a customer contract, the disqualification of data for client submissions to regulatory authorities and a mandated closing of the Company's facilities. Any such violations would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. Cambrex's customers are typically subject to the same, or similar, regulations and any such violations or other actions by regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, plant shutdowns or product recalls, that eliminate or reduce the Company's sale of it's products or services could negatively impact the Company's business. LITIGATION MAY HARM THE COMPANY OR OTHERWISE NEGATIVELY IMPACT ITS MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL RESOURCES. Complex or extended litigation could cause the Company to incur large expenditures and distract our management. For example, lawsuits by employees, stockholders, counterparties to acquisition and divestiture contracts, collaborators, distributors, customers, or end-users of our products or services could be very costly and substantially disrupt our business. Disputes from time to time with such companies or individuals are not uncommon, and the Company cannot be assured that it will always be able to resolve such disputes out of court or on terms favorable to the Company. Refer to Note 18 for a discussion of the Company's environmental and legal matters. LOSS OF KEY PERSONNEL COULD HURT THE COMPANY. The Company depends on a number of key executives. The loss of services of any of the Company's key executives could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. The Company also depends on its ability to attract and retain qualified scientific and technical employees. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to retain its existing scientific and technical employees, or to attract and retain additional qualified employees. The Company's inability to attract and retain qualified scientific and technical employees would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. POTENTIAL PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS, ERRORS AND OMISSIONS CLAIMS IN CONNECTION WITH SERVICES THE COMPANY PERFORMS AND POTENTIAL LIABILITY UNDER INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND ITS OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY. The Company manufactures products intended for use by the public. These activities could expose the Company to risk of liability for personal injury or death to persons using such products, although the Company does not presently market or sell the products to end users. The Company seeks to reduce its potential liability through measures such as contractual indemnification provisions with clients (the scope of which may vary from client-to-client, and the performances of which are not secured), exclusion of services requiring diagnostic or other medical services, and insurance maintained by clients. The Company could be materially and adversely affected if it were required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope of the indemnification agreements, if the indemnity, although applicable, is not performed in accordance with its terms or if the Company's liability exceeds the amount of applicable insurance or indemnity. In addition, the Company could be held liable for errors and omissions in connection with the services it performs. The Company currently maintains product liability and errors and omissions insurance with respect to these risks. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company's insurance coverage will be adequate or that insurance coverage will continue to be available on terms acceptable to the Company. - -------- (dollars in thousands, except share data) 9 The Company also indemnifies its officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is, or was serving, at the Company's request in such capacity. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, the Company has a "Director and Officer" insurance policy that covers a portion of any potential exposure. The Company could be materially and adversely affected if it were required to pay damages or incur legal costs in connection with a claim above its insurance limits. ASSESSMENTS BY VARIOUS TAX AUTHORITIES MAY BE MATERIALLY DIFFERENT THAN THE COMPANY HAS PROVIDED FOR AND IT MAY EXPERIENCE SIGNIFICANT VOLATILITY IN ITS ANNUAL AND QUARTERLY EFFECTIVE TAX RATE. As a matter of course, the Company is regularly audited by federal, state, and foreign tax authorities. From time to time, these audits result in proposed assessments. In recent years, the Company utilized significant tax attributes in the form of foreign tax credits and U.S. net operating loss ("NOLs") carryforwards to reduce or eliminate potential tax expense related to the repatriation of funds into the U.S. resulting from the 2005 Jobs Creation Act and from a large divestiture of its biotechnology-related businesses in 2007. While the Company believes that it has adequately provided for any taxes related to these items, and taxes related to all other aspects of its business, any such assessments or future settlements may be materially different than it has provided. In recent years, as described more fully in Note 9, the Company has recorded a valuation allowance against all net domestic and certain foreign deferred tax assets. Until such time as the Company's domestic and certain foreign profitability is restored and considered by management to be sustainable for the foreseeable future, the Company will not record the income tax benefit or expense for domestic pre-tax losses and income respectively, and as such will likely experience significant volatility in its effective tax rate. THE COMPANY HAS A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF DEBT. The Company has a $200,000 revolving credit facility of which $123,800 was outstanding at December 31, 2008. This facility expires in April of 2012. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on the credit facility, it will be in default. Even if the Company is able to meet its debt service obligations, the amount of debt it has could adversely affect the Company in a number of ways, including: - limiting its ability to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, or other purposes; - limiting its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the Company; - placing it at a disadvantage relative to its competitors who have lower levels of debt; - making it more vulnerable to a downturn in its business or the economy generally; and - requiring it to use a substantial portion of its cash to pay principal and interest on its debt, instead of investing those funds in the business. VOLATILE FINANCIAL MARKETS COULD AFFECT THE COMPANY'S CASH FLOWS The Company believes that cash flows from operations along with funds available from a revolving line of credit will be adequate to meet the operational and debt servicing needs of the Company, but no assurances can be given that this will continue to be the case. Given the current state of the worldwide credit markets, there is a risk that the funds available to be drawn under the Company's revolving line of credit may not be available in the event of the failure of one or more participant banks. The Company's cash flow from future operations may be adversely affected by various factors including, but not limited to, declines in customer demand, increased competition, the deterioration in general economic and business conditions, returns on assets within the Company's domestic pension plans that are significantly below expected performance, as well as other factors. - -------- (dollars in thousands, except share data) 10 INTERNATIONAL UNREST OR FOREIGN CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY'S RESULTS. The Company's international revenues, which include revenues from its non- U.S. subsidiaries and export sales from the U.S., represented 77% and 79% of its product revenues in 2008 and 2007, respectively. There are a number of risks arising from the Company's international business, including: - foreign currencies it receives for sales outside the U.S. could be subject to unfavorable exchange rates with the U.S. dollar and reduce the amount of revenue that the Company recognizes; - the possibility that unfriendly nations or groups could boycott its products; - general economic and political conditions in the markets in which it operate; - potential increased costs associated with overlapping tax structures; - more limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; - unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; - the difficulties of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; - longer accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries; and - import and export licensing requirements. A significant portion of the Company's business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which is its reporting currency. The Company recognizes foreign currency gains or losses arising from its operations in the period incurred. As a result, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which the Company does business have caused, and will continue to cause, foreign currency transaction gains and losses. The Company cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures, and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. The Company engages in limited foreign exchange hedging transactions to mitigate the impact of this volatility on its operations, but its strategies are short-term in nature and may not adequately protect its operating results from the full effects of exchange rate fluctuations. THE MARKET PRICE OF CAMBREX'S STOCK COULD BE VOLATILE. The market price of the Company's common stock fluctuates substantially due to a variety of factors, including: - quarterly fluctuations in its operating income and earnings per share results; - technological innovations or new product introductions by the Company or competitors; - economic conditions; - disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights; - changes in earnings estimates and market growth rate projections by market research analysts; - sales of common stock by existing holders; - loss of key personnel; and - securities class actions or other litigation. The market price for the Company's common stock may also be affected by the Company's ability to meet any guidance that it may, from time to time, publicly announce related to our expected sales growth, profitability and other financial and operational metrics, and its ability to meet analysts' expectations. In addition, the stock market is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. - -------- (dollars in thousands, except share data) 11 INCIDENTS RELATED TO HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY. Portions of the Company's operations require the controlled use of hazardous materials. Although the Company is diligent in designing and implementing safety procedures to comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state, and local regulations, the risk of accidental contamination of property or injury to individuals from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an incident, the Company could be liable for any damages that result, which could adversely affect its business. Additionally, any incident could partially or completely shut down the Company's research and manufacturing facilities and operations. The Company generates waste that must be transported to approved storage, treatment and disposal facilities. The transportation and disposal of such waste are required to meet applicable state and federal statutes and regulations. The storage, treatment and disposal of such waste potentially exposes the Company to environmental liability if, in the future, such transportation and disposal are deemed to have violated such statues or regulations or if the storage, treatment and disposal facilities are inadequate and are proved to have damaged the environment. The Company is also party to several environmental remediation investigations and cleanups and, along with other companies, has been named a "potential responsible party" for certain waste disposal sites. The Company has also retained the liabilities with respect to certain pre-closing environmental matters associated with the sale of the Rutherford Chemicals business. Refer to Note 18 for a discussion of the Company's environmental matters. THE POSSIBILITY THE COMPANY WILL BE UNABLE TO PROTECT ITS TECHNOLOGIES COULD AFFECT ITS ABILITY TO COMPETE. The Company's success depends to a significant degree upon its ability to develop proprietary products and technologies. However, the Company cannot be assured that patents will be granted on any of its patent applications. The Company also cannot be assured that the scope of any of its issued patents will be sufficiently broad to offer meaningful protection. The Company has patents issued in selected countries, therefore, third parties can make, use, and sell products covered by its patents in any country in which the Company does not have patent protection. In addition, issued patents or patents the Company licenses could be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented so that its patent rights would not create an effective competitive barrier. The Company provides its customers the right to use its products under label licenses that are for research purposes only. These licenses could be contested, and the Company cannot be assured that it would either be aware of an unauthorized use or be able to enforce the restrictions in a cost-effective manner. If a third party claimed an intellectual property right to technology the Company uses, it may need to discontinue an important product or product line, alter its products and processes, defend its right to use such technology in court or pay license fees. Although the Company may, under these circumstances, attempt to obtain a license to such intellectual property, it may not be able to do so on favorable terms, or at all. Additionally, if Cambrex's products are found to infringe on a third party's intellectual property, the Company may be required to pay damages for past infringement, and lose the ability to sell certain products or receive licensing revenues. COMPLIANCE WITH CHANGING REGULATION OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE MAY RESULT IN ADDITIONAL EXPENSE. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, are creating uncertainty for companies. These new or changed laws and standards are subject to multiple interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specification. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies which could result in higher costs necessitated by revisions to disclosures and governance practices. The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result of the efforts to comply with the evolving laws and regulations increased general and administrative expenses have been experienced and are likely to continue. - -------- (dollars in thousands, except share data) 12 AVAILABLE INFORMATION This annual report on Form 10-K, the Company's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, the Company's current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are made available free of charge on the Company's Internet website www.cambrex.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The most recent certifications by the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are filed as exhibits to this Annual report on Form 10-K. Last year the Company filed with the New York Stock Exchange the Annual Chief Executive Officer Certification as required by Section 303A.12.(a) of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual. Reports filed by the Company with the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The following corporate governance documents are available free of charge on the Company's website: the charters of our Audit, Regulatory Affairs, Compensation and Governance Committees, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. These corporate governance documents are also available in print to any stockholder requesting a copy from our corporate secretary at our principal executive offices. Information contained on our website is not part of this report. We will also post on our website any amendments to or waivers of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that relate to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 