Item 1A. Risk Factors. Factors That May Affect Future Results The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. If any of the following risks occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additionally, risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently deems immaterial also may impair its business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows in the future. Risks Relating to Cambrex’s Business Companies may discontinue or decrease their usage of Cambrex’s services. The Company has observed increasing pressure on the part of its customers to reduce costs, including the use of its services and products, as a result of macro-economic trends and various market dynamics specifically affecting the pharmaceutical industry. These customers could discontinue or decrease their usage of Cambrex’s services and products. New technologies, competition or a reduction in demand for Cambrex’s products could reduce sales. The markets for the Company’s products are competitive and price sensitive. The Company’s competitors may lower prices on products in the future and the Company may, in certain cases, respond by lowering its prices. Conversely, failure to anticipate and respond to price competition may hurt Cambrex’s market share. Some of the Company’s competitors also have significant financial, operational and sales and marketing resources which may reduce the Company’s level of business. Companies may develop new technologies that would compete with the Company’s products or render its products obsolete. Several of Cambrex’s customers, especially those that buy its generic APIs, have internal capabilities similar to Cambrex’s. In addition, demand for the Company’s products may weaken due to a reduction in R&D budgets, loss of distributors or other factors. ____________ (dollars in thousands, except share data) 9 Index The Company’s failure to obtain new contracts or renew existing contracts may adversely affect its business. Many of Cambrex’s contracts are short term in duration. As a result, the Company must continually replace its contracts with new contracts to sustain its revenue. In addition, certain of the Company’s long-term contracts may be cancelled or delayed by clients for any reason upon notice. Multiple cancellations or non-renewals of significant contracts could materially impact the Company’s business. Failure to obtain products and raw materials from third-party manufacturers could affect Cambrex’s ability to manufacture and deliver its products. The Company relies on third-party manufacturers to supply many of its raw materials and intermediates. In addition, the Company has a single source for supplies of some raw materials to its products. Manufacturing problems may occur with these and other outside sources. If such problems occur, the Company cannot ensure that it will be able to manufacture its products profitably or on time. Disruptions to the Company’s or its customers’ manufacturing operations could adversely affect its results. Due to heavy reliance on manufacturing and related operations to produce and distribute the products the Company sells, the Company could be adversely affected by disruptions to these operations or its customers’ operations. Any significant disruption to those operations for any reason, such as labor unrest, terrorism, power interruptions, fire, or other events beyond the Company’s control could adversely affect its sales and customer relationships. While insurance coverage may reimburse the Company in part for profits lost from such disruptions, any sustained reduction in the Company’s ability to provide these products would negatively impact its sales growth expectations, cash flows and profitability. Failure to win early stage business opportunities can cause difficulty in winning future opportunities with that potential customer. Certain products the Company sells are incorporated into its customers’ drug manufacturing processes. In some cases, once a customer chooses a particular product for use in a drug manufacturing process, it is unlikely that the customer will later switch to a competing alternative. In many cases, the regulatory approvals related to a drug product will specify the products qualified for use in its making. Obtaining the regulatory approvals needed for a change in the manufacturing process is time consuming, expensive and uncertain. Accordingly, if a customer does not select the Company’s products or services early in its manufacturing design phase for any number of reasons, the Company may lose the opportunity to participate in the customer’s manufacturing of such product. Because the Company faces competition in this market from other companies, it is possible that its competitors could win significant early business with customers making it difficult for the Company to recover late-stage opportunities with higher volumes. Litigation may harm the Company or otherwise negatively impact its management and financial resources. Complex or extended litigation could cause the Company to incur large expenditures and distract its management. For example, lawsuits by employees, stockholders, counterparties to acquisition and divestiture contracts, collaborators, distributors, customers, or end-users of the Company’s products or services could be very costly and substantially disrupt its business. Disputes from time to time with such companies or individuals are not uncommon, and the Company cannot be assured that it will always be able to resolve such disputes out of court or on terms favorable to the Company. Refer to Note 20 for a discussion of the Company’s environmental and legal matters. ____________ (dollars in thousands, except share data) 10 Index Incidents related to hazardous materials could adversely affect the Company. Portions of the Company’s operations require the controlled use of hazardous materials. Although the Company is diligent in designing and implementing safety procedures to comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state, local and foreign regulations, including the European Commission’s Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals (“REACH”) regulation, the risk of accidental contamination of property or injury to individuals from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an incident, the Company could be liable for any damages which could adversely affect its business. Additionally, any incident could shut down the Company’s research and manufacturing facilities and operations. The Company generates waste that must be transported to approved storage, treatment and disposal facilities. The transportation and disposal of such waste are required to meet applicable state and federal statutes and regulations. The storage, treatment and disposal of such waste potentially exposes the Company to environmental liability if, in the future, such transportation and disposal are deemed to have violated such statutes or regulations or if the storage, treatment and disposal facilities are inadequate and are proved to have damaged the environment. The Company is also party to several environmental remediation investigations and cleanups and, along with other companies, has been named a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) for certain waste disposal sites. Refer to Note 20 for a discussion of the Company’s environmental and legal matters. Potential product liability claims, errors and omissions claims in connection with services the Company performs and potential liability under indemnification agreements between the Company and its officers and directors could adversely affect the Company. The Company manufactures products intended for use by the public. These activities could expose the Company to risk of liability for personal injury or death to persons using such products. The Company seeks to reduce its potential liability through measures such as contractual indemnification provisions with customers (the scope of which may vary by customer, and the performances of which are not secured) and insurance maintained by customers. The Company could be materially and adversely affected if it were required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope of the indemnification agreements, if the indemnity, although applicable, is not performed in accordance with its terms or if the Company’s liability exceeds the amount of applicable insurance or indemnity. In addition, the Company could be held liable for errors and omissions in connection with the services it performs. The Company currently maintains product liability and errors and omissions insurance with respect to these risks. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company’s insurance coverage will be adequate or that insurance coverage will continue to be available on terms acceptable to the Company. The Company also indemnifies its officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is, or was, serving at the Company’s request in such capacity. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, the Company has a director and officer insurance policy that covers a portion of any potential exposure. The Company could be materially and adversely affected if it were required to pay damages or incur legal costs in connection with a claim above its insurance limits. While the Company has what it believes to be adequate insurance coverage, any claims beyond its insurance coverage may result in substantial costs and a reduction in its available capital resources. The Company maintains property insurance policies covering physical damage to its equipment, facilities, buildings and inventory; employer’s liability insurance generally covering death or work injury of employees; product liability insurance covering product liability claims arising from the use, consumption or operation of its products; general liability insurance covering certain incidents to third parties that occur on or in the premises of the Company; business interruption insurance, and directors and officers liability insurance, among others. The Company does not maintain key man life insurance on any of its senior management or key personnel. The Company’s insurance coverage, however, may not be sufficient to cover any claim for product liability, damage to its fixed assets or injury to its employees. ____________ (dollars in thousands, except share data) 11 Index Loss of key personnel could hurt the Company. The Company depends on its ability to attract and retain qualified scientific and technical employees as well as a number of key executives. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to retain key personnel, or to attract and retain additional qualified employees. The Company’s inability to attract and retain key personnel would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company has made significant capital investments to its facilities to meet its potential future needs and, as a result, the Company depends on the success of attracting new and retaining existing customers’ projects and their continued business. The Company has recently made substantial investments in all of its manufacturing facilities. With the completion of these new facilities, the Company’s fixed costs have increased. If the Company is not able to utilize the facilities to capacity, its margins could be adversely affected. Global growth is subject to a number of economic risks. The tightening of credit in financial markets in recent years adversely affects the ability of the Company’s customers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for its products and services as well as impact the ability of the Company’s customers to make payments. The Company believes that cash flows from operations, along with funds available from a revolving line of credit, will be adequate to meet the operational and debt servicing needs of the Company, but no assurances can be given that this will continue to be the case. There is a risk that the funds available to be drawn under the Company’s revolving line of credit may not be available in the event of the failure of one or more participant banks. Strengthening of the rate of exchange for the U.S. dollar against certain major currencies such as the Euro, Swedish krona and other currencies may also adversely affects the Company’s results. If the Company acquires other companies, its business may be harmed by difficulties in integration and employee retention, unidentified liabilities of the acquired companies, or obligations incurred in connection with acquisition financings. All acquisitions involve known and unknown risks that could adversely affect the Company’s future revenues and operating results. For example: · The Company may fail to successfully integrate its acquisitions in accordance with its business strategy. · The initial rationale for the acquisition may not remain viable due to a variety of factors, including unforeseen regulatory changes and market dynamics after the acquisition, and this may result in a significant delay and/or reduction in the profitability of the acquisition. · Integration of acquisitions may divert management’s attention away from the Company’s primary product offerings, resulting in the loss of key customers and/or personnel, and may expose the Company to unanticipated liabilities. · The Company may not be able to retain the skilled employees and experienced management that may be necessary to operate the businesses it acquires. If the Company cannot retain such personnel, it may not be able to locate or hire new skilled employees and experienced management to replace them. · Cambrex may purchase a company that has contingent liabilities that include, among others, known or unknown patent or product liability claims. · The Company’s acquisition strategy may require it to obtain additional debt or equity financing, resulting in additional leverage, or increased debt obligations as compared to equity, and dilution of ownership. · Cambrex may purchase companies located in jurisdictions where it does not have operations and as a result it may not be able to anticipate local regulations and the impact such regulations have on its business. ____________ (dollars in thousands, except share data) 12 Index In addition, if the Company makes one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration includes equity shares or other securities, equity interests in Cambrex held by holders of the equity shares may be significantly diluted and may result in a dilution of earnings per equity share. If the Company makes one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration includes cash, it may be required to use a substantial portion of its available cash or incur a significant amount of debt or otherwise arrange additional funds to complete the acquisition, which may result in reduced liquidity, a decrease in its net income and a consequential reduction in its earnings per equity share. There are risks associated with the Company’s recent acquisition of a 51% equity stake in Zenara including, but not limited to, Cambrex’s ability to achieve its goals established for that business and fund its obligation to purchase the remaining 49% in 2016. In November 2010, the Company purchased 51% of the equity in Zenara for approximately $18,900, and is required to purchase the remaining 49% in 2016 based upon a formula derived from Zenara’s future EBITDA. The Company may, at its option, purchase the remaining equity in cash or a combination of cash and up to 50% of the consideration in Cambrex stock. To the extent Zenara has significant EBITDA over the next five years, substantial consideration will be required to purchase the remaining 49%. A large cash payment could require borrowing under the Company’s credit facility and, since the Company’s credit facility will need to be refinanced prior to its expiration in April 2012, there is no guarantee that the Company’s future credit arrangements will facilitate the future purchase of the remaining 49% in 2016. Additionally, the uncertainty regarding the amount of consideration required for the 2016 buyout of the 49% may impact the Company’s future borrowing ability, result in higher interest expense, or possibly result in difficulty securing any credit arrangements in the future. Additionally, issuance of any stock to satisfy a portion of this obligation could have a dilutive effect on holders of Cambrex common stock. In the event that Cambrex is unable to compensate the 49% equity holder for its shares in 2016, the 49% shareholder has certain rights, including the right to force a sale of Zenara to a third party to secure their payment. Zenara is currently not profitable, and there is no guarantee that it will be in the future. Should Zenara not meet its goals or continue to generate losses, it could negatively impact the Company’s consolidated results, cash flows and stock price. The Company has a significant amount of debt. The Company has a $200,000 revolving credit facility of which $115,900 was outstanding at December 31, 2010. This facility expires in April 2012. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on the credit facility, it will be in default. This current debt arrangement requires the Company to comply with specified financial ratios. The Company’s ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond its control. Even if the Company is able to meet its debt service obligations, the amount of debt it has could adversely affect the Company by limiting its ability to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, or other purposes. It also places the Company at a disadvantage relative to its competitors who have lower levels of debt, while making it more vulnerable to a downturn in its business or the economy in general. It also requires the Company to use a substantial portion of its cash to pay principal and interest on its debt, instead of investing those funds in the business. The Company’s liquidity, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if the financial institutions which hold its funds fail. The Company has significant funds held in bank deposits, money market funds and other accounts at certain financial institutions. A significant portion of the funds held in these accounts exceed insurable limits. If any of the financial institutions where the Company has deposited funds were to fail, the Company may lose some or all of its deposited funds that exceed the insurance coverage limit. Such a loss would have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ____________ (dollars in thousands, except share data) 13 Index A payment failure by any large customer or multiple smaller customers could adversely affect the Company’s cash flows and profitability. Historically, the Company has not experienced any significant bad debt or collection problems, but such problems may arise in the future. The failure of any of the Company’s customers to make timely payments could require the Company to write off accounts receivable or increase provisions made against its accounts receivable, either of which could adversely affect the Company’s cash flows and profitability. The Company has significant inventories on hand. The Company maintains significant inventories and has an allowance for slow-moving and obsolete inventory. Any significant unanticipated changes in future product demand or market conditions, including the current uncertainty in the global market, could also have an impact on the value of inventory and adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. International unrest or foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect the Company’s results. The Company’s international revenues, which include revenues from its non-U.S. subsidiaries and export sales from the U.S., represent the majority of its product revenues. There are a number of risks arising from the Company’s international business, including: · the possibility that unfriendly nations or groups could boycott its products; · general economic decline and/or political unrest in the markets in which it operates; · potential increased costs associated with overlapping tax structures; · more limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · the difficulties of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; · longer accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries; and · import and export licensing requirements. In addition, a significant portion of the Company’s business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which is its reporting currency. The Company recognizes foreign currency gains or losses arising from its operations in the period incurred. As a result, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which the Company does business have caused, and will continue to cause, foreign currency transaction gains and losses. The Company cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon its future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures, and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. The Company engages in limited foreign exchange hedging transactions to mitigate the impact of this volatility on its operations, but its strategies are short-term in nature and may not adequately protect its operating results from the full effects of exchange rate fluctuations. Cambrex’s global operations expose the Company to additional risks that could have an adverse effect on its business, financial position and results of operations. Cambrex’s operations extend to numerous countries outside of the U.S. including a 51% interest in Zenara located in Hyderabad, India. There are significant risks associated with the establishment of foreign operations, including, but not limited to: geopolitical risks, terrorism, foreign currency exchange rates and the impact of shifts in the U.S. and local economies on those rates, compliance with local laws and regulations, the protection of the Company’s intellectual property and that of its customers, the ability to integrate its corporate culture with local customs and cultures, and the ability to effectively and efficiently supply its international facilities with the required equipment and materials. If the Company is unable to effectively manage these risks, these locations may not produce the revenues, earnings, or strategic benefits that it anticipates which could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business. ____________ (dollars in thousands, except share data) 14 Index Finally, the Company operates in certain jurisdictions that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in some circumstances, anti-bribery laws may conflict with some local customs and practices. As a result of the Company’s policy to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws, the Company may be at a competitive disadvantage to competitors that are not subject to, or do not comply with, such laws. Cambrex’s operating results may unexpectedly fluctuate in future periods. The Company’s revenue and operating results have fluctuated, and could continue to fluctuate, on a quarterly basis. The operating results for a particular quarter may be lower than expected as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the timing of contracts; the delay or cancellation of a contract; the mix of services provided; seasonal slowdowns in different parts of the world; the timing of start-up expenses for new services and facilities; changes in government regulations; and unfavorable exchange rates with the U.S. dollar. Because a high percentage of the Company’s costs are relatively fixed in the short term, such as the cost of maintaining facilities and compensating employees, any one of these factors could have a significant impact on the Company’s quarterly results. In some quarters, the Company’s revenue and operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to any of the factors described above. If such event occurred, sales of common stock by existing holders would cause the trading price of the Company’s common stock to decline, even if the decline in revenue did not have any long-term adverse implications for the Company’s business. The possibility the Company will be unable to protect its technologies could affect its ability to compete. The Company’s success depends to a significant degree upon its ability to develop proprietary products and technologies. However, the Company cannot be assured that patents will be granted on any of its patent applications. The Company also cannot be assured that the scope of any of its issued patents will be sufficiently broad to offer meaningful protection. The Company has patents issued in selected countries, therefore, third parties can make, use, and sell products covered by its patents in any country in which the Company does not have patent protection. In addition, issued patents or patents the Company licenses could be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented so that its patent rights would not create an effective competitive barrier. The Company provides its customers the right to use its products under label licenses that are for research purposes only. These licenses could be contested, and the Company cannot be assured that it would either be aware of an unauthorized use or be able to enforce the restrictions in a cost-effective manner. If a third party claimed an intellectual property right to technology the Company uses, it may need to discontinue an important product or product line, alter its products and processes, defend its right to use such technology in court or pay license fees. Although the Company may, under these circumstances, attempt to obtain a license to such intellectual property, it may not be able to do so on favorable terms, or at all. Additionally, if Cambrex’s products are found to infringe on a third party’s intellectual property, the Company may be required to pay damages for past infringement, and lose the ability to sell certain products or receive licensing revenues. The Company also relies on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation that it seeks to protect, in part by confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants. It is possible that these agreements will be breached and the Company will not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements. Furthermore, Cambrex’s trade secrets and proprietary technology may otherwise become known or be independently developed by its competitors or the Company may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to such products. ____________ (dollars in thousands, except share data) 15 Index The Company could be subject to goodwill impairment charges in the future. Under U.S. GAAP, the Company is required to evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually. If the Company determines that the fair value is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss will be recorded in the Company’s statement of operations. The determination of fair value is a highly subjective exercise and can produce significantly different results based on the assumptions used and methodologies employed. If the Company’s projected long-term sales growth rate, profit margins or terminal rate are considerably lower and/or the assumed weighted average cost of capital is considerably higher, future testing may indicate impairment and the Company would have to record a non-cash goodwill impairment loss in its statement of operations. Assessments by various tax authorities may be materially different than the Company has provided for and it may experience significant volatility in its annual and quarterly effective tax rate. As a matter of course, the Company is regularly audited by federal, state, and foreign tax authorities. From time to time, these audits result in proposed assessments. In recent years, the Company utilized significant tax attributes in the form of foreign tax credits and U.S. net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards to reduce or eliminate potential tax expense related to the repatriation of funds into the U.S. resulting from the sale of the businesses that comprised the Bioproducts and Biopharma segments in 2007. While the Company believes that it has adequately provided for any taxes related to these items, and taxes related to all other aspects of its business, any such assessments or future settlements may be materially different than it has provided. The Company may pursue transactions that could cause it to experience significant charges to earnings that may adversely affect its stock price and financial condition. The Company regularly reviews potential transactions related to technologies, products, product rights and businesses complementary to its business. These transactions could include mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances or licensing agreements. In the future, the Company may choose to enter into these transactions at any time. As a result of acquiring businesses or entering into other significant transactions, the Company may experience significant charges to earnings for merger and related expenses. If the Company is not able to successfully integrate the acquired business to create the advantages the acquisition was intended to create, it may affect the Company’s results of operations and the market price of its common stock. Furthermore, if the Company is unable to improve the operating margins of acquired businesses or operate them profitably, it may be unable to achieve its growth strategy. Risks Related to Cambrex’s Industry Any significant change in government regulation of the drug development process could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The manufacturing of pharmaceutical products is subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities, including the FDA and comparable regulatory authorities in other countries. The Company’s business, as well as its customers’ business depends in part on strict government regulation of the drug development process. Legislation may be introduced and enacted from time to time to modify regulations administered by the FDA and governing the drug approval process. Any significant reduction in the scope of regulatory requirements or the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Failure to comply with cGMP and other government regulations or delays in obtaining regulatory approval could have a material adverse effect on the Company. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used for manufacturing products for clinical use or for commercial sale in the U.S. must be operated in conformity with cGMP regulations as required by the FDA and other comparable regulatory authorities in other countries, and for certain products, the Drug Enforcement Agency. The Company’s facilities are subject to scheduled periodic regulatory and customer inspections to ensure compliance with cGMP and other requirements applicable to such products. A finding that the Company had materially violated these requirements could result in regulatory sanctions including, but not limited to, the regulatory agencies, including the FDA, withholding approval of new drug applications or supplements and the denial of entry into the U.S., or other countries, of products manufactured at non-compliant foreign facilities, the loss of a customer contract, the disqualification of data for client submissions to regulatory authorities and a mandated closing of the Company’s facilities. Any such violations would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Cambrex’s customers are typically subject to the same, or similar, regulations and any such violations or other actions by regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, plant shutdowns or product recalls that eliminate or reduce the Company’s sale of its products or services could negatively impact the Company’s business. In addition, the submission of new products to regulatory authorities for approval by the Company or its customers does not guarantee the approval to market the product will be granted. Each authority may impose its own requirements and/or delay or refuse to grant approval to the Company or customer even when the product has already been approved in another country. 16 Index The outsourcing trend in the preclinical and clinical stages of drug research and development may decrease, which could slow the Company’s growth. The success of the Company’s business depends to a certain extent on the number of contracts and the size of the contracts that it may obtain from pharmaceutical companies. Over the past several years, the Company has benefited from increased levels of outsourcing by pharmaceutical companies of their drug R&D activities. A slowing of the outsourcing trend could result in a diminished growth rate in the Company’s sales and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. ____________ (dollars in thousands, except share data) 17 Index Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 