Risk Factors Our quarterly revenue and operating results may vary significantly in future periods and our stock price may decline. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Our revenues are unpredictable and may fluctuate due to changes in demand for our products, the timing of the execution of customer contracts, the timing of milestone payments, or the failure to achieve and receive the same, and the initiation or termination of corporate collaboration agreements. A significant portion of our costs also can vary substantially between quarterly or annual reporting periods. For example, the total amount of research and development costs in a period often depends on the amount of costs we incur in connection with manufacturing developmental lots and clinical trial lots. Moreover, a variety of factors may affect our ability to make accurate forecasts regarding our operating results. For example, our new blood screening products, oncology and industrial products, as well as some of our clinical diagnostic products, have a relatively limited sales history, which limits our ability to project future sales, prices and the sales cycles accurately. In addition, we base our internal projections of blood screening product sales and international sales of various diagnostic products on projections prepared by our distributors of these products and therefore we are dependent upon the accuracy of those projections. We expect continuing fluctuations in our manufacture and shipment of blood screening products to Novartis, which vary each period based on Novartis’ inventory levels and supply chain needs. Because of all of these factors, our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet or exceed financial guidance we may provide from time to time and the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, the trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about our business and that of our competitors. Furthermore, failure to achieve our operational goals may inhibit our targeted growth plans and the successful implementation of our strategic objectives. Our financial performance may be adversely affected by current global economic conditions. Our business depends on the overall demand for our products and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. Our projected revenues and operating results are based on assumptions concerning certain levels of customer demand. We have not experienced recent declines in overall blood screening or clinical diagnostics customer purchases as a result of current economic conditions, however, a continued weakening of the global and domestic economy, or a reduction in customer spending or credit availability, could result in downward pricing pressures, delayed or decreased purchases of our products and longer sales cycles. Furthermore, during challenging economic times our customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts. If economic and market conditions in the United States or other key 37 Table of Contents markets persist, spread, or deteriorate further, we may experience adverse effects on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are dependent on Novartis and other third parties for the distribution of some of our products. If any of our distributors terminates its relationship with us or fails to adequately perform, our product sales will suffer. We rely on Novartis to distribute blood screening products we manufacture. Commercial product sales to Novartis accounted for 44% of our total revenues for 2008 and 43% of total revenues for 2007. As described above, Amendment No. 11 extends to June 30, 2025 the term of our blood screening collaboration with Novartis under the 1998 Agreement. The 1998 Agreement was previously scheduled to expire by its terms in 2013. The collaboration agreement can be terminated by either party prior to the expiration of its term if the other party materially breaches the collaboration agreement and does not cure the breach following 90 days’ notice, or if the other party becomes insolvent or declares bankruptcy. In July 2008, we were notified that certain blood screening assays manufactured by us for Novartis and sold outside of the United States might have been improperly stored at a Novartis third-party warehouse in Singapore. Following our established quality system, an investigation for product performance was initiated. in August 2008, we determined that, based on the results of our investigation to date, we could not fully assess the potential impact of these improper storage conditions on the ultimate performance of the product without conducting additional stability testing. As a result, we and Novartis agreed that products previously delivered to customers from this warehousing facility should be replaced and the appropriate field actions were initiated with customers and the regulatory authorities in the affected countries. While we do not expect to incur charges in connection with this event, we devoted considerable time and attention to rectifying the issues resulting from the improper storage conditions and events such as this may harm our commercial reputation. Our agreement with Siemens, as assignee of Bayer, for the distribution of certain of our products will terminate in 2010. In November 2002, we initiated an arbitration proceeding against Bayer in connection with our clinical diagnostic collaboration. In August 2006, we entered into a settlement agreement with Bayer regarding this arbitration and the patent litigation between the parties. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, the parties submitted a stipulated final award adopting the arbitrator’s prior interim and supplemental awards, except that Bayer was no longer obligated to reimburse us $2.0 million for legal expenses previously awarded in the arbitrator’s June 5, 2005 Interim Award. The arbitrator determined that the collaboration agreement should be terminated, as we requested, except as to the qualitative HCV assays and as to quantitative Analyte Specific Reagents, or ASRs, for HCV. As Bayer’s assignee, Siemens retains the co-exclusive right to distribute the qualitative HCV tests and the exclusive right to distribute the quantitative HCV ASR. As a result of a termination of the collaboration agreement, we re-acquired the right to develop and market future viral assays that had been previously reserved for Siemens. The arbitrator’s March 3, 2006 supplemental award determined that we are not obligated to pay an initial license fee in connection with the sale of the qualitative HIV-1 and HCV assays and that we will be required to pay running sales royalties, at rates we believe are generally consistent with rates paid by other licensees of the relevant patents. We rely upon bioMérieux for distribution of certain of our products in most of Europe and Australia, Rebio Gen for distribution of certain of our products in Japan, and various independent distributors for distribution of our products in other regions. Distribution rights revert back to us upon termination of the distribution agreements. Our distribution agreement with Rebio Gen terminates on December 31, 2010, although it may terminate earlier under certain circumstances. Our distribution agreement with bioMérieux terminates on May 2, 2009, although it may terminate earlier under certain circumstances. If any of our distribution or marketing agreements is terminated, particularly our collaboration agreement with Novartis, or if we elect to distribute new products directly, we will have to invest in additional sales and marketing resources, including additional field sales personnel, which would significantly increase future selling, general and administrative expenses. We may not be able to enter into new distribution or marketing agreements on satisfactory terms, or at all. If we fail to enter into acceptable distribution or marketing agreements or fail to successfully market our products, our product sales will decrease. 38 Table of Contents If we cannot maintain our current corporate collaborations and enter into new corporate collaborations, our product development could be delayed. In particular, any failure by us to maintain our collaboration with Novartis with respect to blood screening would have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely, to a significant extent, on our corporate collaborators for funding development and for marketing many of our products. In addition, we expect to rely on our corporate collaborators for the commercialization of those products. If any of our corporate collaborators were to breach or terminate its agreement with us or otherwise fail to conduct its collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner, the development or commercialization and subsequent marketing of the products contemplated by the collaboration could be delayed or terminated. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources our corporate collaborators devote to our programs or potential products. In November 2007, for example, 3M informed us that it no longer intended to fund our collaboration to develop rapid molecular assays for the food testing industry. We and 3M subsequently terminated this agreement. In June 2008, 3M discontinued our collaboration to develop assays for healthcare-associated infections. While we are currently seeking other opportunities to commercialize our prototype assays in these fields, there is no guarantee we will be successful in these efforts. The continuation of any of our collaboration agreements depends on their periodic renewal by us and our collaborators. For example, we recently entered into Amendment No. 11 with Novartis which extends to June 30, 2025 the term of our blood screening collaboration with Novartis under the 1998 Agreement. The 1998 Agreement was previously scheduled to expire by its terms in 2013. The collaboration agreement can be terminated by either party prior to the expiration of its term if the other party materially breaches the collaboration agreement and does not cure the breach following 90 days’ notice, or if the other party becomes insolvent or declares bankruptcy. If any of our current collaboration agreements is terminated, or if we are unable to renew those collaborations on acceptable terms, we would be required to devote additional internal resources to product development or marketing or to terminate some development programs or seek alternative corporate collaborations. We may not be able to negotiate additional corporate collaborations on acceptable terms, if at all, and these collaborations may not be successful. In addition, in the event of a dispute under our current or any future collaboration agreements, such as those under our agreements with Novartis and Siemens, a court or arbitrator may not rule in our favor and our rights or obligations under an agreement subject to a dispute may be adversely affected, which may have an adverse impact on our business or operating results. We may acquire other businesses or form collaborations, strategic alliances and joint ventures that could decrease our profitability, result in dilution to stockholders or cause us to incur debt or significant expense, and acquired companies or technologies could be difficult to integrate and could disrupt our business. As part of our business strategy, we intend to pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses and enter into technology licensing arrangements. We also intend to pursue strategic alliances that leverage our core technology and industry experience to expand our product offerings and geographic presence. We have limited experience with respect to acquiring other companies. Any future acquisitions by us could result in large and immediate write-offs or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could harm our operating results. Integration of an acquired company also may require management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our existing business. We may not identify or complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all. For example, in July 2008 we withdrew our counterbid to acquire Innogenetics NV as a result of a higher offer made by Solvay Pharmaceuticals. Prior to withdrawing our bid, our management devoted substantial time and attention to the proposed transaction. Further, we nonetheless incurred related transaction costs, including legal, accounting and other fees. In addition, in January 2009, we announced that we had made an approximately $132.2 million cash offer (based on the exchange rate described in the offer) for the acquisition of Tepnel Life Sciences Plc, a company registered in England and Wales, or Tepnel, pursuant to a court-sanctioned scheme of arrangement under United Kingdom law. If successful, we believe the acquisition will provide us access to growth opportunities in transplant diagnostics, genetic testing and pharmaceutical services, as well as accelerate our ongoing strategic efforts to strengthen our marketing and sales, distribution and manufacturing capabilities in the European molecular diagnostics market. These expectations are based upon numerous assumptions that are subject to risks and 39 Table of Contents uncertainties that could deviate materially from our estimates, and could adversely affect our operating results. Some of these risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our anticipated financial performance as a result of the acquisition of Tepnel and estimated cost savings and other synergies as a result of the acquisition of Tepnel. Also, our offer to acquire Tepnel is subject to numerous conditions, including the scheme becoming effective no later than four months form the posting of the scheme document to Tepnel shareholders or such later date as we and Tepnel may agree and the court may approve. It is also possible that Tepnel could receive a competing acquisition offer and its shareholders could decline to support the transaction. Managing the proposed acquisition of Tepnel and any other future acquisitions will entail numerous operational and financial risks, including: • the inability to retain or replace key employees of any acquired businesses or hire enough qualified personnel to staff any new or expanded operations; • the impairment of relationships with key customers of acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership of the acquired businesses; • the exposure to federal, state, local and foreign tax liabilities in connection with any acquisition or the integration of any acquired businesses; • the exposure to unknown liabilities; • higher than expected acquisition and integration costs that could cause our quarterly and annual operating results to fluctuate; • increased amortization expenses if an acquisition includes significant intangible assets; • combining the operations and personnel of acquired businesses with our own, which could be difficult and costly; • the risk of entering new markets; and • integrating, or completing the development and application of, any acquired technologies and personnel with diverse business and cultural backgrounds, which could disrupt our business and divert our management’s time and attention. To finance any acquisitions, we may choose to issue shares of our common stock as consideration, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. If the price of our equity is low or volatile, we may not be able to use our common stock as consideration to acquire other companies. Alternatively, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, especially in light of current economic conditions. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance existing products and to develop, introduce and commercialize new products. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and new product introductions, which may make our existing products obsolete. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance existing products and to develop and introduce new products. We believe that we will need to continue to provide new products that can detect and quantify a greater number of organisms from a single sample. We also believe that we must develop new assays that can be performed on automated instrument platforms. The development of new instrument platforms, if any, in turn may require the modification of existing assays for use with the new instrument, and additional time-consuming and costly regulatory approvals. For example, our failure to successfully develop and commercialize our development-stage Panther instrument system on a timely basis could have a negative impact on our financial performance. The development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring the accurate anticipation of technological, market and medical practice trends, as well as precise technological execution. In addition, the successful development of new products will depend on the development of new technologies. We may be required to undertake time-consuming and costly development activities and to seek regulatory approval for 40 Table of Contents these new products. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these new products. We have experienced delays in receiving FDA clearance in the past. Regulatory clearance or approval of any new products we may develop may not be granted by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities on a timely basis, or at all, and these and other new products may not be successfully commercialized. Failure to timely achieve regulatory approval for our products and introduce products to market could negatively impact our growth objectives and financial performance. In October 2006 and May 2007, the FDA granted marketing approval for use of the Procleix Ultrio assay on eSAS and TIGRIS, respectively, to screen donated blood, plasma, organs and tissue for HIV-1 and HCV in individual blood donations or in pools of up to 16 blood samples. In August 2008, the FDA approved the Procleix Ultrio assay to also screen donated blood, plasma, organs and tissues for HBV in individual blood donations or in pools of up to 16 blood samples on eSAS and the TIGRIS system. Since August 2008, existing customers have not transitioned from the use of the Procleix HIV-1/HCV blood screening assay to the use of the Procleix Ultrio assay at the levels we anticipated. We believe this is attributable in part to the FDA’s current requirements for testing blood donations, which do not currently mandate testing for HBV. Nevertheless, we believe blood collection centers will continue to focus on improving the safety of donated blood by adopting the most advanced blood screening technologies available. If customers do not transition to the use of the Procleix Ultrio assay at expected levels for any of these or other reasons, our financial performance may be adversely affected. We face intense competition, and our failure to compete effectively could decrease our revenues and harm our profitability and results of operations. The clinical diagnostics industry is highly competitive. Currently, the majority of diagnostic tests used by physicians and other health care providers are performed by large reference, public health and hospital laboratories. We expect that these laboratories will compete vigorously to maintain their dominance in the diagnostic testing market. In order to achieve market acceptance of our products, we will be required to demonstrate that our products provide accurate, cost-effective and time saving alternatives to tests performed by traditional laboratory procedures and products made by our competitors. In the markets for clinical diagnostic products, a number of competitors, including Roche, Abbott, Becton Dickinson, Siemens and bioMérieux, currently compete with us for product sales, primarily on the basis of technology, quality, reputation, accuracy, ease of use, price, reliability, the timing of new product introductions and product line offerings. Our existing competitors or new market entrants may be in better position than we are to respond quickly to new or emerging technologies, may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, may adopt more aggressive pricing policies and may be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. Many of our competitors have, and in the future these and other competitors may have, significantly greater financial, marketing, sales, manufacturing, distribution and technological resources than we do. Moreover, these companies may have substantially greater expertise in conducting clinical trials and research and development, greater ability to obtain necessary intellectual property licenses and greater brand recognition than we do, any of which may adversely impact our customer retention and market share. Competitors may make rapid technological developments that may result in our technologies and products becoming obsolete before we recover the expenses incurred to develop them or before they generate significant revenue or market acceptance. Some of our competitors have developed “real time” or kinetic nucleic acid assays and semi-automated instrument systems for those assays. Additionally, some of our competitors are developing assays that permit the quantitative detection of multiple analytes (or quantitative multiplexing). Although we are evaluating and/or developing such technologies, we believe some of our competitors are further along in the development process than we are with respect to such assays and instrumentation. In the market for blood screening products, the primary competitor to our collaboration with Novartis is Roche, which received FDA approval of its PCR-based NAT tests for blood screening in December 2002. Our collaboration with Novartis also competes with blood banks and laboratories that have internally developed assays based on PCR technology, Ortho Clinical Diagnostics, a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, that markets an HCV antigen assay, and 41 Table of Contents Abbott and Siemens with respect to immunoassay products. In the future, our collaboration blood screening products also may compete with viral inactivation or reduction technologies and blood substitutes. Novartis, with whom we have a collaboration agreement for blood screening products, retains certain rights to grant licenses of the patents related to HCV and HIV to third parties in blood screening using NAT. Prior to its merger with Novartis, Chiron granted HIV and HCV licenses to Roche in the blood screening and clinical diagnostics fields. Chiron also granted HIV and HCV licenses in the clinical diagnostics field to Bayer Healthcare LLC (now Siemens), together with the right to grant certain additional HIV and HCV sublicenses in the field to third parties. We believe Bayer’s rights have now been assigned to Siemens as part of Bayer’s December 2006 sale of its diagnostics business. Chiron also granted an HCV license to Abbott and an HIV license to Organon Teknika (now bioMérieux) in the clinical diagnostics field. If Novartis grants additional licenses in blood screening or Siemens grants additional licenses in clinical diagnostics, further competition will be created for sales of HCV and HIV assays and these licenses could affect the prices that can be charged for our products. We have collaboration agreements to develop NAT products for industrial testing applications. We have limited experience operating in these markets and may not successfully develop commercially viable products. We have collaboration agreements to develop NAT products for detecting microorganisms in selected water applications, and for microbiological and virus monitoring in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical manufacturing industries. We have limited experience applying our technologies and operating in industrial testing markets. The process of successfully developing products for application in these markets is expensive, time-consuming and unpredictable. Research and development programs to create new products require a substantial amount of our scientific, technical, financial and human resources and there is no guarantee that new products will be successfully developed. We will need to design and execute specific product development plans in conjunction with our collaborative partners and make significant investments to ensure that any products we develop perform properly, are cost-effective and adequately address customer needs. Even if we develop products for commercial use in these markets, any products we develop may not be accepted in these markets, may be subject to competition and may be subject to other risks and uncertainties associated with these markets. For example, most pharmaceutical manufacturers rely on culture testing of their manufacturing systems, and may be unwilling to switch to molecular testing like that used in our recently launched MilliPROBE product to detect Pseudomonas aeruginosa. We have no experience with customer and customer support requirements, sales cycles, and other industry-specific requirements or dynamics applicable to these new markets and we and our collaborators may not be able to successfully convert customers to tests using our NAT technologies, which we expect will be more costly than existing methods. We will be reliant on our collaborators in these markets. Our interests may be different from those of our collaborators and conflicts may arise in these collaboration arrangements that have an adverse impact on our ability to develop new products. As a result of these risks and other uncertainties, we may not be able to successfully develop commercially viable products for application in industrial testing or any other new markets. Failure to manufacture our products in accordance with product specifications could result in increased costs, lost revenues, customer dissatisfaction or voluntary product recalls, any of which could harm our profitability and commercial reputation. Properly manufacturing our complex nucleic acid products requires precise technological execution and strict compliance with regulatory requirements. We may experience problems in the manufacturing process for a number of reasons, such as equipment malfunction or failure to follow specific protocols. If problems arise during the production of a particular product lot, that product lot may need to be discarded or destroyed. This could, among other things, result in increased costs, lost revenues and customer dissatisfaction. If problems are not discovered before the product lot is released to the market, we may incur recall and product liability costs. In the past, we have voluntarily recalled certain product lots for failure to meet product specifications. Any failure to manufacture our products in accordance with product specifications could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and commercial reputation. 42 Table of Contents Disruptions in the supply of raw materials and consumable goods or issues associated with the quality thereof from our single source suppliers, including Roche Molecular Biochemicals, which is an affiliate of one of our primary competitors, could result in a significant disruption in sales and profitability. We purchase some key raw materials and consumable goods used in the manufacture of our products from single-source suppliers. We believe certain of our key suppliers may be experiencing difficulties due to current economic conditions. If we cannot obtain sufficient raw materials from our key suppliers, production of our own products may be delayed or disrupted. In addition, we may not be able to obtain supplies from replacement suppliers on a timely or cost-effective basis, or at all. A reduction or stoppage in supply while we seek a replacement supplier would limit our ability to manufacture our products, which could result in a significant reduction in sales and profitability. For example, there is currently a worldwide shortage of acetonitrile, which we use in the production of many of our products. We believe this shortage results from decreased worldwide production as demand falls for acetonitrile’s co-product, acrylonitrile (a building block in the formulation of resins used in cars, electronic housings, and small appliances), largely attributed to the global economic slowdown. As a result, our supply of acetonitrile has been restricted along with many other companies worldwide. We are seeking to implement mitigation measures to address supply shortages, however, there can be no assurance that such measures will be successful. In addition, an impurity or variation from specification in any raw material we receive could significantly delay our ability to manufacture products. Our inventories may not be adequate to meet our production needs during any prolonged interruption of supply. We also have single source suppliers for proposed future products. Failure to maintain existing supply relationships or to obtain suppliers for our future products, if any, on commercially reasonable terms would prevent us from manufacturing our products and limit our growth. Our current supplier of certain key raw materials for our amplified NAT assays, pursuant to a fixed-price contract, is Roche Molecular Biochemicals. We have a supply and purchase agreement for oligonucleotides for HPV with Roche Molecular Systems. Each of these entities is an affiliate of Roche Diagnostics GmbH, one of our primary competitors. We currently are involved in proceedings with Digene regarding our supply and purchase agreement with Roche Molecular Systems. Digene has filed a demand for binding arbitration against Roche that challenges the validity of the supply and purchase agreement. Digene’s demand asserts, among other things, that Roche materially breached a cross-license agreement between Roche and Digene by granting us an improper sublicense and seeks a determination that the supply and purchase agreement is null and void. The arbitration hearing in this matter commenced October 27, 2008 and the presentation of evidence concluded November 10, 2008. In December 2008 and January 2009, the parties filed post-hearing briefs and closing arguments were presented on January 30, 2009. There can be no assurance that these matters will be resolved in our favor. We have only one third-party manufacturer for each of our instrument product lines, which exposes us to increased risks associated with production delays, delivery schedules, manufacturing capability, quality control, quality assurance and costs. We have one third-party manufacturer for each of our instrument product lines. KMC Systems is the only manufacturer of our TIGRIS instrument. MGM Instruments, Inc. is the only manufacturer of our LEADER series of luminometers. We are dependent on these third-party manufacturers, and this dependence exposes us to increased risks associated with production delays, delivery schedules, manufacturing capability, quality control, quality assurance and costs. We have no firm long-term commitments from KMC Systems, MGM Instruments or any of our other manufacturers to supply products to us for any specific period, or in any specific quantity, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. If KMC Systems, MGM Instruments or any of our other third-party manufacturers experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in its manufacturing operations or becomes insolvent, then instrument shipments to our customers could be delayed, which would decrease our revenues and harm our competitive position and reputation. Further, because we place orders with our manufacturers based on forecasts of expected demand for our instruments, if we inaccurately forecast demand, we may be unable to obtain adequate manufacturing capacity or adequate quantities of components to meet our customers’ delivery requirements, or we may accumulate excess inventories. 43 Table of Contents We may in the future need to find new contract manufacturers to increase our volumes or to reduce our costs. We may not be able to find contract manufacturers that meet our needs, and even if we do, qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is expensive and time consuming. For example, we believe qualifying a new manufacturer of our TIGRIS instrument would take approximately 12 months. If we are required or elect to change contract manufacturers, we may lose revenues and our customer relationships may suffer. We and our customers are subject to various governmental regulations, and we may incur significant expenses to comply with, and experience delays in our product commercialization as a result of, these regulations. The clinical diagnostic and blood screening products we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. We generally are prohibited from marketing our clinical diagnostic products in the United States unless we obtain either 510(k) clearance or premarket approval from the FDA. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, clearances or approvals for future products could result in delayed, or no, realization of product revenues from new products or in substantial additional costs which could decrease our profitability. The process of seeking and obtaining regulatory approvals, particularly from the FDA and some foreign governmental authorities, to market our products can be costly and time consuming, and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. In March 2008, we started U.S. clinical trials for our investigational APTIMA HPV assay. We expect that trial enrollment of approximately 7,000 women and trial testing will take approximately two years. However, actual trial enrollment may vary based on the prevalence of cervical disease among women in the trial or other factors. If we experience unexpected complications in conducting the trial, we may incur additional costs or experience delays or difficulties in receiving FDA approval. In addition, we cannot guarantee that the FDA will ultimately approve the use of our APTIMA HPV assay upon completion of the trial. Failure to obtain FDA approval of our APTIMA HPV assay, or delays or difficulties experienced during the clinical trial, could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. We are also required to continue to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements once we have obtained clearance or approval for a product. These requirements include, among other things, the Quality System Regulation, labeling requirements, the FDA’s general prohibition against promoting products for unapproved or “off-label” uses and adverse event reporting regulations. Failure to comply with applicable FDA product regulatory requirements could result in, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, repairs, replacements, refunds, recalls or seizures of products, total or partial suspension of production, the FDA’s refusal to grant future premarket clearances or approvals, withdrawals or suspensions of current product applications and criminal prosecution. Any of these actions, in combination or alone, could prevent us from selling our products and harm our business. We currently offer ASRs for use in the detection of PCA3 mRNA and for use in the detection of the parasite Trichomonas vaginalis. We also have developed an ASR for quantitative HCV testing that Siemens provides to Quest Diagnostics. The FDA restricts the sale of these products to clinical laboratories certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or CLIA, to perform high complexity testing and also restricts the types of products that can be sold as ASRs. In September 2007, the FDA published guidance for ASRs that define the types of products that can be sold as ASRs. Under the terms of this guidance and the “ASR Manufacturer Letter” issued in June 2008 by the Office of In Vitro Diagnostic Device Evaluation and Safety at the FDA, it may be more challenging for us to market some of our ASR products and we may be required to terminate those ASR product sales, conduct clinical studies and make submissions of our ASR products to the FDA for clearance or approval. Outside the United States, our ability to market our products is contingent upon maintaining our certification with the International Organization for Standardization, and in some cases receiving specific marketing authorization from the appropriate foreign regulatory authorities. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, marketing authorization, pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. Our EU foreign 44 Table of Contents marketing authorizations cover all member states. Foreign registration is an ongoing process as we register additional products and/or product modifications. The use of our diagnostic products is also affected by CLIA, and related federal and state regulations that provide for regulation of laboratory testing. CLIA is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories in the United States by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality and inspections. Current or future CLIA requirements or the promulgation of additional regulations affecting laboratory testing may prevent some clinical laboratories from using some or all of our diagnostic products. Certain of the industrial testing products that we intend to develop may be subject to government regulation, and market acceptance may be subject to the receipt of certification from independent agencies. We will be reliant on our industrial collaborators in these markets to obtain any necessary approvals. There can be no assurance that these approvals will be received. As both the FDA and foreign government regulators have become increasingly stringent, we may be subject to more rigorous regulation by governmental authorities in the future. Complying with these rules and regulations could cause us to incur significant additional expenses and delays in launching products, which would harm our operating results. Our products are subject to recalls even after receiving FDA approval or clearance. The FDA and governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products if we fail to comply with relevant regulations pertaining to product manufacturing, quality, labeling, advertising, or promotional activities, or if new information is obtained concerning the safety of a product. Our assay products incorporate complex biochemical reagents and our instruments comprise complex hardware and software. We have in the past voluntarily recalled products, which, in each case, required us to identify a problem and correct it. In December 2008, we recalled certain AccuProbe Group B Streptococcus Test kits and AccuProbe Mycobacterium tuberculosis Culture Identification Test kits, after receiving a customer complaint indicating the customer had received a Group B Strep kit containing a probe reagent tube that appeared upon visual inspection to be empty. We confirmed that a manufacturing error had occurred, corrected the problem, recalled all potentially affected products, provided replacements and notified the FDA and other appropriate authorities. Although none of our past product recalls had a material adverse effect on our business, our products may be subject to a future government-mandated recall or a voluntary recall by us, and any such recall could divert managerial and financial resources, could be more difficult and costly to correct, could result in the suspension of sales of our products and could harm our financial results and our reputation. Our gross profit margin percentage on the sale of blood screening assays will decrease upon the implementation of smaller pool size testing. We currently receive revenues from the sale of blood screening assays primarily for use with pooled donor samples. In pooled testing, multiple donor samples are initially screened by a single test. Since Novartis sells blood screening assays under our collaboration to blood collection centers on a per donation basis, our profit margins are greater when a single test can be used to screen multiple donor samples. We believe certain blood screening markets are trending from pooled testing of large numbers of donor samples to smaller pool sizes. A greater number of tests will be required in markets where smaller pool sizes are required. Under our recently revised collaboration agreement with Novartis, we bear half of the cost of manufacturing blood screening assays. The greater number of tests required for smaller pool sizes will increase our variable manufacturing costs, including costs of raw materials and labor. If the price per donor or total sales volume does not increase in line with the increase in our total variable manufacturing costs, our gross profit margin percentage from sales of blood screening assays will decrease upon adoption of smaller pool sizes. We have already observed this trend with respect to certain sales internationally. We are not able to predict accurately the ultimate extent to which our gross profit margin percentage will be negatively affected as a result of smaller pool sizes, 45 Table of Contents because we do not know the ultimate selling price that Novartis would charge to the end user or the degree to which smaller pool size testing will be adopted across the markets in which our products are sold. Because we depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our total revenues, the loss of any of these customers or any cancellation or delay of a large purchase by any of these customers could significantly reduce our revenues. Historically, a limited number of customers has accounted for a significant portion of our total revenues, and we do not have any long-term commitments with these customers, other than our collaboration agreement with Novartis. Revenues from our blood screening collaboration with Novartis accounted for 48% of our total revenues for 2008 and 45% of our total revenues for 2007. Our blood screening collaboration with Novartis is largely dependent on two large customers in the United States, The American Red Cross and America’s Blood Centers, although we did not receive any revenues directly from those entities. Novartis was our only customer that accounted for greater than 10% of our total revenues for 2008. Various state and city public health agencies accounted for an aggregate of 8% of our total revenues for 2008 and 9% of total revenues for 2007. Although state and city public health agencies are legally independent of each other, we believe they tend to act similarly with respect to their product purchasing decisions. We anticipate that our operating results will continue to depend to a significant extent upon revenues from a small number of customers. The loss of any of our key customers, or a significant reduction in sales volume or pricing to those customers, could significantly reduce our revenues. Intellectual property rights on which we rely to protect the technologies underlying our products may be inadequate to prevent third parties from using our technologies or developing competing products. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patent protection for, or maintain the secrecy of, our proprietary products, processes and other technologies for development of blood screening and clinical diagnostic products and instruments. Although we had more than 470 United States and foreign patents covering our products and technologies as of December 31, 2008, these patents, or any patents that we may own or license in the future, may not afford meaningful protection for our technology and products. The pursuit and assertion of a patent right, particularly in areas like nucleic acid diagnostics and biotechnology, involve complex determinations and, therefore, are characterized by substantial uncertainty. In addition, the laws governing patentability and the scope of patent coverage continue to evolve, particularly in biotechnology. As a result, patents might not issue from certain of our patent applications or from applications licensed to us. Our existing patents will expire by December 8, 2025 and the patents we may obtain in the future also will expire over time. The scope of any of our issued patents may not be broad enough to offer meaningful protection. In addition, others may challenge our current patents or patents we may obtain in the future and, as a result, these patents could be narrowed, invalidated or rendered unenforceable, or we may be forced to stop using the technology covered by these patents or to license technology from third parties. The laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Any patents issued to us or our partners may not provide us with any competitive advantages, and the patents held by other parties may limit our freedom to conduct our business or use our technologies. Our efforts to enforce and maintain our intellectual property rights may not be successful and may result in substantial costs and diversion of management time. Even if our rights are valid, enforceable and broad in scope, third parties may develop competing products based on technology that is not covered by our patents. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on copyright and trademark protection, trade secrets, know-how, continued technological innovation and licensing opportunities. In an effort to maintain the confidentiality and ownership of our trade secrets and proprietary information, we require our employees, consultants, advisors and others to whom we disclose confidential information to execute confidentiality and proprietary information and inventions agreements. However, it is possible that these agreements may be breached, invalidated or rendered unenforceable, and if so, there may not be an adequate corrective remedy available. Furthermore, like many companies in our industry, we may from time to time hire scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities we conduct. In some situations, our confidentiality and proprietary information and inventions agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties 46 Table of Contents with whom our employees, consultants or advisors have prior employment or consulting relationships. Although we require our employees and consultants to maintain the confidentiality of all confidential information of previous employers, we or these individuals may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of their prior affiliations. Finally, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our failure to protect our proprietary information and techniques may inhibit or limit our ability to exclude certain competitors from the market and execute our business strategies. The diagnostic products industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation, and we have been and may continue to be involved in costly intellectual property lawsuits. The diagnostic products industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation, and these lawsuits likely will continue. From time-to-time in the ordinary course of business we receive communications from third parties calling our attention to patents or other intellectual property rights owned by them, with the implicit or explicit suggestion that we may need to acquire a license of such rights. We have faced in the past, and may face in the future, patent infringement lawsuits by companies that control patents for products and services similar to ours or other lawsuits alleging infringement by us of their intellectual property rights. In order to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, we may have to initiate legal proceedings against third parties. Legal proceedings relating to intellectual property typically are expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. The cost of this litigation could adversely affect our results of operations, making us less profitable. Further, if we do not prevail in an infringement lawsuit brought against us, we might have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license to use the patented technology. Recently, we have been involved in a number of patent-related disputes with third parties. In December 2006, Digene Corporation filed a demand for binding arbitration against Roche with the International Centre for Dispute Resolution, or the IDCR, of the American Arbitration Association in New York. Digene’s demand asserts, among other things, that Roche materially breached a cross-license agreement between Roche and Digene by granting us an improper sublicense and seeks a determination that our supply and purchase agreement with Roche is null and void. On July 13, 2007, the ICDR arbitrators granted our petition to join the arbitration. On August 27, 2007, Digene filed an amended arbitration demand and asserted a claim against us for tortious interference with the cross-license agreement. The arbitration hearing commenced October 27, 2008 and the presentation of evidence concluded November 10, 2008. In December 2008 and January 2009 the parties filed post-hearing briefs and closing arguments were presented on January 30, 2009. There can be no assurance that the matter will be resolved in our favor. Pursuant to our June 1998 collaboration agreement with Novartis, we hold certain rights in the blood screening and clinical diagnostics fields under patents originally issued to Novartis covering the detection of HIV. We sell a qualitative HIV test in the clinical diagnostics field and we manufacture tests for HIV for use in the blood screening field, which Novartis sells under Novartis’ brands and name. In February 2005, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office declared two interferences related to U.S. Patent No. 6,531,276 (“Methods For Detecting Human Immunodeficiency Virus Nucleic Acid”), originally issued to Novartis. The first interference was between Novartis and the National Institutes of Health, or NIH, and pertained to U.S. Patent Application No. 06/693,866 (“Cloning and Expression of HTLV-III DNA”). The second interference was between Novartis and Institut Pasteur, and pertained to Institut Pasteur’s U.S. Patent Application No. 07/999,410 (“Cloned DNA Sequences, Hybridizable with Genomic RNA of Lymphadenopathy-Associated Virus (LAV)”). We are informed that the Patent and Trademark Office determined that Institut Pasteur invented the subject matter at issue prior to NIH and Novartis. We are also informed that Novartis and NIH subsequently filed actions in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia challenging the decisions of the Patent and Trademark Office in the patent interference cases. From November 2007 through June 2008, the parties engaged in settlement negotiations and then notified the court that they had signed a memorandum of understanding prior to the negotiation of final, definitive settlement documents. On May 16, 2008, we signed a license agreement with Institut Pasteur concerning Institut Pasteur’s intellectual property for the molecular detection of HIV, covering products manufactured and sold through, and under, our brands or name. On June 27, 2008, the parties to the pending litigation in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia 47 Table of Contents informed the court that they were unable to reach a final, definitive agreement and intended to proceed with litigation. There can be no assurances as to the ultimate outcome of the interference litigation and no assurances as to how the outcome of the interference litigation may affect the patent rights licensed from Institut Pasteur, or Novartis’ right to sell the HIV blood screening tests. We may be subject to future product liability claims that may exceed the scope and amount of our insurance coverage, which would expose us to liability for uninsured claims. While there is a federal preemption defense against product liability claims for medical products that receive premarket approval from the FDA, we believe that no such defense is available for our products that we market under a 510(k) clearance. As such, we are subject to potential product liability claims as a result of the design, development, manufacture and marketing of our clinical diagnostic products. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our product liability insurance rates. In addition, our insurance policies have various exclusions, and thus we may be subject to a product liability claim for which we have no insurance coverage, in which case, we may have to pay the entire amount of any award. In addition, insurance varies in cost and can be difficult to obtain, and we may not be able to obtain insurance in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage may require us to pay substantial amounts, which could harm our business and results of operations. We are exposed to risks associated with acquisitions and other long-lived and intangible assets that may become impaired and result in an impairment charge. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $230.6 million of long-lived assets, including $13.4 million of capitalized software, net of accumulated amortization, relating to our TIGRIS instrument, goodwill of $18.6 million, a $5.4 million investment in Qualigen, Inc., and $51.2 million of capitalized license and manufacturing access fees, patents, purchased intangibles and other long term assets. Additionally, we had $74.3 million of land and buildings, $16.5 million of building improvements, and $51.2 million of equipment and furniture and fixtures. The substantial majority of our long-lived assets are located in the United States. The carrying amounts of long-lived and intangible assets are affected whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any asset may not be recoverable. These events or changes might include a significant decline in market share, a significant decline in profits, rapid changes in technology, significant litigation, an inability to successfully deliver an instrument to the marketplace and attain customer acceptance or other matters. Adverse events or changes in circumstances may affect the estimated undiscounted future operating cash flows expected to be derived from long-lived and intangible assets. If at any time we determine that an impairment has occurred, we will be required to reflect the impaired value as a charge, resulting in a reduction in earnings in the quarter such impairment is identified and a corresponding reduction in our net asset value. A material reduction in earnings resulting from such a charge could cause us to fail to be profitable in the period in which the charge is taken or otherwise fail to meet the expectations of investors and securities analysts, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. In June 2008, we recorded an impairment charge for the net capitalized balance of $3.5 million under our license agreement with Corixa. In the second quarter of 2008, a series of events indicated that future alternative uses of the capitalized intangible asset were unlikely and that recoverability of the asset through future cash flows was not considered likely enough to support continued capitalization. These second quarter 2008 indicators of impairment included decisions on our planned commercial approach for oncology diagnostic products, the completion of a detailed review of the intellectual property suite acquired from Corixa, including our assessment of the proven clinical utility for a majority of the related markers, and the potential for near term sublicense income that could be generated from the intellectual property acquired. In the quarter ended September 30, 2008, we recorded a $1.6 million other-than-temporary loss relating to our investment in Qualigen. In making this determination, we considered a number of factors, including, among others, the share price from the company’s latest financing round, the performance of the company in relation to its own operating targets and business plan, the company’s revenue and cost trends, the company’s liquidity and cash position, including its cash burn rate, market acceptance of the company’s products and services, new products 48 Table of Contents and/or services that the company may have forthcoming, any significant news specific to the company, the company’s competitors and industry, the outlook of the overall industry in which the company operates and a third party valuation report. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices, or existing taxation rules or practices, may cause adverse unexpected revenue or expense fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices, or a change in existing taxation rules or practices, can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Our effective tax rate can also be impacted by changes in estimates of prior years’ items, past and future levels of research and development spending, the outcome of audits by federal, state and foreign jurisdictions and changes in overall levels of income before tax. We expect to continue to incur significant research and development expenses, which may make it difficult for us to maintain profitability. In recent years, we have incurred significant costs in connection with the development of blood screening and clinical diagnostic products, as well as our TIGRIS and Panther instrument systems. We expect our expense levels to remain high in connection with our research and development as we seek to continue to expand our product offerings and continue to develop products and technologies in collaboration with our partners. As a result, we will need to continue to generate significant revenues to maintain profitability. Although we expect our research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue to decrease in future periods, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to maintain profitability in the future. Our failure to maintain profitability in the future could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our short term investments are subject to market and investment risks which may result in a loss of value. We engage one or more third parties to manage some of our cash consistent with an investment policy that restricts investments to securities of high credit quality, with requirements placed on maturities and concentration by security type and issue. These investments are intended to preserve principal while providing liquidity adequate to meet our projected cash requirements. Risks of principal loss are intended to be minimized through diversified short and medium term investments of high quality, but these investments are not, in every case, guaranteed or fully insured. In light of recent changes in the credit market, some high quality short term investment securities, similar to the types of securities that we invest in, have suffered illiquidity, events of default or deterioration in credit quality. If our short term investment portfolio becomes affected by any of the foregoing or other adverse events, we may incur losses relating to these investments. We may not have financing for future capital requirements, which may prevent us from addressing gaps in our product offerings or improving our technology. Although historically our cash flow from operations has been sufficient to satisfy working capital, capital expenditure and research and development requirements, we may in the future need to incur debt or issue equity in order to fund these requirements, as well as to make acquisitions and other investments. If we cannot obtain debt or equity financing on acceptable terms or are limited with respect to incurring debt or issuing equity, including as a result of current economic conditions, we may be unable to address gaps in our product offerings or improve our technology, particularly through acquisitions or investments. If we raise funds through the issuance of debt or equity, any debt securities or preferred stock issued will have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock in the event of a liquidation and may contain other provisions that adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock. The terms of any 49 Table of Contents debt securities may impose restrictions on our operations. If we raise funds through the issuance of equity or debt convertible into equity, this issuance would result in dilution to our stockholders. If we or our contract manufacturers are unable to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities, on a timely basis, at acceptable costs and in compliance with regulatory requirements, our ability to sell our products will be harmed. Our products must be manufactured in sufficient quantities and on a timely basis, while maintaining product quality and acceptable manufacturing costs and complying with regulatory requirements. In determining the required quantities of our products and the manufacturing schedule, we must make significant judgments and estimates based on historical experience, inventory levels, current market trends and other related factors. Because of the inherent nature of estimates, there could be significant differences between our estimates and the actual amounts of products we and our distributors require, which could harm our business and results of operations. Significant additional work will be required for scaling-up manufacturing of each new product prior to commercialization, and we may not successfully complete this work. Manufacturing and quality control problems have arisen and may arise in the future as we attempt to scale-up our manufacturing of a new product, and we may not achieve scale-up in a timely manner or at a commercially reasonable cost, or at all. In addition, although we expect some of our newer products and products under development to share production attributes with our existing products, production of these newer products may require the development of new manufacturing technologies and expertise. We may be unable to develop the required technologies or expertise. The amplified NAT tests that we produce are significantly more expensive to manufacture than our non-amplified products. As we continue to develop new amplified NAT tests in response to market demands for greater sensitivity, our product costs will increase significantly and our margins may decline. We sell our products in a number of cost-sensitive market segments, and we may not be able to manufacture these more complex amplified tests at costs that would allow us to maintain our historical gross margin percentages. In addition, new products that detect or quantify more than one target organism will contain significantly more complex reagents, which will increase the cost of our manufacturing processes and quality control testing. We or other parties we engage to help us may not be able to manufacture these products at a cost or in quantities that would make these products commercially viable. If we are unable to develop or contract for manufacturing capabilities on acceptable terms for our products under development, we will not be able to conduct pre-clinical, clinical and validation testing on these product candidates, which will prevent or delay regulatory clearance or approval of these product candidates. Blood screening and clinical diagnostic products are regulated by the FDA as well as other foreign medical regulatory bodies. In some cases, such as in the United States and the European Union, certain products may also require individual lot release testing. Maintaining compliance with multiple regulators, and multiple centers within the FDA, adds complexity and cost to our overall manufacturing processes. In addition, our manufacturing facilities and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to periodic regulatory inspections by the FDA and other federal and state regulatory agencies, and these facilities are subject to Quality System Regulations requirements of the FDA. We or our contractors may fail to satisfy these regulatory requirements in the future, and any failure to do so may prevent us from selling our products. Our sales to international markets are subject to additional risks. Sales of our products outside the United States accounted for 23% of our total revenues for 2008 and 20% of our total revenues for 2007. Sales by Novartis of collaboration blood screening products outside of the United States accounted for 78% of our international revenues in 2008 and 77% in 2007. Novartis has responsibility for the international distribution of collaboration blood screening products. We encounter risks inherent in international operations. We expect a significant portion of our sales growth, especially with respect to blood screening products, to come from expansion in international markets. If the value of 50 Table of Contents the United States dollar increases relative to foreign currencies, our products could become less competitive in international markets. Our international sales also may be limited or disrupted by: • the imposition of government controls; • export license requirements; • economic and political instability; • price controls; • trade restrictions and tariffs; • differing local product preferences and product requirements; and • changes in foreign medical reimbursement and coverage policies and programs. In addition, we anticipate that requirements for smaller pool sizes of blood samples will result in lower gross margin percentages, as additional tests are required to deliver the sample results. We have already observed this trend with respect to certain sales in Europe. In general, international pool sizes are smaller than domestic pool sizes and, therefore, growth in blood screening revenues attributed to international expansion has led and will lead to lower gross margin percentages. If third-party payors do not reimburse our customers for the use of our clinical diagnostic products or if they reduce reimbursement levels, our ability to sell our products will be harmed. We sell our clinical diagnostic products primarily to large reference laboratories, public health institutions and hospitals, substantially all of which receive reimbursement for the health care services they provide to their patients from third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. Most of these third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a medical product was not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. Third-party payors may also refuse to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. Third-party payors’ reimbursement policies may affect sales of our products that screen for more than one pathogen at the same time, such as our APTIMA Combo 2 product for screening for the causative agents of chlamydial infections and gonorrhea in the same sample. Third-party payors may choose to reimburse our customers on a per test basis, rather than on the basis of the number of results given by the test. This may result in reference laboratories, public health institutions and hospitals electing to use separate tests to screen for each disease so that they can receive reimbursement for each test they conduct. In that event, these entities likely would purchase separate tests for each disease, rather than products that test for more than one microorganism. In addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. Levels of reimbursement may decrease in the future, and future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may adversely affect the demand for and price levels of our products. If our customers are not reimbursed for our products, they may reduce or discontinue purchases of our products, which would cause our revenues to decline. We are dependent on technologies we license, and if we fail to maintain our licenses or license new technologies and rights to particular nucleic acid sequences for targeted diseases in the future, we may be limited in our ability to develop new products. We are dependent on licenses from third parties for some of our key technologies. For example, our patented Transcription-Mediated Amplification technology is based on technology we have licensed from Stanford University. We enter into new licensing arrangements in the ordinary course of business to expand our product portfolio and access new technologies to enhance our products and develop new products. Many of these licenses provide us with exclusive rights to the subject technology or disease marker. If our license with respect to any of these technologies or markers is terminated for any reason, we may not be able to sell products that incorporate the technology. In addition, we may lose competitive advantages if we fail to maintain exclusivity under an exclusive 51 Table of Contents license. DiagnoCure, from whom we have an exclusive license to the PCA3 gene marker for prostate cancer, has asserted that we may have lost market exclusivity because of a failure to meet a milestone under our license and collaboration agreement. We disagree with DiagnoCure’s assertion and discussions are ongoing with DiagnoCure on the issue, but we can give no assurance that this matter will be resolved in our favor. Our ability to develop additional diagnostic tests for diseases may depend on the ability of third parties to discover particular sequences or markers and correlate them with disease, as well as the rate at which such discoveries are made. Our ability to design products that target these diseases may depend on our ability to obtain the necessary rights from the third parties that make any of these discoveries. In addition, there are a finite number of diseases and conditions for which our NAT assays may be economically viable. If we are unable to access new technologies or the rights to particular sequences or markers necessary for additional diagnostic products on commercially reasonable terms, we may be limited in our ability to develop new diagnostic products. Our products and manufacturing processes require access to technologies and materials that may be subject to patents or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may discover that we need to obtain additional intellectual property rights in order to commercialize our products. We may be unable to obtain such rights on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. If we fail to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to design, develop, market or sell our products or successfully manage our business. Competition for top management personnel is intense and we may not be able to recruit and retain the personnel we need. The loss of any one of our management personnel or our inability to identify, attract, retain and integrate additional qualified management personnel could make it difficult for us to manage our business successfully, attract new customers, retain existing customers and pursue our strategic objectives. Although we have employment agreements with our executive officers, we may be unable to retain our existing management. We do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our executive officers. Competition for skilled sales, marketing, research, product development, engineering, and technical personnel is intense and we may not be able to recruit and retain the personnel we need. The loss of the services of key personnel, or our inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills, could restrict our ability to develop new products or enhance existing products in a timely manner, sell products to our customers or manage our business effectively. If a natural or man-made disaster strikes our manufacturing facilities, we will be unable to manufacture our products for a substantial amount of time and our sales will decline. We manufacture substantially all of our products in our two manufacturing facilities located in San Diego, California. These facilities and the manufacturing equipment we use would be costly to replace and could require substantial lead time to repair or replace. Our facilities may be harmed by natural or man-made disasters, including, without limitation, earthquakes and fires, and in the event they are affected by a disaster, we would be forced to rely on third-party manufacturers. The wildfires in San Diego in October 2007 required that we temporarily shut down our facility for the manufacture of blood screening products. In the event of a disaster, we may lose customers and we may be unable to regain those customers thereafter. Although we possess insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we use biological and hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury or violates laws, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities and our manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of infectious diseases, potentially harmful biological materials, as well as hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury, and we could be held liable for damages that result from any contamination or injury. In addition, we are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and 52 Table of Contents specified waste products. The damages resulting from any accidental contamination and the cost of compliance with environmental laws and regulations could be significant. The anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, and provisions of Delaware law, could delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may favor. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control that our stockholders may consider favorable or may impede the ability of the holders of our common stock to change our management. The provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, among other things: • divide our board of directors into three classes, with members of each class to be elected for staggered three-year terms; • limit the right of stockholders to remove directors; • regulate how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings of stockholders; and • authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series, without stockholder approval. In addition, because we have not chosen to be exempt from Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, this provision could also delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may favor. Section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15 percent of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or its affiliate crosses the 15 percent stock ownership threshold. If we do not effectively manage our growth, it could affect our ability to pursue opportunities and expand our business. Growth in our business has placed and may continue to place a significant strain on our personnel, facilities, management systems and resources. We will need to continue to improve our operational and financial systems and managerial controls and procedures and train and manage our workforce. We will have to maintain close coordination among our various departments. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, it could adversely affect our ability to pursue business opportunities and expand our business. Information technology systems implementation issues could disrupt our internal operations and adversely affect our financial results. Portions of our information technology infrastructure may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with ongoing systems implementation work. In particular, we implemented a new enterprise resource planning software system to replace our various legacy systems. To more fully realize the potential of this system, we are continually reassessing and upgrading processes and this may be more expensive, time consuming and resource intensive than planned. Any disruptions that may occur in the operation of this system or any future systems could increase our expenses and adversely affect our ability to report in an accurate and timely manner the results of our consolidated operations, our financial position and cash flow and to otherwise operate our business, which could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation. Our forecasts and other forward looking statements are based upon various assumptions that are subject to significant uncertainties that may result in our failure to achieve our forecasted results. From time to time in press releases, conference calls and otherwise, we may publish or make forecasts or other forward looking statements regarding our future results, including estimated earnings per share and other operating and financial metrics. Our forecasts are based upon various assumptions that are subject to significant uncertainties and any number of them may prove incorrect. For example, our revenue forecasts are based in large part on data and 53 Table of Contents estimates we receive from our collaboration partners and distributors. Our achievement of any forecasts depends upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. Consequently, our performance may not be consistent with management forecasts. Variations from forecasts and other forward looking statements may be material and could adversely affect our stock price and reputation. Compliance with changing corporate governance and public disclosure regulations may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq Global Select Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. To maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we have invested, and intend to invest, in all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards. These investments have resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities and may continue to do so in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 