ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. General. Both of our business segments continue to be adversely impacted by recessionary economic conditions in the U.S. The unprecedented recessionary economic conditions in the United States have reduced demand for our lime and limestone products and our natural gas. Our two largest lime customer industries, the construction and steel industries, have reduced their purchase volumes due to the impact of the recession on their businesses. The reduced demand for natural gas has also resulted in significantly decreased natural gas prices. In order for us to maintain or increase our profitability, we must maintain or increase our revenues and improve cash flows and continue to control our operational and selling, general and administrative expenses. If we are unable to maintain our revenues and control our costs in these difficult economic times, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. The current financial crisis may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations in various ways. The current financial crisis and related uncertainties in the global financial markets may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations in various ways, and we may face increased challenges if the current economic conditions do not improve. Recent months have witnessed severe difficulties in the credit markets and increased volatility in the equity markets, leading to a global recession and unprecedented calls for governmental intervention. If the current economic conditions do not improve, it is possible that our customers may face financial difficulties that could lead them to default on their obligations to us or seek bankruptcy protection. As of December 31, 2008, our total consolidated bank debt was $51.4 million. Our bank indebtedness represented approximately 36% of our total capitalization at December 31, 2008. As a result of our bank indebtedness, a large portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness. Our ability to service our debt and to comply with the financial and restrictive covenants contained in our credit facilities is subject to financial, economic, competitive and other factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. In particular, our ability to service our debt will depend upon our ability to maintain sufficient levels of revenues and cash flows from operations. Although we believe that our cash on hand, funds generated from operations and remaining amounts available under our $30 million revolving credit facility will be sufficient to meet our operating needs, ongoing capital needs and debt service for 2009, if we did have to access the financial markets, as a result of the current financial crisis we may not have the ability to raise the necessary capital. Lime and Limestone Operations. In the normal course of our Lime and Limestone Operations, we face various business and financial risks that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and competitive position. Not all risks are foreseeable or within our ability to control. These risks arise from factors including, but not limited to, fluctuating demand for lime and limestone products, including as a result of downturns in the economy and steel, construction and housing industries, changes in legislation and regulations, including those issued by the Mine Safety and Health Administration, our ability to produce and store quantities of lime and limestone products sufficient in amount and quality to meet customer demands, the success of our modernization and expansion strategies, including our ability to sell our increased lime capacity at acceptable prices, our ability to execute our strategies and complete projects on time and within budget, 10 Table of Contents our ability to integrate, refurbish and/or improve acquired facilities, our access to capital, increasing costs, especially fuel, electricity and transportation costs, inclement weather and the effects of seasonal trends. We receive a significant portion of our coal and coke by rail, so the availability of sufficient solid fuels to run our plants could be diminished significantly in the event of major rail disruptions. In addition, our freight costs to deliver our lime and limestone products are high relative to the value of our products and have increased significantly in recent years. If we are unable to continue to pass along our increasing fuel, electricity, transportation and freight costs to our customers, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. We incur environmental compliance costs, including capital, maintenance and operating costs, with respect to pollution control facilities, the cost of ongoing monitoring programs, the cost of reclamation and remediation efforts and other similar costs and liabilities relating to our compliance with Environmental Laws, and we expect these costs and liabilities to continue to increase, including possible new costs, taxes and limitations on operations. The rate of change of Environmental Laws has been rapid over the last decade, and compliance can require significant expenditures. We believe that our expenditure requirements for future environmental compliance, including complying with the new NOx emissions limitations for our Texas Lime operations located in the DFW nonattainment area for ozone, will continue to increase as operational and reporting standards increase. Discovery of currently unknown conditions and unforeseen liabilities could require additional expenditures. The potential regulation of greenhouse gas emissions remains an issue for the Company and other similar manufacturing companies. Although no restrictions have yet been imposed under U.S. federal laws, new legislation mandating specific near-term and long-range reductions in greenhouse gas emissions is almost certain to be adopted as part of the U.S. climate change policy. The consequences of greenhouse gas emission reduction measures are potentially significant, as the production of carbon dioxide, which is a greenhouse gas, is inherent in the manufacture of lime through the calcination of limestone and combustion of fossil fuels. There is no assurance that a change in the law or regulations will not be adopted, such as the imposition of a carbon tax, a cap and trade program requiring the Company to purchase carbon credits, or measures that would require reductions in emissions, raw materials, fuel use or production rates, that would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and competitive position. We intend to comply with all Environmental Laws and believe that our accrual for environmental costs and liabilities at December 31, 2008 is reasonable. Because many of the requirements are subjective and therefore not quantifiable or presently determinable, or may be affected by additional legislation and rulemaking, it is not possible to accurately predict the aggregate future costs and liabilities of environmental compliance and their effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and competitive position. In order to maintain our competitive position, we may need to continue to expand our operations and production capacity, obtain financing for any such expansion at reasonable interest rates and acceptable terms and sell the resulting increased production at acceptable prices. We may undertake various capital projects and acquisitions. These would most likely require that we incur additional debt, which may not be available to us at reasonable interest rates or on acceptable terms. Given current and projected demand for lime and limestone products, we cannot guarantee that any such project or acquisition would be successful, that we would be able to sell any resulting increased production at acceptable prices or that any such sales would be profitable. Although demand and prices for our lime and limestone products have been relatively strong in recent years, we are unable to predict future demand and prices, especially given the current recessionary conditions, and cannot provide any assurance that current levels of demand and prices will continue or that any future increases in demand or price can be maintained. 11 Table of Contents The lime industry is highly regionalized and competitive. Our competitors are predominately private companies. The primary competitive factors in the lime industry are quality, price, ability to meet customer demand, proximity to customers, personal relationships and timeliness of deliveries, with varying emphasis on these factors depending upon the specific product application. To the extent that one or more of our competitors becomes more successful with respect to any key competitive factor, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. Natural Gas Interests. Historically, the markets for natural gas have been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. Various factors that are beyond our control will affect the demand for and prices of natural gas, such as: • the worldwide and domestic supplies of natural gas; • the price and level of foreign imports; • the level of consumer and industrial demand; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the availability of pipeline capacity; • weather conditions; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and • the overall economic environment. The natural gas industry is cyclical in nature and tends to reflect general economic conditions. The U.S. and other world economies are in a recession which could last well into 2009 and beyond. The recession has led to significant reductions in demand and pricing for our natural gas production, beginning in the second half 2008 and continuing into 2009. In addition, lower natural gas prices may reduce the amount of natural gas that is economical for our operators to develop and produce on the O & G Properties. Reduced prices and production could severely reduce our revenues, gross profit and cash flows from our Natural Gas Interests and thus could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We do not control development and production operations on the O & G Properties, which could impact our Natural Gas Interests. As the owner of non-operating working interests and royalty interests, our ability to influence development of, and production from, the O & G Properties is severely limited. All decisions related to development and production on the O & G Properties will be made by the operators and may be influenced by factors beyond our control, including but not limited to natural gas prices, interest rates, budgetary considerations and general industry and economic conditions. The occurrence of an operational risk or uncertainty that materially impacts the operations of the operators of the O & G Properties could have a material adverse effect on the amount that we receive in connection with our interests in production from our O & G Properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our income is affected by development, production and other costs, some of which are outside of our control. The income that comes from our working interests, and to a lesser extent our royalty interests, is directly affected by increases in development, production and other costs. Some of these costs are outside our control, including costs of regulatory compliance and severance and other similar taxes. Other expenditures are dictated by business necessity, such as drilling additional wells to increase recovery rates. 12 Table of Contents Our natural gas reserves are depleting assets, and we have no ability to explore for new reserves. In addition, our ability to increase our proved developed reserves is limited to any potential additional wells that may be drilled by the operators on the O & G Properties. Our revenues from our Natural Gas Interests depend in large part on the quantity of natural gas developed and produced from the O & G Properties. Our producing wells will experience declines in production rates due to depletion of their natural gas reserves. We have no ability to explore for new reserves. Any increases in our proved developed reserves will come from the operators drilling additional wells on the O & G Properties. The timing and number of potential additional wells, if any, depends on the market prices of natural gas and on other factors beyond our control. Drilling activities on the O & G Properties may not be productive, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Drilling involves a wide variety of risks, including the risk that no commercially productive natural gas reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing, recompleting, working over and operating wells is often uncertain, and drilling operations may be delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: • Pressure or irregularities in formations; • Equipment failures or accidents; • Unexpected drilling conditions; • Shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment; and • Adverse weather conditions Future drilling activities, if any, recompletions or workovers on the O & G Properties may not be successful. If these activities are unsuccessful, this failure could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A natural disaster, accident or catastrophe could damage pipelines, gathering systems and other facilities that service wells on the O & G Properties, which could substantially limit operations and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. If pipelines, gathering systems or other facilities that serve our O & G Properties are damaged by any natural disaster, accident, catastrophe or other event, revenues from our Natural Gas Interests could be significantly interrupted. Any event that interrupts the development, production, gathering or transportation of our natural gas, or which causes us to share in significant expenditures not covered by insurance, could adversely impact our gross profit from our Natural Gas Interests. We do not carry business interruption insurance on our Natural Gas Interests. The O & G Properties are geographically concentrated, which could cause net proceeds to be impacted by regional events. The O & G Properties are all natural gas properties located exclusively in the Barnett Shale Formation. Because of this geographic concentration, any regional events, including natural disasters, that increase costs, reduce availability of equipment or supplies, reduce demand or limit production may impact our gross profit from our Natural Gas Interests more than if the Properties were more geographically diversified. The number of prospective natural gas purchasers and methods of delivery for our gas are also considerably less than would otherwise exist from a more geographically diverse group of interests. Governmental policies, laws and regulations could have an adverse impact on our O & G Properties and business. The O & G Properties and our business are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the oil and natural gas industry, as well as regulations relating to safety matters. These laws and regulations can have a significant impact on production and costs of development and production. 13 Table of Contents Environmental costs and liabilities and changing environmental regulation could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As with other companies engaged in the ownership, development and production of natural gas, we always expect to have some risk of exposure to environmental costs and liabilities. The costs associated with environmental compliance or remediation could reduce the gross profits we would receive from our interests. The O & G Properties are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulatory requirements relating to environmental affairs, health and safety and waste management. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with applicable regulations and permits, which could increase development and production costs on our O & G Properties and adversely affect our cash flows. Third parties may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance. It is likely that expenditures in connection with environmental matters, as part of normal capital expenditure programs, will affect our cash flows from the O & G Properties. Future environmental law developments, such as stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies, including legislation mandating specific near-term and long-range reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, could significantly increase the costs of production from the O & G Properties and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable 