ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. During the last few years, we have borrowed additional money to pay for our modernization and expansion projects and the acquisitions of St. Clair and the Delta, Colorado facilities. Therefore we have increased our total indebtedness compared to prior years. As of December 31, 2005, our total consolidated bank debt was $55,000,000. Our indebtedness represented 48.6% of our total capitalization at December 31, 2005. As a result of our total indebtedness, a large portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness. Our ability to service our debt and to comply with the financial and restrictive covenants contained in our new credit facilities is subject to financial, economic, competitive and other factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. In particular, our ability to service our indebtedness will depend upon our ability to sustain current levels of revenues and cash flows from operations as a result of the modernization and expansion of the Texas and Arkansas plants and the successful integration of our newly acquired Oklahoma operations. During 2006, we will need to borrow additional money to complete the third kiln at our Arkansas facilities. Funds available under our $30,000,000 new revolving credit facility and funds generated from operations should allow us to meet current liquidity demands, including building the third kiln, which we estimate will cost approximately $26,000,000. However, should our cash flows from operations deteriorate, or we incur material additional costs or delays in the construction of the third kiln at Arkansas, we may have to obtain additional financing, and there is no assurance that we will be able to do so at favorable rates, given our current levels of indebtedness. In the normal course of our business operations, we face various business and financial risks that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and competitive position. Not all risks are foreseeable or within our ability to control. These risks arise from factors including, but not limited to, fluctuating demand for lime and limestone products, our ability to produce and store quantities of lime and limestone products sufficient in amount and quality to meet customer demands, the success of our modernization and expansion strategies, including our ability to execute the strategies and complete projects on time and within budget, our ability to integrate, refurbish and/or improve acquired facilities, our access to capital, increasing costs, especially natural gas and other energy prices, inclement weather, and the effects of seasonal trends. We incur environmental compliance costs, including capital costs, maintenance and operating costs with respect to pollution control facilities, the cost of ongoing monitoring programs, the cost of reclamation and remediation efforts and other similar costs and liabilities relating to our compliance with Environmental Laws, and we expect these cost and liabilities to continue to increase. The rate of change of Environmental Laws has been rapid over the last decade, and compliance can require significant expenditures. We believe that our expenditure requirements for future environmental compliance will continue to increase as operational and reporting standards increase. Discovery of currently unknown conditions and unforeseen liabilities could require additional expenditures. We intend to comply with all Environmental Laws and believe that our accrual for environmental costs at December 31, 2005 is reasonable. Because many of the requirements are subjective and therefore not quantifiable or presently determinable, or may be affected by future legislation and rulemaking, it is not possible to accurately predict the aggregate future costs of compliance and their effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or competitive position. In order to maintain our competitive position, we need to continue to expand our operations and production capacity and to sell the resulting increased production. - 5 - Table of Contents We may initiate various capital projects and acquisitions. These would most likely require that we incur additional debt. Notwithstanding current demand for lime and limestone products, we cannot guarantee that any such project or acquisition would be successful, that we will be able to sell any resulting increased production or that any such sales will be profitable. The lime industry is highly regionalized and competitive. Our competitors are predominately private companies. The primary competitive factors in the lime industry are quality, price, ability to meet customer demand, proximity to customers, personal relationships and timeliness of deliveries, with varying emphasis on these factors depending upon the specific product application. To the extent that one or more of our competitors becomes more successful with respect to any key competitive factor, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or competitive position could be materially adversely affected. Although demand and prices for lime and limestone have been improving in recent years, we are unable to predict future demand and prices, and cannot provide any assurance that current levels of demand and prices will continue or that any future increases in demand or price can be sustained. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable 