ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. General During the last few years, we have borrowed additional money to pay for our modernization and expansion projects, our expansion into the lime slurry business and the acquisitions of St. Clair and the Delta, Colorado facilities. Therefore, we have increased our total indebtedness compared to prior years. As of December 31, 2006, our total consolidated bank debt was $64.6 million. Our indedebtedness represented approximately 47% of our total capitalization at December 31, 2006. As a result of our total indebtedness, a large portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness. Our ability to service our debt and to comply with the financial and restrictive covenants contained in our credit facilities is subject to financial, economic, competitive and other factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. In particular, our ability to service our debt will depend upon our ability to sustain current levels of revenues and cash flows from operations as a result of the modernization and expansion projects and recent acquisitions. Remaining funds available under our $30 million revolving credit facility and funds generated from operations should allow us to meet current liquidity demands. Should we have to obtain additional financing, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so at a favorable rate, given our current level of indebtedness. Lime and Limestone Operations In the normal course of our business operations, we face various business and financial risks that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and competitive position. Not all risks are foreseeable or within our ability to control. These risks arise from factors including, but not limited to, fluctuating demand for lime and limestone products, including as a result of downturns in the economy and specific industries and changes in legislation and regulations, our ability to produce and store quantities of lime and limestone products sufficient in amount and quality to meet customer demands, the success of our modernization and expansion strategies, including our ability to execute the strategies and complete projects on time and within budget, our ability to integrate, refurbish and/or improve acquired facilities, our access to capital, increasing costs, especially fuel, electricity and transportation costs, inclement weather, and the effects of seasonal trends. We receive most of our coal and coke by rail, so the availability of sufficient solid fuels to run our plants could be diminished significantly in the event of major rail disruptions. In addition, our freight costs to deliver our products are high relative to the value of our products and have increased significantly in recent years. If we are unable to continue to pass along our increasing freight costs, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or competitive position could be materially adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents We incur environmental compliance costs, including capital, maintenance and operating costs with respect to pollution control facilities, the cost of ongoing monitoring programs, the cost of reclamation and remediation efforts and other similar costs and liabilities relating to our compliance with Environmental Laws, and we expect these costs and liabilities to continue to increase. The rate of change of Environmental Laws has been rapid over the last decade, and compliance can require significant expenditures. We believe that our expenditure requirements for future environmental compliance will continue to increase as operational and reporting standards increase. Discovery of currently unknown conditions and unforeseen liabilities could require additional expenditures. The potential regulation of carbon dioxide CO2 emissions remain an issue for the Company and other similar manufacturing companies. Although no restrictions have yet been imposed under U.S. federal laws, many bills have been filed at the federal and state levels that could impose CO2 emission reduction measures on lime plants in the future. The consequences of CO2 reduction measures are potentially significant, as the production of CO2 is inherent in the manufacture of lime (through the calcination of limestone). There is no assurance that a change in the law will not be adopted, such as the imposition of a carbon tax or limitations on raw materials use, fuel use, or production rates, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or competitive position. We intend to comply with all Environmental Laws and believe that our accrual for environmental costs at December 31, 2006 is reasonable. Because many of the requirements are subjective and therefore not quantifiable or presently determinable, or may be affected by future legislation and rulemaking, it is not possible to accurately predict the aggregate future costs of compliance and their effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or competitive position. In order to maintain our competitive position, we may need to continue to expand our operations and production capacity and to sell the resulting increased production. We may initiate various capital projects and acquisitions. These would most likely require that we incur additional debt. Notwithstanding current demand for lime and limestone products, we cannot guarantee that any such project or acquisition would be successful, that we will be able to sell any resulting increased production or that any such sales will be profitable. The lime industry is highly regionalized and competitive. Our competitors are predominately private companies. The primary competitive factors in the lime industry are quality, price, ability to meet customer demand, proximity to customers, personal relationships and timeliness of deliveries, with varying emphasis on these factors depending upon the specific product application. To the extent that one or more of our competitors becomes more successful with respect to any key competitive factor, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or competitive position could be materially adversely affected. Although demand and prices for lime and limestone have been improving in recent years, we are unable to predict future demand and prices, and cannot provide any assurance that current levels of demand and prices will continue or that any future increases in demand or price can be sustained. Natural Gas Interests Historically, the markets for natural gas have been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. Various factors that are beyond our control will affect the demand for and prices of natural gas, such as: • the worldwide and domestic supplies of natural gas; • the price and level of foreign imports; • the level of consumer and industrial demand; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the availability of pipeline capacity; 10 Table of Contents • weather conditions; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and • the overall economic environment. Lower natural gas prices may reduce the amount of natural gas that is economic to produce and thus reduce our revenues and operating income. We do not control operations and development of the O & G Properties, which could impact our natural gas interests. As the owner of non-operating working interests and royalty interests, our ability to influence development of the O & G Properties is severely limited. All decisions related to development on the O & G Properties will be made by the operators and may be influenced by factors beyond our control, including but not limited to natural gas prices, interest rates, budgetary considerations and general industry and economic conditions. The occurrence of an operational risk or uncertainty which materially impacts the operations of the operators of the O & G Properties could have a material adverse effect on the amount that we receive in connection with our interests in production from our properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Income is affected by production and other costs, some of which are outside of our control. The income that comes from our working interests, and to a lesser extent, our royalty interests, is directly affected by increases in production costs and other costs. Some of these costs are outside our control, including costs of regulatory compliance and severance and other similar taxes. Other expenditures are dictated by business necessity, such as drilling additional wells to increase recovery rates. Our natural gas reserves are depleting assets, and our ability to replace them is limited to development of the remaining undeveloped acreage subject to the O & G Lease or the Drillsite Agreement. Our revenues from our natural gas interests depend in large part on the quantity of natural gas produced from the O & G Properties. Our producing natural gas wells over time will experience declines in production due to depletion of their natural gas reserves. Any increases in our reserves will come from the operators’ drilling activities on the remaining undeveloped acreage of the O & G Properties. The timing and number of development wells to replace natural gas produced depends on the market prices of natural gas and on other factors beyond our control. Drilling activities on the O & G Properties may not be productive, which could have an adverse effect on future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Drilling involves a wide variety of risks, including the risk that no commercially productive natural gas reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: • Pressure or irregularities in formations; • Equipment failures or accidents; • Unexpected drilling conditions; • Shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment; and • Adverse weather conditions Future drilling activities on the O & G Properties may not be successful. If these activities are unsuccessful, this failure could have an adverse effect on our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents A natural disaster or catastrophe could damage pipelines, gathering systems and other facilities that service wells on the O & G Properties, which could substantially limit our operations and adversely affect our financial condition and cash flows. If gathering systems, pipelines or other facilities that serve our properties are damaged by any natural disaster, accident, catastrophe or other event, revenues from our natural gas interests could be significantly interrupted. Any event that interrupts the production, gathering or transportation of our natural gas, or which causes us to share in significant expenditures not covered by insurance, could adversely impact gross profit from our natural gas interests. We do not carry business interruption insurance on our natural gas interests. The O & G Properties are geographically concentrated, which could cause net proceeds to be impacted by regional events. The O & G Properties are all natural gas properties located exclusively in the Barnett Shale Formation. Because of this geographic concentration, any regional events, including natural disasters, that increase costs, reduce availability of equipment or supplies, reduce demand or limit production may impact our gross profit more than if the properties were more geographically diversified. The number of prospective natural gas purchasers and methods of delivery are considerably less than would otherwise exist from a more geographically diverse group of interests. Governmental policies, laws and regulations could have an adverse impact on our business. Our business and the properties in which we hold interests are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the oil and natural gas industry, as well as regulations relating to safety matters. These laws and regulations can have a significant impact on production and costs of production. Environmental costs and liabilities and changing environmental regulation could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flows. As with other companies engaged in the ownership and production of natural gas, we always expect to have some risk of exposure to environmental costs and liabilities. The costs associated with environmental compliance or remediation could reduce the amount we would receive from our interests. The O & G Properties are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulatory requirements relating to environmental affairs, health and safety and waste management. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with applicable regulations and permits, which could increase production costs on our properties and adversely affect their cash flow. Third parties may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance. It is likely that expenditures in connection with environmental matters, as part of normal capital expenditure programs, will affect the net cash flow from the O & G Properties. Future environmental law developments, such as stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies, could significantly increase the costs of production from the O & G Properties and reduce our cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable 