ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. General. Both of our business segments continue to be adversely impacted by difficult economic conditions in the U.S. The continuing difficult economic conditions in the United States have reduced demand for our lime and limestone products. While demand from our construction customers, primarily those involved in highway construction, increased during 2012, our steel customers reduced their purchase volumes due to the ongoing difficult economic conditions. The increased supply of natural gas in recent years has resulted in dramatically decreased natural gas prices, while prices for natural gas liquids decreased dramatically during 2012, also due to increased supply. Corresponding to the decrease in natural gas and natural gas liquids prices, drilling activity declined, reducing demand from our oil and gas services customers for our lime and limestone products. For us to maintain or increase our profitability, we must maintain or increase our revenues and improve cash flows and continue to control our operational and selling, general and administrative expenses. If we are unable to maintain our revenues and control our costs in these difficult economic times, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. The ongoing global financial uncertainties may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations in various ways. The ongoing financial crisis and uncertainties in the global financial markets may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations in various ways, and we may face increased challenges if the current difficult economic conditions do not improve. While the severe difficulties in the credit markets and increased volatility in the equity markets have abated to some degree, the global recession and unprecedented calls for governmental intervention continue. If the current economic conditions do not improve, it is possible that our customers and counterparties may face financial difficulties that could lead them to default on their obligations to us or seek bankruptcy protection. We may be adversely affected by any disruption in, or failure of, our information technology systems. We rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our information technology ("IT") systems for our manufacturing, financial and administrative functions. We also face the challenge of supporting our IT systems and implementing upgrades when necessary. Our IT systems security measures are focused 13 Table of Contents on the prevention, detection and remediation of damage from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, cyber attack and other similar disruptions. However, our IT systems may remain vulnerable to damage despite our implementation of security measures that we feel protect our IT systems. Any failure, accident or security breach involving our IT systems could result in disruption to our operations. A material breach in the security of our IT systems could negatively impact our manufacturing operations or financial and administrative functions, or result in the compromise of personal information of our employees, customers or suppliers. To the extent any such failure, accident or security breach results in disruption to our operations, loss or disclosure of, or damage to, our data or confidential information, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Lime and Limestone Operations. In the normal course of our Lime and Limestone Operations, we face various business and financial risks that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and competitive position. Not all risks are foreseeable or within our ability to control. These risks arise from various factors, including, but not limited to, fluctuating demand for our lime and limestone products, including as a result of downturns in the economy and construction, housing and steel industries, changes in legislation and regulations, including Environmental Laws, health and safety regulations and requirements to renew or obtain operating permits, our ability to produce and store quantities of lime and limestone products sufficient in amount and quality to meet customer demands and specifications, the success of our modernization, expansion and growth strategies, including our ability to sell our increased lime capacity at acceptable prices, our ability to execute our strategies and complete projects on time and within budget, our ability to integrate, refurbish and/or improve acquired facilities, our access to capital, increasing costs, especially fuel, electricity, transportation and freight costs, inclement weather and the effects of seasonal trends. We receive a portion of our coal and petroleum coke by rail, so the availability of sufficient solid fuels to run our plants could be diminished significantly in the event of major rail disruptions. Domestic coal and petroleum coke are also being exported, increasing competition and prices for the domestic supply. In addition, our freight costs to deliver our lime and limestone products are high relative to the value of our products and have increased significantly in recent years. If we are unable to continue to pass along our increasing fuel, electricity, transportation and freight costs to our customers, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. Our mining and other operations are subject to operating risks that are beyond our control, which could result in materially increased operating expenses and decreased production and shipment levels that could materially adversely affect our Lime and Limestone Operations and their profitability. We mine limestone in open pit and underground mining operations and process and distribute that limestone through our plants and other facilities. Certain factors beyond our control could disrupt our operations, adversely affect production and shipments and increase our operating costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including geological formation problems that may cause poor mining conditions, an accident or other major incident at a site that may cause all or part of our operations to cease for some period of time and increase our expenses, mining, processing and plant equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems that may cause disruptions and added expenses, and adverse weather and natural disasters, such as heavy rains, flooding, ice storms, drought and other natural events, that may affect operations, transportation or customers. 14 Table of Contents If any of these conditions or events occurs, our operations may be disrupted, we could experience a delay or halt of production or shipments, our operating costs could increase significantly and we could be exposed to fines, penalties, assessments and other liabilities. If our insurance coverage is limited or excludes certain of these conditions or events, we may not be able to recover any of the losses that we may incur as a result of such conditions or events, some of which may be substantial. We incur environmental compliance costs, including capital, maintenance and operating costs, with respect to pollution control equipment, the cost of ongoing monitoring programs, the cost of reclamation and remediation efforts and other similar costs and liabilities relating to our compliance with Environmental Laws, and we expect these costs and liabilities to continue to increase, including possible new costs, taxes and limitations on operations such as those related to possible climate change initiatives, including regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. The rate of change of Environmental Laws has been rapid over the last decade, and we may face possible new costs, taxes and limitations on operations, including those related to climate change initiatives. We believe our expenditure requirements for future environmental compliance, including complying with the new nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide and ozone emission limitations under the NAAQS and regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, will continue to increase as operating, reporting and other environmental standards increase. Discovery of currently unknown conditions and unforeseen liabilities could require additional expenditures. The regulation of greenhouse gas emissions remains an issue for the Company and other similar manufacturing companies. There is no assurance that changes in the law or regulations will not be adopted, such as the imposition of a carbon tax, a cap and trade program requiring the Company to purchase carbon credits, or other measures that would require reductions in emissions or changes to raw materials, fuel use or production rates, that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and competitive position. We intend to comply with all Environmental Laws and believe our accrual for environmental liabilities at December 31, 2012 is reasonable. Because many of the requirements are subjective and therefore not quantifiable or presently determinable, or may be affected by additional legislation and rulemaking, including those related to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, there is no assurance that we will be able to continue to renew our operating permits, and it is not possible to accurately predict the aggregate future costs and liabilities relating to environmental compliance and their effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and competitive position. We quote on a delivered price basis to certain customers, which requires us to estimate future delivery costs. Our actual delivery costs may exceed these estimates, which would reduce our profitability. Delivery costs are impacted by the price of diesel. Should diesel prices increase, we incur additional fuel surcharges from freight companies that cannot be passed on to our customers that have been quoted a delivered price. A material increase in the price of diesel could have a material adverse effect on the Company's profitability. To maintain our competitive position, we may need to continue to expand our operations and production capacity, obtain financing for any such expansion at reasonable interest rates and acceptable terms and sell the resulting increased production at acceptable prices. We may undertake various capital projects and acquisitions. These may require that we incur additional debt, which may not be available to us at all or at reasonable interest rates or on acceptable terms. Given current and projected demand for lime and limestone products, we cannot guarantee that any such project or acquisition would be successful, that we would be able to sell any resulting increased production at acceptable prices or that any such sales would be profitable. 15 Table of Contents Although prices for our lime and limestone products have been relatively strong in recent years, we are unable to predict future demand and prices, especially given the continuing economic difficulties, and cannot provide any assurance that current levels of demand and prices will continue or that any future increases in demand or prices can be maintained. The lime industry is highly regionalized and competitive. Our competitors are predominately large private companies. The primary competitive factors in the lime industry are quality, price, ability to meet customer demands and specifications, proximity to customers, personal relationships and timeliness of deliveries, with varying emphasis on these factors depending upon the specific product application. To the extent that one or more of our competitors becomes more successful with respect to any key competitive factor, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. Natural Gas Interests. Historically, the markets for natural gas have been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. Various factors that are beyond our control will affect the demand for, and prices of, natural gas, such as: •the worldwide and domestic supplies of natural gas; •the development of new technologies and reserves of natural gas in the United States; •the price and level of foreign imports; •the level of consumer and industrial demand; •the price and availability of alternative fuels; •the availability of pipeline capacity; •weather conditions; •domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and •the overall economic environment. The natural gas industry is cyclical in nature and tends to reflect general economic and gas supply conditions. Recent technological advances, such as hydraulic fracturing, have enabled the industry to access additional reserves, and have greatly increased the current supply of natural gas in the United States, resulting in lower natural gas prices. Lower natural gas prices may reduce the amount of natural gas that is economical for our operators to develop and produce on the O & G Properties or cause them to shut in wells for extended periods of time or to plug and abandon wells. Reduced prices and production could severely reduce our revenues, gross profit and cash flows from our Natural Gas Interests and thus could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We do not control development and production operations on the O & G Properties, which could impact our Natural Gas Interests. As the owner of royalty and non-operating working interests, our ability to influence development of, and production from, the O & G Properties is severely limited. All decisions related to development and production on the O & G Properties will be made by the operators and may be influenced by factors beyond our control, including but not limited to natural gas prices, pipeline capacities, interest rates, budgetary considerations and general industry and economic conditions. 16 Table of Contents The occurrence of an operational risk or uncertainty that materially impacts the operations of the operators of the O & G Properties could have a material adverse effect on the amount we receive in connection with our interests in production from our O & G Properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our natural gas income is affected by development, production and other costs, some of which are outside of our control, and possible unitizations. The natural gas income that comes from our working interests, and to a lesser extent our royalty interests, is directly affected by increases in development, production and other costs, as well as unitizations of existing wells. Some of these costs are outside our control, including drilling and production costs, costs of regulatory compliance and severance and other similar taxes. Other expenditures are dictated by business necessity, such as drilling additional wells or working over existing wells to increase recovery rates. Our natural gas reserves are depleting assets, and we have no ability to explore for new reserves. In addition, our ability to increase our proved developed reserves is limited to the drilling of potential additional wells and reworking of existing wells by the operators on the O & G Properties. Our revenues from our Natural Gas Interests depend in large part on the quantity of natural gas developed and produced from the O & G Properties. Our producing wells will naturally experience declines in production rates due to depletion of their natural gas reserves, and the operators may determine to temporarily shut in or to plug and abandon a producing well if they believe that it is no longer economical to continue production from the well. We have no ability to explore for new reserves. Any increases in our proved developed reserves will come from the operators drilling additional wells or working over existing wells on the O & G Properties. The timing and number of such additional or reworked wells, if any, depend on the market prices of natural gas and on other factors beyond our control. Drilling activities on the O & G Properties may not be productive, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Drilling involves a wide variety of risks, including the risk that no commercially productive natural gas reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing, working over and operating wells is often uncertain, and drilling operations may be delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: •Pressure or irregularities in formations; •Equipment failures or accidents; •Unexpected drilling conditions; •Shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment; and •Adverse weather conditions. Future drilling activities, if any, or workovers on the O & G Properties may not be successful. If these activities are unsuccessful, this failure could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 17 Table of Contents A natural disaster, accident or catastrophe could damage pipelines, gathering systems and other facilities that service wells on the O & G Properties, which could substantially limit operations and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. If pipelines, gathering systems or other facilities that serve our O & G Properties are damaged by any natural disaster, accident, catastrophe or other event, revenues from our Natural Gas Interests could be significantly interrupted. Any event that interrupts the development, production, gathering or transportation of our natural gas, or which causes us to share in significant expenditures not covered by insurance, could adversely impact our gross profit from our Natural Gas Interests. We do not carry business interruption insurance on our Natural Gas Interests. The O & G Properties are geographically concentrated, which could cause net proceeds to be impacted by regional events, including natural disasters and reduced pipeline capacity resulting from production from other wells in the area. The O & G Properties are all natural gas properties located exclusively in the Barnett Shale Formation. Because of this geographic concentration, any regional events, including natural disasters and production from other wells in the area, that increase costs, reduce availability of equipment, supplies or pipeline capacity, reduce demand or limit production may impact our gross profit from our Natural Gas Interests more than if the Properties were more geographically diversified. The number of prospective natural gas purchasers and methods of delivery for our gas are also considerably less than would otherwise exist from a more geographically diverse group of interests. Governmental policies, laws and regulations could have an adverse impact on our O & G Properties and natural gas business. The O & G Properties and our natural gas business are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the oil and natural gas industry, as well as regulations relating to safety matters. These laws and regulations can have a significant impact on the costs and amount of development and production. Environmental costs and liabilities and changing environmental regulation associated with our O & G Properties could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As with other companies engaged in the ownership, development and production of natural gas, we always expect to have some risk of exposure to environmental costs and liabilities. The costs associated with environmental compliance or remediation could reduce the gross profits we would receive from our Natural Gas Interests. The O & G Properties are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulatory requirements relating to environmental affairs, health and safety and waste management. Increased regulation of natural gas drilling and production could increase development and production costs on our O & G Properties and adversely affect our cash flows. Third parties could also pursue legal actions to enforce compliance or assert claims for damages. Further, under certain environmental laws and regulations, the operators of the underlying properties could also be subject to joint and several, strict liability for the removal or remediation of released materials or property contamination from drilling, including hydraulic fracturing, or waste disposal, regardless of whether the operators were responsible for the release or contamination or if the operations were in compliance with all applicable laws. Drought conditions and increasing demands on the water supply for municipal, agricultural, and other uses may limit the availability of and/or increase the cost of large volumes of water required for hydraulic fracturing. 18 Table of Contents It is likely that our expenditures in connection with environmental matters, as part of normal capital expenditure programs, will affect the profitability of our O & G Properties. Future Environmental Law developments, such as stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies, including climate change legislation mandating specific near-term and long-range reductions in greenhouse gas emissions or increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing, could significantly increase the costs of production from the O & G Properties and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 