ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company cautions investors that its performance and, therefore, any forward-looking statement is subject to risks and uncertainties. Various important factors including, but not limited to, the following may cause the Company’s future results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. General Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Business, Operating Results and Financial Condition Current and future conditions in the economy have an inherent degree of uncertainty. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole. It is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts, sectors and regions of the economy, including industrial, military, telecommunication, photovoltaic and medical markets in which we participate. Because all components of our forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth or contraction in the markets we serve and demand for our products, the prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures very difficult to make. In addition, changes in general economic conditions may affect industries in which our customers operate. These changes could include decreases in the rate of consumption or use of our customers’ products due to economic downturn. These conditions may have a material adverse effect on demand for our customers’ product and, in turn, on demand for our products. Adverse changes have occurred and, although we have experienced improvements in worldwide markets and customers’ demand in fiscal year 2011, changes may occur in the future as a result of declining or flat global or regional economic conditions, fluctuations in currency and commodity prices, wavering confidence, capital expenditure reductions, unemployment, decline in stock markets, contraction of credit availability or other factors affecting economic conditions generally. For example, factors that may affect our operating results include disruptions to the credit and financial markets in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere; adverse effects of the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in Europe; the impact of a failure to further increase the debt ceiling in the U.S.; contractions or limited growth in consumer spending or consumer credit; and adverse economic conditions that may be specific to the Internet, e-commerce and payments industries. These changes may negatively affect sales of products, increase exposure to losses from bad debt, and increase the cost and availability of financing and increase costs associated with manufacturing and distributing products. Any economic downturn or the failure to sustain the recent recovery from the global economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our Future Success Depends on International Sales and Management of Global Operations Sales to customers in countries other than the U.S. accounted for approximately 59%, 49% and 44% of revenues during the years ended June 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. In addition, we manufacture products in Singapore, China, Vietnam, the Philippines and Germany and maintain direct sales offices in Japan, Germany, Switzerland, the U.K., Belgium, Singapore, China and Italy. Sales and operations outside of the U.S. are subject to certain inherent risks, including fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies, the current global economic uncertainties, tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers, political and economic instability, restrictions on the export or import of technology, potentially limited intellectual property protection, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations and potentially adverse tax consequences. There can be no assurance that any of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In particular, currency exchange fluctuations in countries where we do business in the local currency could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations or financial condition by rendering us less price-competitive than foreign manufacturers. Our sales in Japan are denominated in Yen and, accordingly, are affected by fluctuations in the dollar/Yen currency exchange rates. We generally reduce our exposure to such fluctuations of the Yen through forward exchange agreements which target to hedge approximately 75% of our sales in Japan. We do not engage in the speculative trading of financial derivatives. There can be no assurance, however, that our practices will reduce or eliminate the risk of fluctuation of the U.S. dollar/Japanese Yen exchange rate. 16 A Significant Portion of Our Business is Dependent on Other Cyclical Industries Our business is significantly dependent on the demand for products produced by end-users of industrial lasers and telecommunication products. Many of these end-users are in industries that have historically experienced a highly cyclical demand for their products. As a result, demand for our products is subject to cyclical fluctuations. This cyclical demand could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. There Are Limitations on the Protection of Our Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyright and trademark laws combined with employee noncompetition and nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or intellectual property. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that third-parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future. Asserting our intellectual property rights or defending against third-party claims could involve substantial expense, thus materially and adversely affecting our business, results of operations or financial condition. In the event a third-party were successful in a claim that one of our processes infringed its proprietary rights, we could be required to pay substantial damages or royalties, or expend substantial amounts in order to obtain a license or modify processes so that they no longer infringe such proprietary rights, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We Depend on Highly Complex Manufacturing Processes Which Require Products from Limited Sources of Supply We utilize high-quality, optical grade ZnSe in the production of many of our infrared optical products. We are the leading producer of ZnSe for our internal use and for external sale. The production of ZnSe is a complex process requiring a highly controlled environment. A number of factors, including defective or contaminated materials, could adversely affect our ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields of high quality ZnSe. ZnSe is available from only one significant outside source whose quantities and quality of ZnSe may be limited. Lack of adequate availability of high quality ZnSe would have a material adverse effect upon us. There can be no assurance that we will not experience manufacturing yield inefficiencies which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We produce Hydrogen Selenide gas which is used in our production of ZnSe. There are risks inherent in the production and handling of such material. Our lack of proper handling of Hydrogen Selenide could require us to curtail our production of Hydrogen Selenide. Hydrogen Selenide is available from only one outside source whose quantities and quality may be limited. The cost of purchasing such material is greater than the cost of internal production. As a result, the purchase of a substantial portion of such material from the outside source would increase our ZnSe production costs. Therefore, an inability to internally produce Hydrogen Selenide could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, we produce and utilize other high purity and relatively uncommon materials and compounds to manufacture our products including, but not limited to ZnS, YAG, YLF, CaF2, Ge, Se, Te, Bi2Te 3 and SiC. A significant failure of our internal production processes or our suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of these necessary materials on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Commodity Prices May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in commodity prices. Our businesses purchase, produce and sell high purity Te, Se and other raw materials based upon quoted market prices from minor metal exchanges. As a result, changes in commodity prices which may not be recovered in our product sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 17 We May Expand Product Lines and Markets by Acquiring Other Businesses Our business strategy includes expanding our product lines and markets through internal product development and acquisitions. Any acquisition could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and amortization expense related to intangible assets acquired, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, acquired businesses may be experiencing operating losses. Any acquisition will involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired company’s operations and products, uncertainties associated with operating in new markets and working with new customers and the potential loss of the acquired company’s key personnel. The following information relates to significant acquisitions made between July 1, 2004 and June 30, 2011. Acquired Party Year Acquired Business Segments PercentageOwnershipas ofJune 30, 2011 Marlow Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2005 Compound Semiconductor Group 100 % Pacific Rare Specialty Metals & Chemicals, Inc. Fiscal 2007 Military & Materials 98 % HIGHYAG Lasertechnologie GmbH Fiscal 2008 Infrared Optics 75 % Photop Technologies, Inc. Fiscal 2010 Near-Infrared Optics 100 % Max Levy Autograph Inc. Fiscal 2011 Military and Materials 100 % Continued U.S. Budget Deficits Could Result in Significant Defense Spending Cuts With the increase in the military business within our Infrared Optics, Near-Infrared Optics and Military & Materials segments, sales to customers in the defense industry totaled approximately 23% of revenues in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011. These customers in turn generally contract with a governmental entity, typically a U.S. governmental agency. Continued record U.S. Federal budget deficits could result in significant pressure to reduce the annual defense budget, which could result in delays and/or cancellations of major programs. Most governmental programs are subject to funding approval and can be modified or terminated with no warning upon the determination of a legislative or administrative body. The loss of or failure to obtain certain contracts or the loss of a major government customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Some Systems Are Complex in Design and May Contain Defects that Are Not Detected Until Deployed Which Could Increase Our Costs and Reduce Our Revenues Some systems that utilize our products are inherently complex in design and require ongoing maintenance. As a result of the technical complexity of our products, changes in our or our suppliers’ manufacturing processes or in the use of defective or contaminated materials by us or our suppliers could result in a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields and product reliability. To the extent that we do not achieve acceptable yields or product reliability, our business, results of operation, financial condition or customer relationships could be materially adversely affected. 18 Our customers may discover defects in our products after the products have been fully deployed and operated under peak stress conditions. In addition, some of our products are combined with products from other vendors, which may contain defects. Should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. If we are unable to fix defects or other problems, we could experience, among other things: loss of customers; increased costs of product returns and warranty expenses; damage to our brand reputation; failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; diversion of development and engineering resources; or legal action by our customers. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We May Encounter Substantial Competition We may encounter substantial competition from other companies in the same market, including established companies with significant resources. Some of our competitors may have financial, technical, marketing or other capabilities more extensive than ours and may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and other competitive pressures. We may not be able to compete successfully against our present or future competitors, and competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The Market Price of Our Common Stock and the Stock Market in General Can Be Highly Volatile Factors that could cause fluctuation in our stock price include, among other things, general economic and market conditions; actual or anticipated variations in operating results; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; our inability to meet or exceed securities analysts’ estimates or expectations; conditions or trends in the industries in which our products are purchased; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, divestitures, joint ventures or other strategic initiatives; capital commitments; additions or departures of key personnel; and sales of our Common Stock. Many of these factors are beyond our control. These factors could cause the market price of our Common Stock to decline, regardless of our operating performance. Our Success Depends on Our Ability to Retain Key Personnel We are highly dependent upon the experience and continuing services of certain scientists, engineers, production and management personnel. Competition for the services of these personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain or attract the personnel necessary for our success. The loss of the services of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our Success Depends on New Products and Processes In order to meet our strategic objectives, we must continue to develop, manufacture and market new products, develop new processes and improve existing processes. As a result, we expect to continue to make significant investments in research and development and to continue to consider from time to time the strategic acquisition of businesses, products or technologies complementary to our business. Our success in developing, introducing and selling new and enhanced products depends upon a variety of factors including product selection, timely and efficient completion of product design and development, timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes, effective sales and marketing and product performance in the field. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and introduce new products or enhancements to our existing products and processes in a manner which satisfies customer needs or achieves market acceptance. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. 19 Keeping Pace with Key Industry Developments is Essential We are engaged in industries which will be affected by future developments. The introduction of products or processes utilizing new developments could render existing products or processes obsolete or unmarketable. Our continued success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce on a timely and cost-effective basis new products, processes and applications that keep pace with developments and address increasingly sophisticated customer requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, developing and marketing new products, applications and processes and that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of product or process enhancements or new products, applications or processes, or that our products, applications or processes will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if we were to incur delays in developing new products, applications or processes or if we do not gain market acceptance for the same. Changes in Tax Rates, Tax Liabilities or Tax Accounting Rules Could Affect Future Results As a global company, we are subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries and jurisdictions. As such, judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. Our future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates or changes in tax laws. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate. For example, proposals for fundamental U.S. international tax reform, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. In addition, we are subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provision and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operation or financial condition. Declines in the Operating Performance of One of Our Business Segments Could Result in an Impairment of the Segment’s Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets As of June 30, 2011, we had goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets of approximately $64.3 million and $9.6 million, respectively, on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We test our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on an annual basis or when an indication of possible impairment exists in order to determine whether the carrying value of our assets is still supported by the fair value of the underlying business. To the extent that it is not, we are required to record an impairment charge to reduce the asset to fair value. A decline in the operating performance of any of our business segments could result in an impairment charge which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Provisions in Our Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws May Limit the Price that Investors May be Willing to Pay in the Future for Shares of Our Common Stock Our articles of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions which could make us a less attractive target for a hostile takeover or make more difficult or discourage a merger proposal, a tender offer or a proxy contest. Such provisions include: classification of the board of directors into three classes; a procedure which requires shareholders or the board of directors to nominate directors in advance of a meeting to elect such directors; the ability of the board of directors to issue additional shares of Common Stock or preferred stock without shareholder approval; and certain provisions requiring supermajority approval (at least two-thirds of the votes cast by all shareholders entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class). In addition, the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law contains provisions which may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control. All of these provisions may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay for shares of our Common Stock. 20 We Are Subject to Stringent Environmental Regulation We use or generate certain hazardous substances in our research and manufacturing facilities. We believe that our handling of such substances is in material compliance with applicable local, state and federal environmental, safety and health regulations at each operating location. We invest substantially in proper protective equipment, process controls and specialized training to minimize risks to employees, surrounding communities and the environment resulting from the presence and handling of such hazardous substances. We regularly conduct employee physical examinations and workplace monitoring regarding such substances. When exposure problems or potential exposure problems have been uncovered, corrective actions have been implemented and re-occurrence has been minimal or non-existent. We do not carry environmental impairment insurance. Relative to the generation and use of the hazardous substance Hydrogen Selenide, we have in place an emergency response plan. Special attention has been given to all procedures pertaining to this gaseous material to minimize the chances of its accidental release into the atmosphere. With respect to the manufacturing, use, storage and disposal of the low-level radioactive material Thorium Fluoride, our facilities and procedures have been inspected and licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Thorium-bearing by-products are collected and shipped as solid waste to a government-approved low-level radioactive waste disposal site in Clive, Utah. The generation, use, collection, storage and disposal of all other hazardous by-products, such as suspended solids containing heavy metals or airborne particulates, are believed by us to be in material compliance with regulations. We believe that we have obtained all of the permits and licenses required for operation of our business. Although we do not know of any material environmental, safety or health problems in our properties or processes, there can be no assurance that problems will not develop in the future which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We Are Subject to Governmental Regulation We are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and non-U.S. governmental entities and other entities at the federal, state and local levels, including, but not limited to, the following: – We are required to comply with various import laws and export control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons, including in certain cases dealings with or between our employees and subsidiaries. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. Compliance with the various import laws that apply to our businesses can restrict our access to, and increase the cost of obtaining, certain products and at times can interrupt our supply of imported inventory. – Exported technology necessary to develop and manufacture certain of the Company’s products are subject to U.S. export control laws and similar laws of other jurisdictions, and the Company may be subject to adverse regulatory consequences, including government oversight of facilities and export transactions, monetary penalties and other sanctions for violations of these laws. In many cases, exports of technology necessary to develop and manufacture the Company’s products are subject to U.S. export control laws. In certain instances, these regulations may prohibit the Company from developing or manufacturing certain of its products for specific end applications outside the United States. 21 – Our agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities may be subject to termination, reduction or modification in the event of changes in government requirements, reductions in federal spending and other factors. We are also subject to investigation and audit for compliance with the requirements of government contracts, including requirements related to procurement integrity, export control, employment practices, the accuracy of records and the recording of costs. A failure to comply with these requirements might result in suspension of these contracts and suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting. In addition, failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services, and damage to our reputation. Natural Disasters or Other Global or Regional Catastrophic Events Could Disrupt Our Operations and Adversely Affect Results Despite our concerted effort to minimize risk to our production capabilities and corporate information systems and to reduce the effect of unforeseen interruptions to us through business continuity planning, we still may be exposed to interruptions due to catastrophe, natural disaster, pandemic, terrorism or acts of war, which are beyond our control, such as the March 2011 earthquake in Japan. Disruptions to our facilities or systems, or to those of our key suppliers, could also interrupt operational processes and adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products and provide services and support to our customers. As a result, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Recently Issued Financial Accounting Standards In June 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued changes to the presentation of comprehensive income which requires entities to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. Additionally, these changes require an entity to present on the face of the financial statements reclassification adjustments for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the statements where the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income are presented. The option to present components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders’ equity, which is the method of presentation used by the Company, will no longer be permitted. In addition, these changes will have no impact on the calculation and presentation of earnings per share. These changes, with retrospective application, become effective for the Company for interim and annual periods beginning in fiscal year 2013, with early adoption allowed. Other than the change in presentation, these changes will not have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements. In April 2010, the FASB issued an accounting standard update related to revenue recognition under the milestone method. The objective of the accounting standard update is to provide guidance on defining a milestone and determining when it may be appropriate to apply the milestone method of revenue recognition for research or development transactions. This update became effective on a prospective basis for milestones achieved in fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after June 15, 2010. The adoption of this standard did not have a significant impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In January 2010, the FASB issued amended standards requiring additional fair value disclosures. The amended standards require disclosures of transfers in and out of Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy, as well as requiring gross basis disclosures for purchases, sales, issuances and settlements within the Level 3 reconciliation. Additionally, the update clarifies the requirement to determine the level of disaggregation for fair value measurement disclosures and to disclose valuation techniques and inputs used for both recurring and 22 nonrecurring fair value measurements in either Level 2 or Level 3. The Company adopted the new guidance in the third quarter of fiscal 2010, except for the disclosures related to purchases, sales, issuance and settlements, which will be effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Because these new standards are related primarily to disclosures, their adoption has not had and is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. In October 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2009-13, “Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements,” codified in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 605. This update provides application guidance on whether multiple deliverables exist, how the deliverables should be separated and how the consideration should be allocated to one or more units of accounting. This guidance establishes a selling price hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable. The selling price used for each deliverable will be based on vendor-specific objective evidence, if available, third-party evidence if vendor-specific objective evidence is not available, or estimated selling price if neither vendor-specific or third-party evidence is available. This update became effective on a prospective basis for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in the fiscal year beginning on or after June 15, 2010. The adoption of this standard did not have a significant impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. In June 2009, the FASB issued new guidance concerning the determination of the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity (“VIE”). This new guidance amends current U.S. GAAP by: requiring ongoing reassessments of whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary of a VIE; amending the quantitative approach previously required for determining the primary beneficiary of the VIE; modifying the guidance used to determine whether an entity is a VIE; adding an additional reconsideration event (e.g. troubled debt restructurings) for determining whether an entity is a VIE; and requiring enhanced disclosures regarding an entity’s involvement with a VIE. This new guidance became effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, with earlier adoption prohibited. The adoption of this standard did not have a significant impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 