Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A of this Annual Report Form 10-K related to our import and export compliance is incorporated herein by reference. Sources of Supply The major raw materials we use include zinc, selenium, zinc selenide, zinc sulfide, hydrogen selenide, hydrogen sulfide, tellurium, yttrium oxide, aluminum oxide, iridium, platinum, bismuth, silicon, thorium fluoride, antimony, carbon, gallium arsenide, copper, germanium, molybdenum, quartz, optical glass, diamond, and other materials. Excluding our own production, there are more than two external suppliers for all of the above materials except for ZnSe, ZnS, hydrogen selenide and thorium fluoride, for which there is only one proven source of supply outside of the Company’s capabilities. For many materials, we have entered into purchase arrangements whereby suppliers provide discounts for annual volume purchases in excess of specified amounts. The continued high-quality of and access to these materials is critical to the stability and predictability of our manufacturing yields. We conduct testing of materials at the onset of the production process. Additional research and capital investment may be needed to better define future starting material specifications. We have not experienced significant production delays due to shortages of materials. However, we do occasionally experience problems associated with vendor-supplied materials not meeting contract specifications for quality or purity. A significant failure of our suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of necessary high-quality materials on a timely basis could have a materially adverse effect on the results of our operations. Customers Our existing customer base for infrared optics including our laser component products consists of over 6,000 customers worldwide. The main groups of customers for these products are as follows: • OEM and system integrators of industrial, medical and military laser systems. Representative customers include Trumpf, Inc., Bystronic, Inc. and Rofin-Sinar Technologies. • Laser end users who require replacement optics for their existing laser systems. Representative customers include Caterpillar, Inc. and Honda of America Mfg., Inc. • Military and aerospace customers who require products for use in advanced targeting, navigation and surveillance. Representative customers include Lockheed-Martin Corporation and Northrop Grumman Corporation. For our one-micron laser products, our customers are automotive manufacturers, laser manufacturers and system integrators. Representative customers include Volkswagen Corporation and Laserline Gmbh. For our near-infrared laser-based optics and crystal products, our customers are OEMs and system integrators of solid-state lasers used in industrial, scientific, military and medical markets. Representative customers include Northrop Grumman Corporation and Raytheon Company. For our near-infrared high-volume optics, components and modules products our customers are system and sub-system integrators for telecommunications, data communications and cable TV, as well as manufacturers of commercial and consumer products such as instrumentation, fiber laser, display and projection devices. Representative customers include Huawei Technologies, Co., Ltd., Oclaro, Inc. and Corning Incorporated. For our military infrared optics products, our customers are manufacturers of equipment and devices for aerospace, defense, medical and commercial markets. Representative customers include Lockheed-Martin Corporation, Raytheon Company and various U.S. Government agencies. 13 For our materials processing and refining products, our customers are manufacturers and developers of materials for industrial applications, including the manufacturing of steel and glass, the production of animal feeds and fertilizers and the manufacturing of infrared optics, thermoelectric modules and solar cells. Representative customers include 5NPlus, Inc. and Retorte Arubis Group. For our thermoelectric products, our customers manufacture and develop equipment and devices for defense, space, telecommunications, medical, industrial, automotive, gesture recognition and commercial markets. Representative customers include Flextronics International, Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc. and Raytheon Company. For our SiC products, our customers are manufacturers and developers of equipment and devices for high-power RF electronics and high-power and high-voltage switching and power conversion systems for both the U.S. Department of Defense and commercial applications. Competition We believe that we are a significant producer of products and services in our addressed markets. In the area of infrared laser optics and materials, we believe we are an industry leader. We believe that we are an industry leader in laser material processing tools for high-power one-micron laser systems. We are a significant supplier of YAG rods and near-infrared laser optics to the worldwide markets for defense, scientific, research, medical and industrial applications. We are a leading photonics designer and integrated supplier of fiber optics, micro optics, precision optics, optical components, optical modules and photonics crystal materials for optical communications applications. We are a leading supplier of infrared optics used in complex military assemblies for targeting, navigation and thermal imaging systems to major military prime contractors. We believe we are a leading supplier of selenium and tellurium products for electronic, agricultural, photovoltaic and thermoelectric applications. We believe we are a global leader in the design and manufacturer of TEMs and thermal control assemblies. We believe we are a global leader in the manufacturing of single crystal semi-insulating SiC substrates for use in the defense and telecommunication markets, and a preferred alternative to the current leading supplier of SiC for industrial markets. We compete on the basis of product technical specifications, quality, delivery time, technical support and pricing. Management believes that we compete favorably with respect to these factors and that our vertical integration, manufacturing facilities and equipment, experienced technical and manufacturing employees and worldwide marketing and distribution provide competitive advantages. We have a number of present and potential competitors that are larger and have greater financial, selling, marketing or technical resources. Competitors producing infrared laser optics include Sumitomo Electric Industries, Ltd. and Newport Corporation. Competing producers of automated equipment and laser material processing tools to deliver high power one-micron laser systems include Optoskand AB and Precitec, Inc. Competing producers of YAG materials and optics include Northrop Grumman Corporation and CVI Melles Griot. Competing producers of optical component and optics products include O-Net Communications, OPLINK Communication and Axsun. Competing producers of infrared optics for military applications include DRS Technologies, Inc., Goodrich Corporation and in-house fabrication and thin film coating capabilities of major military customers. Competing producers of selenium and tellurium metals and other chemicals include Umicore and Vital Chemical. Competing producers of TEMs include Komatsu, Ltd., Laird Technologies and Ferrotec Corporation. Competing producers of single crystal SiC substrates include Cree, Inc., Dow Corning Corporation, Nippon Steel, Bridgestone and SiCrystal AG. In addition to competitors who manufacture products similar to those we produce, there are other technologies or materials that can compete with our products. 14 Bookings and Backlog We define our bookings as customer orders received that are expected to be converted to revenues over the next twelve months. For long-term customer orders, the Company records only those orders which are expected to be converted into revenues within twelve months from the end of the reporting period due to the inherent uncertainty of an order that far in the future. For the year ended June 30, 2012, our bookings, consisting of those bookings converted to revenues prior to year end, were approximately $535 million compared to bookings of approximately $520 million for the year ended June 30, 2011. We define our backlog as bookings that have not been converted to revenues by the end of the reporting period. Bookings are adjusted if changes in customer demands or production schedules move a delivery beyond twelve months. As of June 30, 2012, our backlog was approximately $179 million compared to approximately $176 million at June 30, 2011. Employees As of June 30, 2012, we employed 6,030 persons worldwide. Of these employees, 713 were engaged in research, development and engineering, 4,557 in direct production (of which 1,304 employees of Photop in China work under contract manufacturing arrangements for customers of the Company) and the remaining balance of the Company’s employees work in sales and marketing, administration, finance and support services. Our production staff includes highly skilled optical craftsmen. We have a long-standing practice of encouraging active employee participation in areas of operations management. We believe our relations with our employees are good. We reward our employees with incentive compensation based on achievement of performance goals. There are 125 employees located in the Philippines that are covered under a collective bargaining agreement. Trade Secrets, Patents and Trademarks We rely on our trade secrets, proprietary know-how, invention disclosures and patents to help us develop and maintain our competitive position. We have begun to aggressively pursue process and product patents in certain areas of our businesses. We have confidentiality and noncompetition agreements with certain personnel. We require that all U.S. employees sign a confidentiality and noncompetition agreement upon commencement of employment. The processes and specialized equipment utilized in crystal growth, infrared materials fabrication and infrared optical coatings as developed by us are complex and difficult to duplicate. However, there can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology or that all aspects of our proprietary technology will be protected. Others have obtained patents covering a variety of infrared optical configurations and processes, and others could obtain patents covering technology similar to our technology. We may be required to obtain licenses under such patents, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain such licenses, if required, on commercially reasonable terms, or that claims regarding rights to technology will not be asserted which may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our research and development contracts with agencies of the U.S. Government present a risk that project-specific technology could be disclosed to competitors as contract reporting requirements are fulfilled. We currently hold registered tradenames and trademarks including the following representative listing: “II-VI Incorporated(TM)” tradename “Infraready Optics(TM)” tradename “MP-5(TM)” tradename “Marlow Industries, Inc. (TM)” tradename and trademark “Photop Technologies, Inc. (TM)” tradename “VLOC Incorporated(TM)” trademark “Aegis Lightwave, Inc.(TM)” trademark 15 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company cautions investors that its performance and, therefore, any forward-looking statement is subject to risks and uncertainties. Various important factors including, but not limited to, the following may cause the Company’s future results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. You should carefully consider these factors, as well as the other information contained in this document when evaluating your investment in our securities. General Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Business, Operating Results and Financial Condition Current and future conditions in the economy have an inherent degree of uncertainty. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole. It is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts, sectors and regions of the economy, including industrial, military, telecommunication, photovoltaic and medical markets in which we participate. Because all components of our forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth or contraction in the markets we serve and demand for our products, the prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures very difficult to make. In addition, changes in general economic conditions may affect industries in which our customers operate. These changes could include decreases in the rate of consumption or use of our customers’ products due to economic downturn. These conditions may have a material adverse effect on demand for our customers’ product and, in turn, on demand for our products. Adverse changes may occur in the future as a result of declining or flat global or regional economic conditions, fluctuations in currency and commodity prices, wavering confidence, capital expenditure reductions, unemployment, decline in stock markets, contraction of credit availability or other factors affecting economic conditions generally. For example, factors that may affect our operating results include disruptions to the credit and financial markets in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere; adverse effects of the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in Europe; contractions or limited growth in consumer spending or consumer credit; and adverse economic conditions that may be specific to the Internet, e-commerce and payments industries. These changes may negatively affect sales of products, increase exposure to losses from bad debt and commodity prices, and increase the cost and availability of financing and increase costs associated with manufacturing and distributing products. Any economic downturn or the failure to sustain the recent recovery from the global economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our Future Success Depends on International Sales and Management of Global Operations Sales to customers in countries other than the U.S. accounted for approximately 60%, 59% and 49% of revenues during the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. In addition, we manufacture products in China, Singapore, Vietnam, the Philippines, Germany and Australia and maintain direct sales offices in Japan, Germany, Switzerland, the U.K., Belgium, China, Singapore and Italy. Sales and operations outside of the U.S. are subject to certain inherent risks, including fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies, the current global economic uncertainties, tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers, political and economic instability, restrictions on the export or import of technology, potentially limited intellectual property protection, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations and potentially adverse tax consequences. There can be no assurance that any of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In particular, currency exchange fluctuations in countries where we do business in the local currency could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations or financial condition by rendering us less price-competitive than foreign manufacturers. Our sales in Japan are denominated in Yen and, accordingly, are affected by fluctuations in the U.S. dollar/Yen currency exchange rates. We generally reduce our exposure to such fluctuations of the Yen through forward exchange agreements which target to hedge approximately 75% of our sales in Japan. We do not engage in the speculative trading of financial derivatives. There can be no assurance, however, that our practices will reduce or eliminate the risk of fluctuation of the U.S. dollar/Japanese Yen exchange rate. 16 Commodity Prices May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in commodity prices. Our businesses purchase, produce and sell high purity tellurium, selenium and other raw materials based upon quoted market prices from minor metal exchanges. As a result, the negative impact from changes in commodity prices such as the recent decline in global tellurium and selenium prices, which may not be recovered in our product sales, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In the event that the global index price of tellurium or selenium experiences a further decline from its current level, the Company would be required to record an additional write-down of its tellurium or selenium inventory in future periods. Continued U.S. Budget Deficits Could Result in Significant Defense Spending Cuts Specific to the military business within our Infrared Optics, Near-Infrared Optics and Military & Materials segments, sales to customers in the defense industry totaled approximately 20% of revenues in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012. These customers in turn generally contract with a governmental entity, typically a U.S. governmental agency. Continued record U.S. Federal budget deficits could result in significant pressure to reduce defense spending, which could result in delays and/or cancellations of major programs. Most governmental programs are subject to funding approval and can be modified or terminated with no warning upon the determination of a legislative or administrative body. The loss of or failure to obtain certain contracts or the loss of a major government customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. A Significant Portion of Our Business is Dependent on Other Cyclical Industries Our business is significantly dependent on the demand for products produced by end-users of industrial lasers and optical communication products. Many of these end-users are in industries that have historically experienced a highly cyclical demand for their products. As a result, demand for our products is subject to cyclical fluctuations. This cyclical demand could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. There Are Limitations on the Protection of Our Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyright and trademark laws combined with employee noncompetition and nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or intellectual property. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that third-parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future. Asserting our intellectual property rights or defending against third-party claims could involve substantial expense, thus materially and adversely affecting our business, results of operations or financial condition. In the event a third-party were successful in a claim that one of our processes infringed its proprietary rights, we could be required to pay substantial damages or royalties, or expend substantial amounts in order to obtain a license or modify processes so that they no longer infringe such proprietary rights, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We Depend on Highly Complex Manufacturing Processes Which Require Products from Limited Sources of Supply We utilize high-quality, optical grade ZnSe in the production of many of our infrared optical products. We are the leading producer of ZnSe for our internal use and for external sale. The production of ZnSe is a complex process requiring a highly controlled environment. A number of factors, including defective or contaminated materials, could adversely affect our ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields of high quality ZnSe. ZnSe is available from only one significant outside source whose quantities and quality of ZnSe may be limited. 17 Lack of adequate availability of high quality ZnSe would have a material adverse effect upon us. There can be no assurance that we will not experience manufacturing yield inefficiencies which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We produce Hydrogen Selenide gas which is used in our production of ZnSe. There are risks inherent in the production and handling of such material. Our lack of proper handling of Hydrogen Selenide could require us to curtail our production of Hydrogen Selenide. Hydrogen Selenide is available from only one outside source whose quantities and quality may be limited. The cost of purchasing such material is greater than the cost of internal production. As a result, the purchase of a substantial portion of such material from the outside source would increase our ZnSe production costs. Therefore, an inability to internally produce Hydrogen Selenide could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, we produce and utilize other high purity and relatively uncommon materials and compounds to manufacture our products including, but not limited to ZnS, YAG, YLF, CaF2, Ge, Se, Te, Bi2Te3 and SiC. A significant failure of our internal production processes or our suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of these necessary materials on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We May Expand Product Lines and Markets by Acquiring Other Businesses Our business strategy includes expanding our product lines and markets through internal product development and acquisitions. Any acquisition could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and amortization expense related to intangible assets acquired, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, acquired businesses may experience operating losses as of, and subsequent to, the acquisition date. Any acquisition will involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired company’s operations and products, uncertainties associated with operating in new markets and working with new customers and the potential loss of the acquired company’s key personnel. The following information relates to significant acquisitions made during the periods presented in this Annual Report on Form 10K. Acquired Party Year Acquired Business Segments PercentageOwnershipas ofJune 30, 2012 Aegis Lightwave Inc. Fiscal 2012 Near-Infrared Optics 100 % Max Levy Autograph Inc. Fiscal 2011 Military & Materials 100 % Photop Technologies, Inc. Fiscal 2010 Near-Infrared Optics 100 % Some Systems Are Complex in Design and May Contain Defects that Are Not Detected Until Deployed Which Could Increase Our Costs and Reduce Our Revenues Some systems that utilize our products are inherently complex in design and require ongoing maintenance. As a result of the technical complexity of our products, changes in our or our suppliers’ manufacturing processes or the use of defective or contaminated materials by us or our suppliers could result in a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields and product reliability. To the extent that we do not achieve acceptable yields or product reliability, our business, results of operation, financial condition or customer relationships could be materially adversely affected. Our customers may discover defects in our products after the products have been fully deployed and operated under peak stress conditions. In addition, some of our products are combined with products from other vendors, which may contain defects. Should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. If 18 we are unable to fix defects or other problems, we could experience, among other things: loss of customers; increased costs of product returns and warranty expenses; damage to our brand reputation; failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; diversion of development and engineering resources; or legal action by our customers. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We May Encounter Substantial Competition We may encounter substantial competition from other companies in the same market, including established companies with significant resources. Some of our competitors may have financial, technical, marketing or other capabilities more extensive than ours and may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and other competitive pressures. We may not be able to compete successfully against our present or future competitors, and competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The Market Price of Our Common Stock and the Stock Market in General Can Be Highly Volatile Factors that could cause fluctuation in our stock price include, among other things: general economic and market conditions; actual or anticipated variations in operating results; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; our inability to meet or exceed securities analysts’ estimates or expectations; conditions or trends in the industries in which our products are purchased; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, divestitures, joint ventures or other strategic initiatives; capital commitments; additions or departures of key personnel; and sales of our Common Stock. Many of these factors are beyond our control. These factors could cause the market price of our Common Stock to decline, regardless of our operating performance. Our Success Depends on Our Ability to Retain Key Personnel We are highly dependent upon the experience and continuing services of certain scientists, engineers, production and management personnel. Competition for the services of these personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain or attract the personnel necessary for our success. The loss of the services of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our Success Depends on New Products and Processes In order to meet our strategic objectives, we must continue to develop, manufacture and market new products, develop new processes and improve existing processes. As a result, we expect to continue to make significant investments in research and development and to continue to consider from time to time the strategic acquisition of businesses, products or technologies complementary to our business. Our success in developing, introducing and selling new and enhanced products depends upon a variety of factors including product selection, timely and efficient completion of product design and development, timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes, effective sales and marketing and product performance in the field. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and introduce new products or enhancements to our existing products and processes in a manner which satisfies customer needs or achieves market acceptance. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. Keeping Pace with Key Industry Developments is Essential We are engaged in industries which will be affected by future developments. The introduction of products or processes utilizing new developments could render existing products or processes obsolete or unmarketable. Our continued success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce on a timely and cost-effective basis new 19 products, processes and applications that keep pace with developments and address increasingly sophisticated customer requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, developing and marketing new products, applications and processes and that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of product or process enhancements or new products, applications or processes, or that our products, applications or processes will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if we were to incur delays in developing new products, applications or processes or if we do not gain market acceptance for the same. Changes in Tax Rates, Tax Liabilities or Tax Accounting Rules Could Affect Future Results As a global company, we are subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries and jurisdictions. As such, judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. Our future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates or changes in tax laws. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate. For example, proposals for fundamental U.S. international tax reform, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. In addition, we are subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provision and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operation or financial condition. Declines in the Operating Performance of One of Our Business Segments Could Result in an Impairment of the Segment’s Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets As of June 30, 2012, we had goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets of approximately $80.7 million and $11.7 million, respectively, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We test our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or when an indication of possible impairment exists in order to determine whether the carrying value of our assets is still supported by the fair value of the underlying business. To the extent that it is not, we are required to record an impairment charge to reduce the asset to fair value. A decline in the operating performance of any of our business segments could result in an impairment charge which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Provisions in Our Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws May Limit the Price that Investors May be Willing to Pay in the Future for Shares of Our Common Stock Our articles of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions which could make us a less attractive target for a hostile takeover or make more difficult or discourage a merger proposal, a tender offer or a proxy contest. Such provisions include: classification of the board of directors into three classes; a procedure which requires shareholders or the board of directors to nominate directors in advance of a meeting to elect such directors; the ability of the board of directors to issue additional shares of Common Stock or preferred stock without shareholder approval; and certain provisions requiring supermajority approval (at least two-thirds of the votes cast by all shareholders entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class). In addition, the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law contains provisions which may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. All of these provisions may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay for shares of our Common Stock. We Are Subject to Stringent Environmental Regulation We use or generate certain hazardous substances in our research and manufacturing facilities. We believe that our handling of such substances is in material compliance with applicable local, state and federal environmental, safety and health regulations at each operating location. We invest substantially in proper protective equipment, 20 process controls and specialized training to minimize risks to employees, surrounding communities and the environment resulting from the presence and handling of such hazardous substances. We regularly conduct employee physical examinations and workplace monitoring regarding such substances. When exposure problems or potential exposure problems have been uncovered, corrective actions have been implemented and re-occurrence has been minimal or non-existent. We do not carry environmental impairment insurance. Relative to the generation and use of the hazardous substance Hydrogen Selenide, we have in place an emergency response plan. Special attention has been given to all procedures pertaining to this gaseous material to minimize the chances of its accidental release into the atmosphere. With respect to the manufacturing, use, storage and disposal of the low-level radioactive material Thorium Fluoride, our facilities and procedures have been inspected and licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Thorium-bearing by-products are collected and shipped as solid waste to a government-approved low-level radioactive waste disposal site in Clive, Utah. The generation, use, collection, storage and disposal of all other hazardous by-products, such as suspended solids containing heavy metals or airborne particulates, are believed by us to be in material compliance with regulations. We believe that we have obtained all of the permits and licenses required for operation of our business. Although we do not know of any material environmental, safety or health problems in our properties or processes, there can be no assurance that problems will not develop in the future which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We Are Subject to Governmental Regulation We are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and non-U.S. governmental entities and other entities at the federal, state and local levels, including, but not limited to, the following: – We are required to comply with various import laws and export control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons, including in certain cases dealings with or between our employees and subsidiaries. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. Compliance with the various import laws that apply to our businesses can restrict our access to, and increase the cost of obtaining, certain products and at times can interrupt our supply of imported inventory. – Exported technology necessary to develop and manufacture certain of the Company’s products are subject to U.S. export control laws and similar laws of other jurisdictions, and the Company may be subject to adverse regulatory consequences, including government oversight of facilities and export transactions, monetary penalties and other sanctions for violations of these laws. In many cases, exports of technology necessary to develop and manufacture the Company’s products are subject to U.S. export control laws. In certain instances, these regulations may prohibit the Company from developing or manufacturing certain of its products for specific end applications outside the United States. – Our agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities may be subject to termination, reduction or modification in the event of changes in government requirements, reductions in federal spending and other factors. We are also subject to investigation and audit for compliance with the requirements of government contracts, including requirements related to procurement integrity, export control, employment practices, the accuracy of records and the recording of costs. A failure to comply with these requirements might result in suspension of these contracts and suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting. 21 In addition, failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services and damage to our reputation. Natural Disasters or Other Global or Regional Catastrophic Events Could Disrupt Our Operations and Adversely Affect Results Despite our concerted effort to minimize risk to our production capabilities and corporate information systems and to reduce the effect of unforeseen interruptions to us through business continuity planning, we still may be exposed to interruptions due to catastrophe, natural disaster, pandemic, terrorism or acts of war, which are beyond our control, such as the March 2011 earthquake in Japan or the October 2011 flooding in Thailand. Disruptions to our facilities or systems, or to those of our key suppliers, could also interrupt operational processes and adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products and provide services and support to our customers. As a result, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We Rely on Stable Information and Communication Technologies and Outages or Control Breakdowns Could Disrupt our Operations and Impact Our Financial Results. We have in place a number of controls, processes and practices designed to protect against intentional or unintentional misappropriation or corruption of our networks, systems and information or disruption of our operations due to a cyber incident. Despite such efforts, we could be subject to service outages or breaches of security systems which may result in disruption, unauthorized access, misappropriation, or corruption of the information we are trying to protect. Security breaches of our network or data including physical or electronic break-ins, vendor service outages, computer viruses, attacks by hackers or similar breeches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If we are unable to prevent such security or privacy breaches, our operations could be disrupted or we may suffer loss of reputation, financial loss, property damage, or regulatory penalties because of lost or misappropriated information. Recently Issued Financial Accounting Standards In July 2012, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an accounting standard update related to impairment testing of indefinite-lived intangible assets. The update simplifies the guidance for testing the decline in the realizable value (impairment) of indefinite-lived intangible assets other than goodwill. The amendment allows entities the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test. An entity electing to perform a qualitative assessment is no longer required to calculate the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset unless the organization determines, based on a qualitative assessment, that it is “more likely than not” that the asset is impaired. The amendments in this update are effective for annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012. Early adoption is permitted. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. In September 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standard update related to goodwill impairment testing. The objective of the accounting standard update is to simplify how entities test goodwill for impairment by permitting an assessment of qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not (that is, a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. This update also allows entities an unconditional option to bypass this qualitative assessment and proceed directly to performing the first step of the goodwill impairment test. An entity may resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. This accounting standard update is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 22 In June 2011, the FASB issued changes to the presentation of comprehensive income which requires entities to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. The option to present components of other comprehensive income solely as part of the statement of changes in stockholders’ equity will no longer be permitted. These changes will have no impact on the calculation and presentation of earnings per share. This guidance, with retrospective application, becomes effective for the Company for interim and annual periods beginning in fiscal year 2013. Other than the change in presentation, these changes are not expected to have an impact on the consolidated financial statements. In May 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standard update on fair value measurement and disclosure requirements. The update amends certain fair value measurement guidance and expands disclosure requirements primarily for fair value measurements utilizing significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) and items not measured at fair value but for which fair value must be disclosed. This update became effective for the Company for interim and annual reporting periods beginning in the third quarter of fiscal year 2012. The adoption of this standard did not have a significant impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. In January 2010, the FASB issued amended standards requiring additional fair value disclosures. The amended standards require disclosures of transfers in and out of Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy, as well as requiring gross basis disclosures for purchases, sales, issuances and settlements within the Level 3 reconciliation. Additionally, the update clarifies the requirement to determine the level of disaggregation for fair value measurement disclosures and to disclose valuation techniques and inputs used for both recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements in either Level 2 or Level 3. The Company adopted the new guidance in the third quarter of fiscal 2010, except for the disclosures related to purchases, sales, issuance and settlements, which was effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Because these new standards are related primarily to disclosures, their adoption has not had and is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 