ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company cautions investors that its performance and, therefore, any forward-looking statement is subject to risks and uncertainties. Various important factors including, but not limited to, the following may cause the Company’s future results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. General Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Business, Operating Results and Financial Condition Current and future conditions in the economy have an inherent degree of uncertainty. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole. It is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts, sectors and regions of the economy, including industrial, military, medical and telecommunication markets in which we participate. Because all components of our forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth or contraction in the markets we serve and demand for our products, the prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures very difficult to make. In addition, changes in general economic conditions may affect industries in which our customers operate. These changes could include decreases in the rate of consumption or use of our customers’ products due to economic downturn. These conditions may have a material adverse effect on demand for our customers’ product and, in turn, on demand for our products. Adverse changes have occurred and, although we have experienced improvements in worldwide markets and customers’ demand in the second half of fiscal year 2010, may reoccur in the future as a result of declining or flat global or regional economic conditions, fluctuations in currency and commodity prices, wavering confidence, capital expenditure reductions, unemployment, decline in stock markets, contraction of credit availability or other factors affecting economic conditions generally. These changes may negatively affect sales of products, increase exposure to losses from bad debt, increase the cost and availability of financing and increase costs associated with manufacturing and distributing products. Any economic downturn or the failure to sustain the recent recovery from the global economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our Future Success Depends on International Sales and Management of Global Operations Sales to customers in countries other than the U.S. accounted for approximately 49%, 44% and 47% of revenues during the years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. In addition, we manufacture products in Singapore, China, Vietnam, the Philippines and Germany and maintain direct sales offices in Germany, Japan, Switzerland, the U.K., Belgium, Singapore, China and Italy. Sales and operations outside of the U.S. are subject to certain inherent risks, including fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies, the current global economic downturn, tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers, political and economic instability, restrictions on the export or import of technology, potentially limited intellectual property protection, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations and potentially adverse tax consequences. There can be no assurance that any of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In particular, currency exchange fluctuations in countries where we do business in the local currency could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations or financial condition by rendering us less price-competitive than foreign manufacturers. Our sales in Japan are denominated in Yen and, accordingly, are affected by fluctuations in the dollar/Yen currency exchange rates. We generally reduce our exposure to such fluctuations of the Yen through forward exchange agreements which target to hedge approximately 75% of our sales in Japan. We do not engage in the speculative trading of financial derivatives. There can be no assurance, however, that our practices will reduce or eliminate the risk of fluctuation of the U.S. dollar/Japanese Yen exchange rate. 15 There Are Limitations on the Protection of Our Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyright and trademark laws combined with employee noncompetition and nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or intellectual property. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that third-parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future. Asserting our intellectual property rights or defending against third-party claims could involve substantial expense, thus materially and adversely affecting our business, results of operations or financial condition. In the event a third-party were successful in a claim that one of our processes infringed its proprietary rights, we could be required to pay substantial damages or royalties, or expend substantial amounts in order to obtain a license or modify processes so that they no longer infringe such proprietary rights, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We Depend on Highly Complex Manufacturing Processes Which Require Products from Limited Sources of Supply We utilize high-quality, optical grade ZnSe in the production of many of our infrared optical products. We are the leading producer of ZnSe for our internal use and for external sale. The production of ZnSe is a complex process requiring a highly controlled environment. A number of factors, including defective or contaminated materials, could adversely affect our ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields of high quality ZnSe. ZnSe is available from only one significant outside source whose quantities and quality of ZnSe may be limited. Lack of adequate availability of high quality ZnSe would have a material adverse effect upon us. There can be no assurance that we will not experience manufacturing yield inefficiencies which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We produce Hydrogen Selenide gas which is used in our production of ZnSe. There are risks inherent in the production and handling of such material. Our lack of proper handling of Hydrogen Selenide could require us to curtail our production of Hydrogen Selenide. Hydrogen Selenide is available from only one outside source whose quantities and quality may be limited. The cost of purchasing such material is greater than the cost of internal production. As a result, the purchase of a substantial portion of such material from the outside source would increase our ZnSe production costs. Therefore, an inability to internally produce Hydrogen Selenide could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, we produce and utilize other high purity and relatively uncommon materials and compounds to manufacture our products including, but not limited to ZnS, YAG, YLF, CaF2, KNS, V, Ge, Se, Te, Bi2Te 3 and SiC. A significant failure of our internal production processes or our suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of these necessary materials on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Commodity Prices May Adversely Affect our Results of Operations and Financial Condition We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in commodity prices. Our PRM business purchases, produces and sells high purity Te, Se and other raw materials based upon quoted market prices from minor metal exchanges. As a result, changes in commodity prices which may not be recovered in our product sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We May Expand Product Lines and Markets by Acquiring Other Businesses Our business strategy includes expanding our product lines and markets through internal product development and acquisitions. Any acquisition could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and amortization expense related to intangible assets acquired, 16 any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, acquired businesses may be experiencing operating losses. Any acquisition will involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired company’s operations and products, uncertainties associated with operating in new markets and working with new customers and the potential loss of the acquired company’s key personnel. The following information relates to significant acquisitions made since June 30, 2000. Acquired Party Year Acquired Business Segments PercentageOwnershipas ofJune 30, 2010 Laser Power Corporation Fiscal 2001 Military & Materials and Infrared Optics 100 % Silicon Carbide Group of Litton Systems, Inc. Fiscal 2002 Compound Semiconductor Group 100 % II-VI Deutschland GmbH Fiscal 2003 and2006 Infrared Optics and Near-Infrared Optics 100 % II-VI Suisse S.a.r.l. Fiscal 2004 and2007 Infrared Optics 100 % Ultra-violet Filter Product Line of Coherent, Inc. Fiscal 2004 Near-Infrared Optics 100 % Marlow Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2005 Compound Semiconductor Group 100 % Pacific Rare Specialty Metals & Chemicals, Inc. Fiscal 2007 Military & Materials 98 % HIGHYAG Lasertechnologie GmbH Fiscal 2008 Infrared Optics 75 % Photop Technologies, Inc. Fiscal 2010 Near-Infrared Optics 100 % Exposure to Government Markets With our acquisition of Marlow and the increase in the military portion of our Infrared and Near-Infrared Optics businesses, as well as our continued Military Infrared Optics business, sales to customers in the defense industry have increased and totaled approximately 30% of revenues in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. These customers in turn generally contract with a governmental entity, typically a U.S. governmental agency. Most governmental programs are subject to funding approval and can be modified or terminated with no warning upon the determination of a legislative or administrative body. The loss or failure to obtain certain contracts or the loss of a major government customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Some Systems Are Complex in Design and May Contain Defects that Are Not Detected Until Deployed Which Could Increase Our Costs and Reduce Our Revenues Some systems that utilize our products are inherently complex in design and require ongoing maintenance. As a result of the technical complexity of our products, changes in our or our suppliers’ manufacturing processes or in the use of defective or contaminated materials by us or our suppliers could result in a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields and product reliability. To the extent that we do not achieve acceptable yields or product reliability, our business, results of operation, financial condition or customer relationships could be materially adversely affected. Our customers may discover defects in our products after the products have been fully deployed and operated under peak stress conditions. In addition, some of our products are combined with products from other vendors, which may contain defects. Should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. If we are unable to fix defects or other problems, we could experience, among other things: loss of 17 customers; increased costs of product returns and warranty expenses; damage to our brand reputation; failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; diversion of development and engineering resources; or legal action by our customers. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We May Encounter Substantial Competition We may encounter substantial competition from other companies in the same market, including established companies with significant resources. Some of our competitors may have financial, technical, marketing or other capabilities more extensive than ours and may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and other competitive pressures. We may not be able to compete successfully against our present or future competitors, and competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The Market Price of Our Common Stock Can Be Highly Volatile as the Stock Market in General Can Be Highly Volatile Factors that could cause fluctuation in the stock price include, among other things, general economic and market conditions; actual or anticipated variations in operating results; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; our inability to meet or exceed securities analysts’ estimates or expectations; conditions or trends in the industries in which our products are purchased; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, divestitures, joint ventures or other strategic initiatives; capital commitments; additions or departures of key personnel; and sales of Common Stock. Many of these factors are beyond our control. These factors could cause the market price of our Common Stock to decline, regardless of our operating performance. Our Success Depends on Our Ability to Retain Key Personnel We are highly dependent upon the experience and continuing services of certain scientists, engineers, production and management personnel. Competition for the services of these personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain or attract the personnel necessary for our success. The loss of the services of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. A Significant Portion of Our Business is Dependent on Other Cyclical Industries Our business is significantly dependent on the demand for products produced by end-users of industrial lasers. Many of these end-users are in industries that historically have experienced a highly cyclical demand for their products. As a result, demand for our products is subject to cyclical fluctuations. This cyclical demand could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our Success Depends on New Products and Processes In order to meet our strategic objectives, we must continue to develop, manufacture and market new products, develop new processes and improve existing processes. As a result, we expect to continue to make significant investments in research and development and to continue to consider from time to time the strategic acquisition of businesses, products or technologies complementary to our business. Our success in developing, introducing and selling new and enhanced products depends upon a variety of factors including product selection, timely and efficient completion of product design and development, timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes, effective sales and marketing and product performance in the field. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and introduce new products or enhancements to our existing 18 products and processes in a manner which satisfies customer needs or achieves market acceptance. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. Keeping Pace with Key Industry Developments is Essential We are engaged in industries which will be affected by future developments. The introduction of products or processes utilizing new developments could render existing products or processes obsolete or unmarketable. Our continued success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce on a timely and cost-effective basis new products, processes and applications that keep pace with developments and address increasingly sophisticated customer requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, developing and marketing new products, applications and processes and that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of product or process enhancements or new products, applications or processes, or that our products, applications or processes will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if we were to incur delays in developing new products, applications or processes or if we do not gain market acceptance for the same. Changes in Tax Rates, Tax Liabilities or Tax Accounting Rules Could Affect Future Results As a global company, we are subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries and jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. Our future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates or changes in tax laws. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate. For example, proposals for fundamental U.S. international tax reform, such as the recent proposals by President Obama’s administration, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. In addition, we are subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provision and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operation or financial condition. Declines in the Operating Performance of one of Our Business Segments Could Result in an Impairment of the Segment’s Goodwill As of June 30, 2010, we had goodwill of approximately $56.1 million on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We test our goodwill on an annual basis or when an indication of possible impairment exists in order to determine whether the carrying value of our assets is still supported by the fair value of the underlying business. To the extent that it is not, we are required to record an impairment charge to reduce the asset to fair value. A decline in the operating performance of any of our business segments could result in a goodwill impairment charge which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws May Limit the Price that Investors May be Willing to Pay in the Future for Shares of Our Common Stock Our articles of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions which could make us a less attractive target for a hostile takeover or make more difficult or discourage a merger proposal, a tender offer or a proxy contest. Such provisions include: classification of the board of directors into three classes; a procedure which requires shareholders or the board of directors to nominate directors in advance of a meeting to elect such directors; the ability of the board of directors to issue additional shares of Common Stock or preferred stock without shareholder approval; and certain provisions requiring supermajority approval (at least two-thirds of the votes cast by all shareholders entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class). In addition, the Pennsylvania 19 Business Corporation Law contains provisions which may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control. All of these provisions may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay for shares of our Common Stock. We Are Subject to Stringent Environmental Regulation We use or generate certain hazardous substances in our research and manufacturing facilities. We believe that our handling of such substances is in material compliance with applicable local, state and federal environmental, safety and health regulations at each operating location. We invest substantially in proper protective equipment, process controls and specialized training to minimize risks to employees, surrounding communities and the environment resulting from the presence and handling of such hazardous substances. We regularly conduct employee physical examinations and workplace monitoring regarding such substances. When exposure problems or potential exposure problems have been uncovered, corrective actions have been implemented and re-occurrence has been minimal or non-existent. We do not carry environmental impairment insurance. Relative to the generation and use of the hazardous substance Hydrogen Selenide, we have in place an emergency response plan. Special attention has been given to all procedures pertaining to this gaseous material to minimize the chances of its accidental release into the atmosphere. With respect to the manufacturing, use, storage and disposal of the low-level radioactive material Thorium Fluoride, our facilities and procedures have been inspected and licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Thorium-bearing by-products are collected and shipped as solid waste to a government-approved low-level radioactive waste disposal site in Clive, Utah. The generation, use, collection, storage and disposal of all other hazardous by-products, such as suspended solids containing heavy metals or airborne particulates, are believed by us to be in material compliance with regulations. We believe that we have obtained all of the permits and licenses required for operation of our business. Although we do not know of any material environmental, safety or health problems in our properties or processes, there can be no assurance that problems will not develop in the future which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Natural Disasters or Other Global or Regional Catastrophic Events Could Disrupt Our Operations and Adversely Affect Results Despite our concerted effort to minimize risk to our production capabilities and corporate information systems and to reduce the effect of unforeseen interruptions to us through business continuity planning, we still may be exposed to interruptions due to catastrophe, natural disaster, pandemic, terrorism or acts of war, which are beyond our control. Disruptions to our facilities or systems, or to those of our key suppliers, could also interrupt operational processes and adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products and provide services and support to our customers. As a result, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Recently Issued Financial Accounting Standards The Company adopted new U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) guidance related to business combinations beginning in its first quarter of fiscal 2010. Under the new guidance, an entity is required to recognize the assets acquired, liabilities assumed, contractual contingencies, and contingent consideration at their fair value on the acquisition date. It further requires that acquisition-related costs be recognized separately from the acquisition and expensed as incurred; that restructuring costs generally be expensed in periods 20 subsequent to the acquisition date; and that changes in accounting for deferred tax asset valuation allowances and acquired income tax uncertainties after the measurement period be recognized as a component of the provision for income taxes. In addition, acquired in-process research and development is capitalized as an intangible asset and tested for impairment in a manner consistent with goodwill. The Company adopted new U.S. GAAP guidance related to non-controlling interests in consolidated financial statements beginning in its first quarter of fiscal 2010. The Company’s adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on its consolidated financial statements. The provision of these standards was applied prospectively, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements, which were applied retrospectively to all periods presented. The guidance revises accounting and reporting standards for the non-controlling interest in a subsidiary and the accounting for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. It also clarifies that changes in a parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that does not result in deconsolidation are equity transactions if the parent retains its controlling financial interest and requires that a parent recognize a gain or loss in net income when a subsidiary is deconsolidated. The gain or loss is measured using the fair value of the non-controlling equity investment on the deconsolidation date. The guidance also requires expanded disclosures regarding the interest of the parent and the non-controlling interest. In January 2010, the FASB issued amended standards requiring additional fair value disclosures. The amended standards require disclosures of transfers in and out of Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy, as well as requiring gross basis disclosures for purchases, sales, issuances and settlements within the Level 3 reconciliation. Additionally, the update clarifies the requirement to determine the level of disaggregation for fair value measurement disclosures and to disclose valuation techniques and inputs used for both recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements in either Level 2 or Level 3. The Company adopted the new guidance in the third quarter of fiscal 2010, except for the disclosures related to purchases, sales, issuance and settlements, which will be effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Because these new standards are related primarily to disclosures, their adoption has not had and is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. In October 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2009-13, “Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements,” codified in ASC Topic 605. This update provides application guidance on whether multiple deliverables exist, how the deliverables should be separated and how the consideration should be allocated to one or more units of accounting. This guidance establishes a selling price hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable. The selling price used for each deliverable will be based on vendor-specific objective evidence, if available, third-party evidence if vendor-specific objective evidence is not available, or estimated selling price if neither vendor-specific or third-party evidence is available. The Company will be required to apply this guidance prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in the fiscal year beginning on or after June 15, 2010. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that adoption of this guidance will have on the determination or reporting of the company’s financial results for fiscal 2011 and prospectively. In June 2009, the FASB issued new guidance concerning the determination of the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity (“VIE”). This new guidance amends current U.S. GAAP by: requiring ongoing reassessments of whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary of a VIE; amending the quantitative approach previously required for determining the primary beneficiary of the VIE; modifying the guidance used to determine whether an entity is a VIE; adding an additional reconsideration event (e.g. troubled debt restructurings) for determining whether an entity is a VIE; and requiring enhanced disclosures regarding an entity’s involvement with a VIE. This new guidance will be effective for the Company beginning in its first quarter of fiscal 2011, with earlier adoption prohibited. The Company does not expect the impact of this new guidance to be material to its consolidated financial statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 