Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A of this Form 10-K related to our foreign operations which are incorporated herein by reference. General Description of Business We develop, manufacture and market high-technology materials and derivative precision components and products for precision use in industrial, medical, military, security and aerospace applications. We use advanced engineered material growth technologies coupled with proprietary high-precision fabrication, micro-assembly, thin-film coating production processes and electronic integration to enable complex optoelectronic devices and modules. Our products are supplied to manufacturers and users in a wide variety of markets including industrial, defense, medical and telecommunications and are deployed in applications that we believe improve the cost and performance of laser cutting, welding and marking operations; reduce the cost and improve the reliability of medical procedures; reduce the cost and improve the reliability of sensors that enhance the safety and effectiveness of the armed forces of the United States (U.S.) and its allies; and reduce the cost and improve the performance of cooling and power generation solutions. A key strategy is to develop, refine and manufacture complex materials from the periodic table of elements. We focus on providing critical components to the heart of our customers’ assembly lines for products such as high-power laser material processing systems, military fire control and missile guidance devices, advanced medical and security scanning systems, fiber optics and wireless communication systems, medical diagnostic systems, and various industrial, commercial and consumer thermal management solutions. We develop, manufacture and market infrared and near-infrared laser optical elements, military infrared optical components, thermo-electric cooling and power generation solutions, single crystal silicon carbide (SiC) substrates and x-ray and gamma-ray sensors. 2 Our U.S. production operations are located in Pennsylvania, Florida, California, New Jersey, Texas and Mississippi and our non-United States production operations are based in Singapore, China, Vietnam and the Philippines. In addition to sales offices at most of our manufacturing sites, we have sales and marketing subsidiaries in Germany, Japan, China, Switzerland, Belgium and the United Kingdom (U.K.). Approximately 42% of our revenues are from product sales to customers outside of the U.S. Our primary products are as follows: • Laser-related products for CO2 lasers, forward-looking infrared systems and high precision optical elements used to focus and direct lasers onto target work surfaces. The majority of our laser products require advanced optical materials that are internally produced. We believe our vertical integration from material growth through fabrication, diamond turning and thin-film coating provides us with a significant competitive advantage. • Laser-related products for solid-state lasers and high precision optical elements used to focus and direct laser beams onto target work surfaces. The majority of our laser products require advanced optical materials that are internally produced. We believe our vertical integration from material growth through fabrication, thin-film coating and assembly provides us with a significant competitive advantage. • Military infrared products including optics for targeting and navigation systems that utilize advanced optical materials. We believe the vertical integration of our manufacturing processes for these military applications provides us with a significant competitive advantage. • Thermo-electric coolers and systems based on highly engineered semiconductor materials that provide reliable and low cost temperature control. • SiC substrates, which are wide bandgap semiconductor materials that offer high-temperature, high-power and high-frequency capabilities. • X-ray and gamma-ray sensors based on the semiconductor material Cadmium Zinc Telluride (CdZnTe). These sensors are attractive to customers due to increased performance, reduced size, improved ruggedness and lower voltage requirements as compared to traditional technologies. Our Markets Our market-focused businesses are organized by technology and products. Our business is comprised of the following primary markets: 1) Design, manufacture and marketing of optical and electro-optical components and materials for infrared optics for industrial, medical and military applications by our Infrared Optics operations. 2) Design, manufacture and marketing of ultra-violet, visible and near-infrared laser products for industrial, military, scientific and medical instruments, including laser gain materials and products for solid-state Yttrium Aluminum Garnet (YAG) and Yttrium Lithium Fluoride (YLF) lasers by our Near-Infrared Optics operations. 3) Design, manufacture and marketing of infrared products for military applications by our Military Infrared Optics operations. 4) Design, manufacture and marketing of thermo-electric-cooling and power-generation solutions for use in defense, telecommunications, medical, consumer and industrial markets serviced by our Compound Semiconductor Group’s Marlow Industries, Inc. operations. 5) Design, manufacture and marketing of single crystal SiC substrates for use in defense and space, telecommunications, and industrial markets by our Compound Semiconductor Group’s Wide Bandgap Group (WBG) operations. 3 6) Design, manufacture and marketing of x-ray and gamma-ray solid-state radiation sensors and components for defense, space, medical, and industrial markets serviced by our Compound Semiconductor Group’s eV PRODUCTS division operations. Infrared Optics Market. Over the last few years, significant increases in the installed worldwide base of laser machines for a variety of laser processing applications have driven CO2 laser optics component consumption. Laser systems meet the demand of manufacturers to reduce part cost and improve quality, as well as augment process precision, speed, throughput, flexibility, repeatability, and automation. CO2 lasers offer benefits in a wide variety of cutting, welding, drilling, ablation, cladding, heat treating, and marking applications for materials such as steel alloys, non-ferrous metals, plastics, wood, paper, fiberboard, ceramics and composites. Automobile manufacturers, for example, employ lasers both to cut body components and to weld those parts together in high-throughput production lines. Manufacturers of recreational vehicles, motorcycles, lawn mowers and garden tractors cut, trim, and weld metal parts with lasers to reduce post-processing steps and, therefore, lower overall manufacturing costs. Furniture manufacturers utilize lasers because they allow easily reconfigurable, low-cost prototyping and production capabilities for customer-specified designs. In high-speed food and pharmaceutical packaging lines, laser marking provides automated product, date, and lot coding on containers. In addition to being installed by original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) of laser systems in new machine builds, our optical components are purchased as replacement parts by end users of laser machines to maintain proper system performance. We believe that the current addressable market serviced by our Infrared Optics segment is approximately $250 million. Near-Infrared Optics Market. Over recent years, the laser market has continued to grow driven by increased applications in the industrial, medical, and military markets. Industrial market segments addressed by YAG lasers include higher power applications such as cutting and welding, and lower power applications such as marking and date coding. These markets are demanding higher power levels for less cost, creating competition from other technologies. Medical applications driving the recent market growth include aesthetic, vision correction, and dental lasers. The military market is driven by rangefinders, target designators, and missile detection. The largest growth segment of the military market impacting our Near-Infrared Optics business is the ultra-violet (UV) Filters used in early warning missile detection. The near-infrared market is further defined to address opportunities in the areas of custom crystals and near-infrared optics. We believe the current addressable market serviced by our Near-Infrared Optics segment is approximately $250 million. Military Infrared Optics Market. Several key optical components such as windows, domes and related subassemblies are core products offered to the military market for infrared applications in night vision, targeting, navigation and Homeland Security systems. Infrared windows, window assemblies and navigational and targeting systems are employed on fixed and rotary-wing aircraft, such as the F-16 fighter jet, Apache Attack Helicopter and the Joint Strike Fighter, ground vehicles such as the Abrams M-1 Tank and Bradley Fighting Vehicle and Unmanned Air Vehicles. Infrared domes are used on missiles with infrared guidance systems ranging from small, man portable designs to larger designs mounted on helicopters, fixed-wing aircraft and ground vehicles. Additionally, multiple fighter jets including the F-16 are being equipped with large area sapphire panels manufactured by our Company providing advanced targeting and imaging capabilities. The development and manufacture of these large area sapphire windows has played a key role in our capability to provide an even larger suite of sapphire panels that are a key component of the Joint Strike Fighter Electro Optical Targeting System. High-precision domes are an integral component of a missile’s targeting system providing efficient tactical capability while serving as a protective cover to its internal components. Our military infrared optical products are sold primarily to the U.S. government prime contractors and directly to various U.S. government agencies. We believe the current addressable market serviced by our Military Infrared Optics business is approximately $200 million. Thermo-electric Coolers Market. Thermo-electric coolers (TECs) are solid-state semiconductor devices that act as small heat pumps to cool, heat, or temperature stabilize a wide range of materials, components and systems. Conversely, the principals underlying thermo-electrics allow TECs to be used as a source of power when subjected to a temperature difference. TECs are more reliable than alternative cooling solutions that require moving parts, and provide more precise temperature control solutions than competing technologies. TECs also have many other advantages over competing technologies that have spurred their adoption in a variety of industries and applications. TECs provide critical cooling and temperature stabilization solutions in a myriad of defense and space applications, including infrared cooled and uncooled temperature stabilized night vision technologies and thermal reference sources that are deployed in smart and state-of-the-art weapons by our armed forces. TECs also allow for temperature stabilization for telecommunication lasers that generate and amplify optical signals for fiber optics systems as well as cooling solutions for a variety of medical applications that are used primarily in instrumentation and analytical applications including DNA replication and blood analyzers. The industrial, commercial, and consumer markets 4 provide a variety of niche applications ranging from desk top refrigerators and wine coolers to semi-conductor process and test equipment. Mosquito trap applications utilize the power generation capabilities of the technology to rid residences, resorts and refugee camps of mosquitoes. We believe the current addressable market serviced by our Marlow subsidiary is approximately $225 million. Silicon Carbide Substrate Market. Silicon Carbide (SiC) is a wide bandgap semiconductor material that offers high-temperature, high-power and high-frequency capabilities as a substrate for applications that are emerging at the high-performance end of the defense, telecommunication, and industrial markets. SiC has certain intrinsic physical and electronic advantages over competing semiconductor materials such as silicon and gallium arsenide. For example, the high thermal conductivity of SiC enables SiC and Gallium Nitride (GaN) based devices to operate at high power levels and still dissipate the excess heat generated. Typically, our customers deposit either SiC or GaN epitaxial layers on a SiC substrate and then fabricate optoelectronic or electronic devices. SiC and GaN based structures are being developed and deployed for the manufacture of a wide variety of microwave and power switching devices. High power, high frequency SiC based microwave devices are used in telecommunication base station transmitters and traditional silicon devices in both commercial and military air traffic radar applications. SiC high power, high-speed switching devices improve the performance and reliability of electrical power transmission and distribution systems and for motor controls in a wide variety of applications including aircraft, automotive, industrial, communications and energy exploration applications. We believe the current addressable market serviced by our Compound Semiconductor Group’s Wide Bandgap group is approximately $30 million. X-ray and Gamma-ray Radiation Sensors Market. Solid-state radiation sensors and components are sold primarily to companies engaged in the manufacture of medical diagnostic, medical imaging, industrial gauging/inspection and security and monitoring equipment. The use of x-ray or gamma-ray radiation enables more rapid and accurate measurement of medical conditions, industrial quality and early detection and identification of nuclear and explosive materials. Solid-state sensors based on CdZnTe are making inroads against older, more established technologies, such as cryogenically cooled germanium detectors or sodium iodide scintillators coupled to photomultiplier tubes. Opportunities for x-ray and gamma-ray sensors are present in the areas of digital radiography, nuclear medicine, industrial gauging, radiation monitoring, security scanning, and nuclear safeguards/non-proliferation. We believe the current addressable market serviced by our Compound Semiconductor Group’s eV PRODUCTS division is approximately $50 million. Our Strategy Our strategy is to build businesses with world-class, high technology materials capabilities at their core. Our significant materials capabilities are as follows: • Infrared Optics: Zinc Selenide (ZnSe) and Zinc Sulfide (ZnS) • Near-Infrared Optics: Yttrium Aluminum Garnet (YAG), Yttrium Lithium Fluoride (YLF), Calcium Fluoride (CaF2) and Potassium Nickel Sulfate (KNS) • Military Optics: Germanium (Ge) • Thermo-electric coolers: Bismuth Telluride (Bi2Te3) • Silicon Carbide substrates: Silicon Carbide (SiC) • X-ray and gamma-ray sensors: Cadmium Zinc Telluride (CdZnTe) We subsequently manufacture precision parts and components from these and other materials using expertise in low damage surface and micro fabrication, thin-film coating and exacting metrology. A substantial portion of our business is based on long-term contracts with market leaders, which enables substantial forward planning and production efficiencies. We intend to capitalize on the execution of this proven model, participate effectively in the growth of the market and continue our focus on operational excellence as we execute additional growth initiatives. Our specific strategies are as follows: • Vertical-Integration. By combining the capabilities of our various business segments and operating units, we have created opportunities for our businesses to address manufacturing opportunities across multiple disciplines and markets. Where appropriate, we develop and/or acquire technological capabilities in areas such as material refinement, crystal growth, fabrication, diamond-turning, thin-film coating and metrology. • Continue Investment in Manufacturing Operations. We continually invest in our manufacturing operations worldwide to increase production capacity and capabilities. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, we invested $21.3 million, $14.4 million and $19.1 million, respectively, for capital expenditures, the majority of which was for our manufacturing operations. 5 • Enhance Our Reputation as a Quality and Customer Service Leader. We are committed to understanding our customers' needs and meeting their expectations. We have established ourselves as a consistent high quality supplier of components into our customers' assembly lines. In many cases, we deliver on a just in time basis. We believe our quality and delivery performance enhance our relationships with our customers. • Utilize Asian Manufacturing Operations. Our manufacturing operations in Singapore and China play an important role in the operational and financial performance of the Company, specifically for the Infrared and Near-Infrared Optics segments. We will continue to invest in these operations and utilize their capabilities. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005, we established a manufacturing operation in Vietnam which services our Near-Infrared Optics and Compound Semiconductor Group segments. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, we acquired PRM. Our Asian operations also help to lower our overall effective tax rates as the tax structures in these countries are lower than other countries in which the Company does business. • Pursue Strategic Acquisitions and Alliances. Some of the markets we participate in remain fragmented and we expect consolidation to occur over the next several years. We will carefully pursue strategic acquisitions and alliances with a limited number of companies whose products or technologies may compliment our current products, expand our market opportunities or create synergies with our current capabilities. We intend to identify acquisition opportunities that accelerate our access to emerging high growth segments of the markets we serve and further leverage our competencies and economies of scale. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 we acquired PRM, we made a minority investment in Guangdong Fuxin Electronic Technology Company, a China-based manufacturer of thermo-electric consumer appliances, and we purchased the remaining 25% interest of II-VI Suisse S.a.r.l. • Pursue Military Programs. Our Military Infrared Optics business serves military and defense applications. In addition, a portion of our other businesses are focused on products that are utilized in military and defense applications. Our strategy is to actively work with major defense contractors during the initial product development phase in order to incorporate our products into our customers’ systems. Early participation in long-term programs has proven to be a successful strategy and a competitive advantage in addressing the military market. • Balanced Approach to Research and Development. Our research and development program includes both internally and externally funded research and development expenditures targeting an overall investment between 5 and 10 percent of product revenues. We are committed to accepting the right mix of internally and externally funded research that ties closely to our long-term strategic objectives. Our Products The main products for each of our businesses are described as follows: Infrared Optics. We supply a broad line of precision infrared optical components such as lenses, output couplers, windows and mirrors for use in CO2 lasers. Our precision optical components are used to attenuate the amount of laser energy, enhance the properties of the laser beam, and focus and direct laser beams to a target work surface. The optical components include both reflective and transmissive optics and are made from materials such as zinc selenide, copper, silicon, gallium arsenide and germanium. Transmissive optics used with CO2 lasers are predominately made from ZnSe. We believe we are the largest manufacturer of ZnSe in the world. We supply replacement optics to end users of CO2 lasers. Over time, optics may become contaminated and must be replaced to maintain peak laser operations. This aftermarket portion of our business continues to grow as laser applications proliferate worldwide and the installed base of serviceable laser systems increases each year. We serve the aftermarket via a combination of selling to OEM’s and selling directly to end system users through our direct sales and marketing employees. Near-Infrared Optics. We offer a wide variety of standard and custom laser gain materials and optics for industrial, medical, military, scientific and research and development laser systems. Laser gain materials are produced to stringent industry specifications and precisely fabricated to customer demands. Key materials and precision optical components for YAG and other solid-state laser systems complete our near-infrared optics product offerings. We 6 manufacture waveplates, polarizers, lenses, prisms and mirrors for visible and near-infrared applications, which are used to control or alter visible or near-infrared energy and its polarization. In addition, we manufacture coated windows used as debris shields in the industrial and medical laser aftermarkets. Our Near-Infrared Optics segment also produces components for UV Filters used in early warning missile detection. The end use of the products we make is in systems used to detect shoulder-launched missiles to help improve the survivability of low-flying aircraft if attacked. Military Infrared Optics. We offer optics and optical subassemblies for military infrared systems including thermal imaging, night vision, targeting and navigation systems. Our product offering is comprised of missile domes, electro-optical windows and subassemblies, imaging lenses and other components. Our precision optical products utilize infrared optical materials such as sapphire, ZnSe, ZnS, germanium, silicon, and aluminum oxynitride. In addition, our products also include visible materials and fused silica. Our products are currently utilized on the Abrams M-1 Tank, Apache Attack Helicopter, F-15, F/A-18 and F-16 military aircraft, UAV’s and other platforms, as well as future production programs such as the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. Thermo-electric Coolers. We supply a broad array of TECs and related assemblies to various market segments. In the defense market, TECs are used in guidance systems, smart weapons and night vision systems. TECs are also used in products providing temperature stabilization for telecommunication lasers that generate and amplify optical signals for fiber optic communication systems. We also produce and sell a variety of solutions from thermo-electric components to complete subsystems used in the medical equipment market and other industrial and commercial applications. We offer single stage TECs, multi-stage TECs, extended life coolers and thermo-electric thermal reference sources. SiC. Our product offerings are 6H-SiC (semi-insulating and conducting) and 4H-SiC (conducting) poly-types and are available in several diameter sizes. SiC substrates are used in solid-state lighting, wireless infrastructure, radio frequency (RF) electronics and power switching industries. Solid-State Radiation Sensors. We design, manufacture and market CdZnTe room temperature, solid-state radiation sensors combined with custom-designed low noise electronics and imbedded control systems. CdZnTe based imaging arrays are used in nuclear medicine (internally emitted gamma-rays), radiography (x-rays from an external source), security applications and food and beverage inspection. Research, Development and Engineering Our research and development program includes internally and externally funded research and development expenditures targeting an overall investment of between 5 and 10 percent of product revenues. From time to time, the ratio of externally funded contract activity to internally funded contract activity varies due to the unevenness of government research programs and changes in the focus of our internally funded research programs. We are committed to accepting the right mix of internally and externally funded research that ties closely to our long-term strategic objectives. We devote significant resources to research, development and engineering programs directed at the continuous improvement of existing products and processes and to the timely development of new technologies, materials and products. We believe that our research, development and engineering activities are essential to our ability to establish and maintain a leadership position in each of the markets that we serve. As of June 30, 2007, we employed 291 people in research, development and engineering functions, 242 of which are engineers or scientists. In addition, manufacturing personnel support or participate in research and development on an ongoing basis. Interaction between the development and manufacturing functions enhances the direction of projects, reduces costs and accelerates technology transfers. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, we made focused research and development investments in: • Silicon Carbide Substrate Technology: Technology development efforts in silicon carbide substrates continue to move forward, with emphasis in the areas of material purity, defect density reduction, surface polishing and diameter expansion. We were awarded development funding as a team partner on a multi-year, Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency SiC initiative. This program is focused on materials optimization, device development and Department of Defense (DOD) system module demonstration for high power radar, electronic warfare, missile seeker and communication system. We have also been awarded funding by the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) and Missile Defense Agency (MDA) focused on the development and producability of 100mm diameter SiC substrates for RF applications. In addition, we have 7 launched a significant research and development program to improve manufacturing yields using Design of Experiment (DOE) methodology. Our research and development efforts in this area have been both internally and externally funded. • Ultra-violet Filters: Development activities for our UV Filter product line include enhancing process control, yields and capacity. Our research and development efforts in this area have been both internally and externally funded. • Ceramic Oxide Materials: Our activities in this area are focused on process improvements, benchmarking the quality of commercially available research-grade ceramics and comparing their properties and performance to single crystal materials. Continued efforts will investigate composite materials for thermally-enhanced laser architectures and could lead to new applications. Our research and development efforts in this area have been both internally and externally funded. • Thermo-electric Materials and Devices: Within our Compound Semiconductor Group’s Marlow subsidiary, we continue to develop the industry-leading Bi2Te3 Micro-Alloyed Materials (MAM) for thermo-electric cooling applications. Enabled by the thermal performance and fine grain microstructure of MAM, Marlow’s research and development has focused on achieving levels of miniaturization and watt density beyond the reach of TECs based on single crystal and polycrystalline materials produced by standard crystal growth techniques. In addition, we are developing capabilities in thermo-electric power generation materials that, combined with our advantageous intellectual property position, will allow us to bring to market new thermo-electric compounds that have been developed for NASA. Our research and development efforts in thermo-electric materials have been both internally and externally funded. The development and manufacturing of our products and processes is largely based on proprietary technical know-how and expertise. We rely on a combination of contract provisions, trade secret laws, invention disclosures and patents to protect our proprietary rights. We have entered into selective intellectual property licensing agreements. When faced with potential infringement of our proprietary information, we have in the past asserted and vigorously protected our rights. Internal research and development expenditures were $6.4 million, $6.9 million and $5.8 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. For these same periods, the external research and development expenditures were $9.6 million, $7.1 million and $6.8 million, respectively. Marketing and Sales We market our products through a direct sales force in the U.S., Japan, Singapore, China, the Philippines, Germany, Belgium, Switzerland and the U.K., and through representatives and distributors elsewhere in the world. Our market strategy is focused on understanding customer requirements and building market awareness and acceptance of our products. New products are constantly being produced and sold to our established customers in all markets. Each of our product lines is responsible for its own worldwide marketing and sales functions, as follows, although certain subsidiaries sell more than one product line: 1) The Infrared Optics marketing and sales activities are handled through a direct sales force in the U.S. and through our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Japan, Singapore, China, Germany, Belgium, Switzerland and the U.K. Distributors are utilized throughout the rest of the world. 2) The Near-Infrared Optics marketing and sales initiative is handled through a direct sales force in the U.S., through our wholly-owned international subsidiaries as well as distributors throughout the rest of the world. 3) The Military Infrared Optics marketing and sales initiative is handled through a direct sales force in the U.S. 4) The thermo-electric coolers marketing and sales initiative is handled through a direct sales force in the U.S., through our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Japan and the U.K. as well as through distributors throughout the world. 5) The silicon carbide marketing and sales initiative is handled through a direct sales force in the U.S. and through our wholly-owned international subsidiaries. 8 6) The x-ray and gamma-ray sensors marketing and sales initiative is handled through a direct sales force in the U.S. and through our wholly-owned international subsidiaries and manufacturers' representatives throughout the rest of the world. Our sales force develops effective communications with our OEM and end-user customers worldwide. Products are actively marketed through targeted mailings, telemarketing, select advertising, attendance at trade shows and customer partnerships. Our sales force includes a highly trained team of application engineers to assist customers in designing, testing and qualifying our parts as key components of our customers' systems. As of June 30, 2007, we employed 118 individuals in sales, marketing and support. Due to our customers' buying patterns, particularly in Europe, revenues for our first fiscal quarter ending in September are typically below those in the preceding quarter. Our first fiscal quarter results often are dependent upon the sales made in the last month of the quarter. Manufacturing Technology and Processes As noted in the “Our Strategy” section, many of the products we produce depend on our ability to manufacture and refine technically challenging materials and components. The table below shows these key materials. Product Line Materials Produced • Infrared Optics ZnSe and ZnS • Near-Infrared Optics YAG, YLF, CaF2 and KNS • Military Optics Ge • Thermo-electric Coolers Bi2Te3 • Silicon Carbide Substrates SiC • X-ray and Gamma-ray Sensors CdZnTe The ability to produce, process and refine these difficult materials and to control the quality and yields is an expertise of the Company. Processing these materials into finished products is also difficult to accomplish; yet the quality and reproducibility of these products are critical to the performance of our customer's instruments and systems. In the markets we serve there are a limited number of suppliers of many of the components we manufacture, and there are very few industry-standard products. Our network of worldwide manufacturing sites allows products to be produced in regions that provide cost-effective advantages and enable proximity to our customers. We employ numerous advanced manufacturing technologies and systems at our manufacturing facilities. These include automated, Computer Numeric Control optical fabrication, high throughput thin-film coaters, micro precision metrology and custom-engineered automated furnace controls for the crystal growth processes. Manufacturing products for use across the electro-magnetic spectrum requires the capabilities to repeatedly produce products with high yields to atomic tolerances. We embody a technology and quality mindset that gives our customers the confidence to utilize our products on a just in time basis straight into the heart of their production lines. Sources of Supply The major raw materials we use include Zinc, Selenium, Hydrogen Selenide, Hydrogen Sulfide, Cadmium, Tellurium, Yttrium Oxide, Aluminum Oxide, Iridium, Platinum, Bismuth, Silicon, Thorium Fluoride, Antimony, Carbon, Gallium Arsenide, Copper, Silicon, Germanium, Molybdenum, Quartz, optical glass and other materials. Excluding our own production, there are more than two external suppliers for all of the above materials except for Zinc Selenide, Zinc Sulfide, Hydrogen Selenide and Thorium Fluoride, for each of which there is one proven source of supply outside of the Company’s capabilities. For many materials, we have entered into purchase arrangements whereby suppliers provide discounts for annual volume purchases in excess of specified amounts. The continued high quality and access to these materials is critical to the stability and predictability of our manufacturing yields. We conduct testing of materials at the onset of the production process. Additional research and capital investment may be needed to better define future starting material specifications. We have not experienced significant production delays due to shortages of materials. However, we do occasionally experience problems 9 associated with vendor supplied materials not meeting contract specifications for quality or purity. A significant failure of our suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of necessary high-quality materials on a timely basis could have a materially adverse effect on the results of our operations. Customers Our existing customer base for infrared optics for our laser component products consists of over 5,000 customers worldwide. The three main groups of customers for these products are as follows: • Original equipment manufactures (OEM’s) and system integrators of industrial, medical and military laser systems. Representative customers are Rofin-Sinar Technologies, Trumpf, and Bystronic. • Laser end users who require replacement optics for their existing laser systems. Representative customers are John Deere and Caterpillar. • Military and aerospace customers who require products for use in advanced targeting, navigation and surveillance. Representative customers are Northrop Grumman and Lockheed-Martin. For our near infrared optics products, our customers are original equipment manufacturers and system integrators of solid-state lasers used in industrial, scientific, military and medical markets. Representative customers include Volkswagen, Candela Corporation and Alliant Technologies. For our military infrared optics products, our customers are manufacturers of equipment and devices for aerospace, defense and commercial markets. Representative customers include Lockheed-Martin, Raytheon Corporation, General Dynamics and various U.S. government agencies. For our thermo-electric cooler products, our customers are manufacturers and developers of equipment and devices for defense and space, telecommunications, medical and industrial and commercial markets. Representative customers include Raytheon, Beckman Coulter and American Biophysics Corp. For our SiC products, our customers are manufacturers and developers of equipment and devices for high power RF electronics and high power and high voltage switching and power conversion systems for both Department of Defense and commercial applications. We are currently dependent on a limited number of key customers for this product line and we face strong competition from the industry leader and other market participants. For our solid-state radiation sensor products, our customers are manufacturers of equipment and devices for medical imaging, defense applications, nuclear safeguards, space and industrial applications. We are currently dependent on a limited number of key customers for this product line and face strong competition from suppliers of products based on incumbent and legacy technology. Competition We believe that we are a significant producer of products and services in our addressed markets. In the area of commercial infrared laser optics and materials, we believe we are an industry leader. We are a significant supplier of YAG rods and near-infrared laser optics to the worldwide markets for defense, scientific, research, medical and industrial applications. We are a leading supplier of infrared optics used in complex military assemblies for targeting, navigation and thermal imaging systems to major military prime contractors. We believe we are a global leader in the design and manufacturer of thermo-electric coolers and thermal control subsystems. We believe we are a preferred alternative to the leading supplier of single crystal SiC substrates for use in the defense, telecommunication and industrial markets. We believe we are the leading supplier of CdZnTe substrates and devices for x-ray and gamma-ray sensors and components. We compete on the basis of product technical specifications, quality, delivery time, technical support and pricing. Management believes that we compete favorably with respect to these factors and that our vertical integration, manufacturing facilities and equipment, experienced technical and manufacturing employees, and worldwide marketing and distribution provide competitive advantages. We have a number of present and potential competitors that have greater financial, selling, marketing or technical resources. A competitor in the production of ZnSe is Rohm and Haas Company. Competitors producing 10 infrared and CO2 laser optics include Sumitomo Electric and Ophir Optronics as well as several companies producing limited quantities of infrared and CO2 laser optics. Competing producers of YAG materials and optics include Northrop Grumman Corporation, Saint-Gobain and CVI Laser Corporation. Competing producers of infrared optics for military applications are Goodrich, Elcan and in-house fabrication and thin-film coating capabilities of major military prime contractors, such as Raytheon Corporation. Competing producers of thermo-electric coolers include Komatsu, Laird-Melcor and ITI Ferrotec. Competing producers of single crystal SiC substrates include Cree, Dow Corning and SiCrystal. Competing producers of CdZnTe and CdZnTe sensors include Acrorad, Orbotech and Redlen. In addition to competitors who manufacture products similar to those we produce, there are other technologies or materials that can compete with our products. Bookings and Backlog We define our bookings as customer orders received that are expected to be converted to revenues over the next twelve months. For long-term customer orders, the Company records only those orders which are expected to be converted into revenues within twelve months from the end of the reporting period due to the inherent uncertainty of an order that far in the future. For the year ended June 30, 2007, our bookings, including those bookings converted to revenues prior to year end, were approximately $275 million compared to bookings of approximately $242 million for the year ended June 30, 2006. We define our backlog as bookings that have not been converted to revenues by the end of the reporting period. Bookings are adjusted if changes in customer demands or production schedules move a delivery beyond twelve months. As of June 30, 2007, our backlog was approximately $107 million compared to approximately $84 million at June 30, 2006. Employees As of June 30, 2007, we employed 2,138 persons worldwide. Of these employees, 291 were engaged in research, development and engineering, 1,460 in direct production and the balance in sales and marketing, administration, finance and support services. Our production staff includes highly skilled optical craftsmen. We have a long-standing practice of encouraging active employee participation in areas of operations management. We believe our relations with our employees to be good. We reward our employees with incentive compensation based on achievement of performance goals. Two hundred and twelve employees located in the Philippines are covered under a collective bargaining agreement. Trade Secrets, Patents and Trademarks We rely on our trade secrets, proprietary know-how, invention disclosures and patents to help us develop and maintain our competitive position. We have begun to aggressively pursue process and product patents in certain areas of our businesses. We have confidentiality and noncompetition agreements with certain personnel. We require all U.S. employees sign a confidentiality and noncompetition agreement upon commencement of employment. The processes and specialized equipment utilized in crystal growth, infrared materials fabrication and infrared optical coatings as developed by us are complex and difficult to duplicate. However, there can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology or that all aspects of our proprietary technology will be protected. Others have obtained patents covering a variety of infrared optical configurations and processes, and others could obtain patents covering technology similar to our technology. We may be required to obtain licenses under such patents, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain such licenses, if required, on commercially reasonable terms, or that claims regarding rights to technology will not be asserted which may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our research and development contracts with agencies of the U.S. Government present a risk that project-specific technology could be disclosed to competitors as contract reporting requirements are fulfilled. We currently hold ten registered trademarks: “CAPture(TM)” for gamma-ray spectrometers for portable instrumentation utilized by our eV PRODUCTS division “EPIready(TM)” for low surface damage substrates for Mercury Cadmium Telluride epitaxy “eV PRODUCTS(TM)” for products manufactured by our eV PRODUCTS division “II-VI Incorporated(TM)” 11 “Infraready Optics(TM)” for replacement optics for industrial CO2 lasers “Laser Power Corporation(TM)” “MP-5(TM) for low absorption coating technology” “Marlow Industries, Inc.(TM)” name “Marlow Industries, Inc.(TM)” trademark “Z-Bond(TM)” for epoxy bonding of substrates and/or ASICs utilized by our eV PRODUCTS division ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company cautions investors that its performance (and, therefore, any forward-looking statement) is subject to risks and uncertainties. Various important factors including, but not limited to, the following may cause the Company’s future results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. We Depend on Highly Complex Manufacturing Processes Which Require Products from Limited Sources of Supply We utilize high quality, optical grade ZnSe in the production of many of our infrared optical products. We are the leading producer of ZnSe for our internal use and for external sale. The production of ZnSe is a complex process requiring a highly controlled environment. A number of factors, including defective or contaminated materials, could adversely affect our ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields of high quality ZnSe. ZnSe is available from only one outside source whose quantities and qualities may be limited. The unavailability of necessary amounts of high quality ZnSe would have a material adverse effect upon us. There can be no assurance that we will not experience manufacturing yield inefficiencies which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We produce Hydrogen Selenide gas which is used in our production of ZnSe. There are risks inherent in the production and handling of such material. Our inability to effectively handle Hydrogen Selenide could require us to curtail our production of Hydrogen Selenide. Hydrogen Selenide is available from only one outside source whose quantities and qualities may be limited. The cost of purchasing such material is greater than the cost of internal production. As a result, the purchase of a substantial portion of such material from the outside source would increase our ZnSe production costs. Therefore, our inability to internally produce Hydrogen Selenide could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, we produce and utilize other high purity and relatively uncommon materials and compounds to manufacture our products. A significant failure of our internal production processes or our suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of these necessary materials on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. International Sales Account for a Significant Portion of Our Revenues Sales to customers in countries other than the U.S. accounted for approximately 42%, 41% and 40% of revenues during the years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. In addition, we manufacture products in Singapore, China, Vietnam and the Philippines and maintain direct sales offices in Germany, Japan, Switzerland, the U.K. and Belgium. Sales and operations outside of the U.S. are subject to certain inherent risks, including fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies, tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers, political and economic instability, restrictions on the export or import of technology, potentially limited intellectual property protection, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations and potentially adverse tax consequences. There can be no assurance that any of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In particular, currency exchange fluctuations in countries where we do business in the local currency could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition by rendering us less price-competitive than foreign manufacturers. Our sales in Japan are denominated in Yen and, accordingly, are affected by fluctuations in the dollar/Yen currency exchange rates. We generally reduce our exposure to such fluctuations of the Yen through forward exchange agreements which target to hedge approximately 75% of our sales in Japan. We do not engage in the speculative trading of financial derivatives. There can be no assurance, however, that our practices will reduce or eliminate the risk of fluctuation of the Yen in the U.S. dollar/Japanese Yen currency exchange rate. 12 We May Encounter Substantial Competition We may encounter substantial competition from other companies in the same market, including established companies with significant resources. Some of our competitors may have financial, technical, marketing or other capabilities more extensive than ours and may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and other competitive pressures. We may not be able to compete successfully against our present or future competitors, and competition may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. There Are Limitations on the Protection of Our Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyright and trademark laws combined with employee non-competition and nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that, in the future, third parties will not assert infringement claims against us. Asserting our rights or defending against third-party claims could involve substantial expense, thus materially and adversely affecting our business, results of operations or financial condition. In the event a third party were successful in a claim that one of our processes infringed its proprietary rights, we may have to pay substantial damages or royalties, or expend substantial amounts in order to obtain a license or modify processes so that they no longer infringe such proprietary rights, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our Success Depends on the Ability to Retain Key Personnel We are highly dependent upon the experience and continuing services of certain scientists, engineers and production and management personnel. Competition for the services of these personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain or attract the personnel necessary for our success. The loss of the services of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Keeping Pace with Key Industry Developments is Essential We are engaged in industries which will be affected by future developments. The introduction of products or processes utilizing new developments could render existing products or processes obsolete or unmarketable. Our continued success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce on a timely and cost-effective basis new products, processes and applications that keep pace with developments and address increasingly sophisticated customer requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, developing and marketing new products, applications and processes and that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of product or process enhancements or new products, applications or processes, or that our products, applications or processes will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if we were to incur delays in developing new products, applications or processes or if we did not gain market acceptance for the same. Our Success Depends on New Products and Processes In order to meet our strategic objectives, we must continue to develop, manufacture and market new products, develop new processes and improve existing processes. As a result, we expect to continue to make significant investments in research and development and to continue to consider from time to time the strategic acquisition of businesses, products, or technologies complementary to our business. Our success in developing, introducing and selling new and enhanced products depends upon a variety of factors including product selection, timely and efficient completion of product design and development, timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes, effective sales and marketing, and product performance in the field. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and introduce new products or enhancements to our existing products and processes in a manner which satisfies customer needs or achieves market acceptance. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. We May Expand Product Lines and Markets by Acquiring Other Businesses Our business strategy includes expanding our product lines and markets through internal product development and acquisitions. Any acquisition may result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt 13 and contingent liabilities, and amortization expense related to intangible assets acquired, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, acquired businesses may be experiencing operating losses. Any acquisition will involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired company's operations and products, uncertainties associated with operating in new markets and working with new customers, and the potential loss of the acquired company’s key personnel. The following information relates to significant acquisitions made since fiscal year ended June 30, 1995. Acquired Party Year Acquired Business Segment Percentage Ownershipas of June 30, 2007 Virgo Optics Division of Sandoz Chemicals Corporation Fiscal 1995 Near-Infrared Optics 100 % Lightning Optical Corporation Fiscal 1996 Near-Infrared Optics 100 % Laser Power Corporation Fiscal 2001 Military and Materials and Infrared Optics 100 % Silicon Carbide Group of Litton Systems, Inc. Fiscal 2002 Compound Semiconductor Group 100 % 5NPlus, Inc. Fiscal 2002 Compound Semiconductor Group 36 % II-VI Deutschland GmbH Fiscal 2003 and Fiscal 2006 Infrared Optics and Near-Infrared Optics 100 % II-VI Suisse S.a.r.l. Fiscal 2004 and Fiscal 2007 Infrared Optics 100 % Ultra-Violet Filter Product Line of Coherent, Inc. Fiscal 2004 Near-Infrared Optics 100 % Marlow Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2005 Compound Semiconductor Group 100 % Pacific Rare Specialty Metals & Chemicals, Inc. Fiscal 2007 Military and Materials 98 % Our Revenues May Suffer if General Economic Conditions Worsen Our revenues and earnings may be affected by general economic factors, such as inflation, currency fluctuations and employment levels, resulting in a temporary or longer-term overall decline in demand for our products. Therefore, any significant downturn or recession in the U.S. or other countries could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. A Significant Portion of Our Business is Dependent on Other Cyclical Industries Our business is significantly dependent on the demand for products produced by end-users of industrial lasers. Many of these end-users are in industries that historically have experienced a highly cyclical demand for their products. As a result, demand for our products is subject to cyclical fluctuations. This cyclical demand could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our Revenues are Subject to Potential Seasonal Fluctuations Due to our customers’ buying patterns, particularly in Europe, revenues for our first fiscal quarter ending in September could be below those in the preceding quarter. Our first fiscal quarter results often are dependent upon the sales made in the last month of the quarter. Declines in the Operating Performance of one of Our Business Segments Could Result in an Impairment of the Segment’s Goodwill As of June 30, 2007 we had goodwill of approximately $24.5 million in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We test our goodwill on an annual basis or when an indication of possible impairment exists in order to determine whether the carrying value of our assets is still supported by the fair value of the underlying business. To the extent that it is not, we are required to record an impairment charge to reduce the asset to fair value. A decline in the operating performance of any of our business segments could result in a goodwill impairment charge which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 14 Exposure to Government Markets With the acquisition of Marlow and the increase in the military portion of our Near-Infrared Optics businesses, as well as our continued Military Infrared Optics business, sales to customers in the defense industry have increased. These customers in turn generally contract with a governmental entity, typically the U.S. government. Most governmental programs are subject to funding approval and can be modified or terminated with no warning upon the determination of a legislative or administrative body. The loss or failure to obtain certain contracts or a loss of a major government customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws May Limit the Price that Investors May be Willing to Pay in the Future for Shares of Our Common Stock Our articles of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions which could make us a less attractive target for a hostile takeover or make more difficult or discourage a merger proposal, a tender offer or a proxy contest. The provisions include: classification of the board of directors into three classes; a procedure which requires shareholders or the board of directors to nominate directors in advance of a meeting to elect such directors; the ability of the board of directors to issue additional shares of Common Stock or preferred stock without shareholder approval; and certain provisions requiring supermajority approval (at least two-thirds of the votes cast by all shareholders entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class). In addition, the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law contains provisions which may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control. All of these may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay for shares of our Common Stock. We Are Subject to Stringent Environmental Regulation We use or generate certain hazardous substances in our research and manufacturing facilities. We believe that our handling of such substances is in material compliance with applicable local, state and federal environmental, safety and health regulations at each operating location. We invest substantially in proper protective equipment, process controls and specialized training to minimize risks to employees, surrounding communities and the environment resulting from the presence and handling of such hazardous substances. We regularly conduct employee physical examinations and workplace monitoring regarding such substances. When exposure problems or potential exposure problems have been uncovered, corrective actions have been implemented and re-occurrence has been minimal or non-existent. We do not carry environmental impairment insurance. Relative to the generation and use of the hazardous substance Hydrogen Selenide, we have in place an emergency response plan. Special attention has been given to all procedures pertaining to this gaseous material to minimize the chances of its accidental release into the atmosphere. With respect to the manufacturing, use, storage and disposal of the low-level radioactive material Thorium Fluoride, our facilities and procedures have been inspected and licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Thorium-bearing by-products are collected and shipped as solid waste to a government-approved low-level radioactive waste disposal site in Clive, Utah. The generation, use, collection, storage and disposal of all other hazardous by-products, such as suspended solids containing heavy metals or airborne particulates, are believed by us to be in material compliance with regulations. We believe that all of the permits and licenses required for operation of our business are in place. Although we do not know of any material environmental, safety or health problems in our properties or processes, there can be no assurance that problems will not develop in the future which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Some Laser Systems Are Complex in Design and May Contain Defects that Are Not Detected Until Deployed Which Could Increase Our Costs and Reduce Our Revenues Laser systems are inherently complex in design and require ongoing maintenance. As a result of the technical complexity of our products, changes in our or our suppliers' manufacturing processes or in the use of defective or contaminated materials by us or our suppliers, a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields and product reliability could result. To the extent that we do not achieve acceptable yields or product reliability, our business, operating results, financial condition and customer relationships could be adversely affected. 15 Our customers may discover defects in our products after the products have been fully deployed and operated under peak stress conditions. In addition, some of our products are combined with products from other vendors, which may contain defects. Should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. If we are unable to fix defects or other problems, we could experience, among other things: loss of customers; increased costs of product returns and warranty expenses; damage to our brand reputation; failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; diversion of development and engineering resources; or legal action by our customers. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Recently Issued Financial Accounting Standards In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109” (“FIN 48”), which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return, including issues relating to financial statement recognition and measurement. FIN 48 provides that the tax effects from an uncertain tax position can be recognized in the financial statements only if the position is “more-likely-than-not” of being sustained if the position were to be challenged by a taxing authority. The assessment of the tax position is based solely on the technical merits of the position, without regard to the likelihood that the tax position may be challenged. If an uncertain tax position meets the “more-likely-than-not” threshold, the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being recognized upon ultimate settlement with the taxing authority, is recorded. The provisions of FIN 48 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, with the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle recorded as an adjustment to opening retained earnings. The Company is in the process of evaluating the effect that the adoption of this interpretation will have on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements,” (“SFAS 157”) which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 clarifies that fair value should be based on assumptions that market participants would use when pricing an asset or liability and establishes a fair value hierarchy of three levels that prioritizes the information used to develop those assumptions. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets and the lowest priority to unobservable data. SFAS 157 requires fair value measurements to be separately disclosed by level within the fair value hierarchy. The provisions of SFAS 157 will become effective for the Company beginning July 1, 2008. The provisions of this statement are to be applied prospectively with a cumulative effect of accounting change recognized upon initial application. We are currently evaluating the impact that SFAS 157 may have on the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2009. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities – Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115,” (“SFAS 159”) which permits entities to choose to measure eligible items at fair value at specified election dates and report unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings at each subsequent reporting date. SFAS 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS 159 to impact its consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2008. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 16 