Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our Common Shares is subject to risks inherent to our development stage business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report including information in the beginning section of this report entitled “Forward Looking Statements”. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If one or more, or a combination of any of the following risks actually materialize into a negative event or circumstance, our business, financial condition and/or our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our Common Stock could decline significantly. Risk Factors Related to Our Company and Our Business We have experienced extraordinary delays in getting the Development Agreement with the Government of Oman signed. As of the date hereof, the DA governing the development and ownership of the Omagine Project has not yet been signed by our 60% owned subsidiary and the Government of Oman. We have been negotiating this DA with the Government for many years now and have experienced many delays in the process. On February 13, 2014, the Ministry of Tourism (“MOT”) proposed a slight variation to the boundaries of the Omagine Site (the “New Boundaries”). On February 17, 2014, Omagine LLC accepted and agreed to the New Boundaries. On February 18, 2014, Omagine LLC delivered copies of the final Omagine DA to MOT (the “Final DA”). On March 3, 2014, the Company’s president, Frank Drohan, spoke to the Minister of Tourism, His Excellency Ahmed Al-Mahrizi, who informed Mr. Drohan that (i) the Final DA was acceptable, and (ii) MOT had now determined that, since the land for the Omagine Site came from His Majesty, the Sultan, it was also necessary that the Office of Royal Court Affairs consent to the New Boundaries. On March 10, 2014, Mr. Drohan met with Mr. Al-Yahyai of RCA and explained the above matter of the New Boundaries in detail and delivered drawings of the New Boundaries proposed by MOT to Mr. Al-Yahyai. Mr. Al-Yahyai called the President of H.E. Al-Kindi’s office, explained the matter to him and was asked by the President of the RCA Minister’s office to send an official letter in Arabic (not an email) from Omagine LLC to H.E. Al-Kindi explaining the matter and attaching the drawings. On March 11, 2014, Mr. Drohan delivered the letter from Omagine LLC (in Arabic) and the attached drawings requested to Mr. Al-Yahyai at RCA. On March 13, 2014, Mr. Al-Yahyai delivered Mr. Drohan’s letter to H.E. Al-Kindi along with the attached drawings and a covering memorandum from Mr. Al-Yahyai. On March 18, 2014, RCA wrote to MOT consenting to the New Boundaries. On March 26, 2014 MOT informed the Company that it had received RCA’s consent letter and would procure the New Krooki from MOH. We are presently waiting for MOT to receive the New Krooki from MOH. No date for the DA signing has been set as of the date hereof but management presently expects that the DA signing is imminent. 18 To the best knowledge and belief of the Company and its attorneys, and based on management’s previous meetings and conversations with the Minister of Tourism, other than the requirement to obtain an updated land deed for the Omagine Site, no further barrier to signing the DA exists as of the date hereof and both we and the Government now agree that all matters with respect to the DA have been resolved. We have however been at similar points with the Government in the past and in all of those instances the Government raised new and often pointless issues at the last minute. Although there have been extraordinary delays to date by the Government, the Company believes, based on continued assurances from the Government, that the Government remains eager to conclude and sign the DA. No assurance, however, that the DA will actually be signed can be given at this time. (See: “Description of Business - The Development Agreement”). We are a development stage entity with no history of profitability from the development of real estate and we have incurred significant losses and cannot assure you that we will be profitable in the near term or at all. The Company is a development stage entity (“DSE”) as defined in ASC 915 issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. We have dedicated the vast majority of our financial resources over the past many years toward the effort to conclude the Development Agreement (“DA”) with the Government of Oman with respect to the Omagine Project. We have encountered numerous delays and as of the date hereof the DA has not yet been signed. As a result we have incurred significant losses over the past few years, including net losses of $2,640,590 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 and $2,789,976 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, primarily due to an absence of revenue due to our being a DSE and to expenses, including significant non-cash expenses related to stock options, associated with the design, development and promotion of the Omagine Project. We expect to continue to incur such losses and expenses over the near term, which will adversely impact our overall financial performance and results of operations. The Omagine Project may never come to fruition, and if it does it still may never result in a profit to the Company. Sales of our proposed real estate development properties, and income, if any, from the Omagine Project may never generate sufficient revenues to fund our continuing operations. We cannot assure you that we will be profitable in the near term or at all. Because of our status as a DSE and our limited history and the potential for competition, an investment in our Company is inherently risky. Because we are a development stage company with a limited history, our operations are subject to numerous risks similar to those of a start-up company. We expect the real estate development business to be highly competitive because many developers have access to the same market. Substantially all of them have greater financial resources and longer operating histories than we have and can be expected to compete within the business in which we engage and intend to engage. We cannot assure you that we will have the necessary resources to be competitive. Our ability to use net operating loss carryovers to reduce future tax payments may be limited or restricted. We have generated significant net operating losses (“NOLs”) as a result of our recent losses. We generally are able to carry NOLs forward to reduce taxable income in future years. However, our ability to utilize the NOLs is subject to the rules of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Section 382 generally restricts the use of NOLs after an “ownership change.” An ownership change occurs if, among other things, the shareholders (or specified groups of shareholders) who own or have owned, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of a corporation’s common stock or are otherwise treated as 5% shareholders under Section 382 and the Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder increase their aggregate percentage ownership of that corporation’s stock by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock owned by these shareholders over a three-year rolling period. In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of taxable income a corporation may offset with NOL carry forwards. This annual limitation is generally equal to the product of the value of the corporation’s stock on the date of the ownership, multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate published monthly by the Internal Revenue Service. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years until the applicable expiration date for the respective NOL carry forwards. We do not believe that the Rights Offering and Warrant Distribution caused an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382. However, we cannot ensure that our ability to use our NOLs to offset income will not become limited in the future. As a result, we could pay taxes earlier and in larger amounts than would be the case if our NOLs were available to reduce our federal income taxes without restriction. At December 31, 2013, the Company had federal NOLs of approximately $14,104,000, expiring in various amounts from fiscal year 2017 to fiscal year 2033. Current United States income tax law limits the amount of loss available to offset against future taxable income when a substantial change in ownership occurs. 19 We may not be able to conduct successful operations in the future. The results of our operations will depend, among other things, upon our ability to develop and market the Omagine Project. Furthermore, our proposed operations may not generate income sufficient to meet operating expenses or may generate income and capital appreciation, if any, at rates lower than those anticipated or necessary to sustain ourselves. Our operations may be affected by many factors, some known by us, some unknown, and some which are beyond our control. Any of these problems, or a combination thereof, could have a materially adverse effect on our viability as an ongoing enterprise and might cause the investment of our shareholders to be impaired or lost. While our 2013 audited financial statements assume we will continue our operations on a going concern basis, the opinion of our independent auditors on those financial statements contained an explanatory paragraph stating that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The opinion of our independent auditors on our 2013 audited financial statements states that the presentation of the Company’s financial statements is in accordance with the guidance contained in ASC 915 for financial statements of development stage entities, and such opinion also contained an explanatory paragraph that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our audited financial statements were prepared under the assumption that we will continue our operations on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the discharge of liabilities in the normal course of business. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. Although we have entered into the SEDA (as hereinafter defined) and have recently raised additional capital via the Rights Offering and private placements of our Common Stock, if we sustain unanticipated losses and we cannot continue as a going concern, our shareholders may lose all of their investment in the Company. To fully develop our business plan we will need additional financing. We expect to continue to rely principally upon the financing received as a result of sales of Common Stock made pursuant to the SEDA (See: “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources”). For the past several years we have relied principally upon financing from sales of Common Stock made pursuant to the SEDA (as hereinafter defined), the Rights Offering and the First SEDA. We have also raised limited private placement funds during the past several years and may be required to do so in the future. We cannot guarantee the success of this plan. We will have to obtain additional financing in order to conduct our business in a manner consistent with our proposed operations. There is no guaranty that additional funds will be available when, and if, needed. If we are unable to obtain financing, or if its terms are too costly, we may be forced to curtail expansion of operations until such time as alternative financing may be arranged, which could have a materially adverse impact on our operations and our shareholders' investment. It is impossible to predict if any Warrants will ever be exercised because the market price of a Common Share as of the date hereof is lower than either of the Warrant Exercise Prices. Although we cannot be absolutely certain, the Company believes that there is virtually no probability that any Warrants will be exercised unless the market price for a share of the Company’s Common Stock trades materially above the relevant Warrant Exercise Price prior to the Warrant Expiration Date or Redemption Date. (See: “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Rights Offering and Warrant Distribution”). We anticipate that we will be subject to intense competition. We will face intense competition in the development of real estate in Oman. Other developers have started developing real estate in nearby areas with similar residential developments. Even after the Rights Offering and entering into the SEDA, we lack capital. Even after the conclusion of the Rights Offering in 2012 and our entry into the SEDA, we will require additional funds to sustain our operations as presently contemplated. There can be no guaranty that such additional funds will be available in the future. If we are unable to obtain additional financing as required, or if its terms are too costly, we may be forced to curtail the expansion of our operations until such time as alternative financing may be arranged which could have a materially adverse impact on our operations and our shareholders' investments. 20 Our ultimate success will be dependent upon management. Our success is dependent upon the skill and decision making ability of our directors and executive officers, who are Frank J. Drohan, Charles P. Kuczynski, Louis J. Lombardo, William Hanley and Sam Hamdan. The loss of any or all of these individuals could have a material adverse impact on our operations. We do not presently have a written employment agreement with any of our officers or directors (See: “Executive Compensation – Employment Agreements”). We have not obtained key man life insurance on the lives of any of these individuals. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain key people and consultants. If we are not able to retain and recruit qualified personnel, which we require now and will require to conduct our operations after the DA is signed, our business and our ability to successfully implement our business plan could be adversely affected. We will rely on dividends from Omagine LLC for most of our revenue. Because we are a holding company with no significant operations other than the proposed operations of our 60% owned subsidiary, Omagine LLC, we will depend upon dividends from Omagine LLC for a substantial portion of our future revenues. Omagine LLC has generated no revenue to date and we do not anticipate that Omagine LLC will be in a position to pay dividends until after the development of the Omagine Project is well underway, an event that, as of the date hereof, is uncertain to occur. We are subject to risks associated with investments in real estate. The value of our proposed properties and our projected income therefrom may decline due to developments that adversely affect real estate generally and those that are specific to our proposed properties. General factors that may adversely affect our potential real estate holdings include: ● increases in interest rates; ● adverse changes in foreign exchange rates; ● a decline in prevailing rental rates for the properties we intend to own and lease; ● a general tightening of the availability of credit and project financing facilities; ● a decline in economic conditions in Oman; ● an increase in competition for customers or a decrease in demand by customers for the residential and commercial properties we plan to develop and offer for sale; ● a decline in prevailing sales prices for the properties we intend to develop and offer for sale; ● an increase in supply in Oman of property types similar to those proposed to be developed by us; ● declines in consumer spending during an economic recession or recovery from an economic recession that adversely affect our revenue; and ● the adoption by the relevant government authorities in Oman of more restrictive laws and governmental regulations, including more restrictive zoning, licensing, land use, building or environmental regulations or increased real estate taxes. Additional factors may adversely affect the value of our proposed properties and our projected income therefrom, including: · failure to sign a development agreement with the Government of Oman; · adverse changes in the perceptions of prospective purchasers or users of the attractiveness of the properties proposed to be developed by us; · opposition from local community or political groups with respect to development or construction at a particular site; · a change in existing comprehensive zoning plans or zoning or environmental or business licensing regulations that impose additional restrictions on use or requirements with respect to the properties proposed to be developed by us; · our inability to provide adequate management and maintenance or to obtain adequate insurance for the properties proposed to be developed by us; · an increase in operating costs; · new development of a competitor's property in close proximity to the Omagine Project; · earthquakes, floods or underinsured or uninsured natural disasters; and · terrorism, political instability or civil unrest in Oman or the MENA Region. The occurrence or existence of one or more of the events or circumstances described above could result in significant delays or unexpected expenses. If any of these events occur or circumstances come into existence, we may not achieve our projected returns on the Omagine Project and we could lose some or all of our investment in Omagine LLC and in the Omagine Project. 21 We are subject to risks associated with real estate development. The Omagine Project is subject to significant risks relating to Omagine LLC’s ability to complete it on time and within budget. Factors that may result in the Omagine Project or any other development project we may undertake in Oman or elsewhere exceeding budget or being prevented from completion include: · an inability to obtain or delays in obtaining zoning, environmental, occupancy or other required governmental permits, approvals and authorizations; · an inability to secure sufficient financing on favorable terms, including an inability to obtain or refinance construction loans; · a general tightening of the availability of credit and project financing facilities; · the prices of housing and commercial properties in Oman and consumer and/or business confidence; any of which could affect Omagine LLC’s ability to construct and/or sell homes and to construct, sell and/or lease commercial properties and/or to secure financing; · construction delays or cost overruns, either of which may increase project development costs; and · an increase in commodity costs. If any of the forgoing occurs or exists, we may not achieve our projected returns on the Omagine Project and we could lose some or all of our investment in Omagine LLC and in the Omagine Project or in other properties we may then have under development. We are vulnerable to concentration risks because our proposed operations are presently exclusively in Oman and our future operations are planned to be exclusively in Oman and the MENA Region market. Our real estate activities are presently concentrated exclusively on the Omagine Project to be located in Oman. Because of such geographic and project specific concentration, our operations are more vulnerable to Oman and MENA Region economic downturns and adverse project-specific events than those of larger, more diversified companies. The performance of Oman’s economy will greatly affect the values of the properties proposed to be developed by us and consequently our prospects for sales and revenue growth. The Oman economy is heavily influenced by the prices of crude oil and natural gas which are Oman’s main export products and sources of revenue. Fluctuations in the international price of crude oil directly affect Oman’s revenue and budget considerations and a decrease in government supported projects and employment because of budget cuts or otherwise, could adversely affect the economy in Oman. Our results of operations and financial condition will be greatly affected by the performance of the real estate industry. Our real estate activities are, and will continue to be, subject to numerous factors beyond our control, including local real estate market conditions in Oman and in areas where our potential customers reside, substantial existing and potential competition, general economic conditions in Oman, the MENA Region and internationally, fluctuations in interest rates and mortgage availability and changes in demographic conditions. Real estate markets have historically been subject to strong periodic cycles driven by numerous factors beyond the control of market participants. Real estate investments often cannot easily be converted into cash and market values may be adversely affected by economic or political circumstances, market fundamentals, competition or demographic conditions. Because of the effect these factors may have on real estate values and because of the long length of the project development cycle, the future sales prices for our individual proposed properties or the future level of our sales revenue from the operation, sales and/or leasing of our various proposed properties, is impossible to predict with certainty and difficult to predict with accuracy. Our real estate operations will also be dependent upon the availability and cost of mortgage financing for our potential customers to the extent they finance the purchase of the residences or commercial properties we intend to develop and offer for sale. The real estate business is very competitive and many of our competitors are larger and financially stronger than we are. The real estate business is highly competitive. We compete with a large number of companies and individuals, and most of them have significantly greater financial, managerial and other resources than we have. Our competitors include local developers who are committed primarily to the Oman market and also international developers who acquire properties throughout the MENA Region. Because we are a development stage company with a limited history, our operations are subject to numerous risks similar to those of a start-up company. We cannot assure that we will have the necessary resources to be competitive. 22 Our operations are subject to political risks. The recent and ongoing civil and political unrest in the MENA Region, the U.S. and NATO military intervention in Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya, the terrorist attacks in the U.S., Europe and the MENA Region, and the potential for additional future terrorist acts and civil and/or political unrest have created economic, political and social uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect our business. Further acts of civil and/or political unrest or terrorism could be directed against the U,S. or Oman either domestically or abroad. These acts of terrorism or civil unrest could be directed against properties and personnel of American companies that work abroad, particularly companies such as ours that operate in the MENA Region. Recent and ongoing anti-corruption trials in Oman involving alleged bribery involved in contract administration and awards (especially in the oil sector) involving dozens of government officials and private individuals, including two senior executives of CCC-Oman, have been ongoing in Muscat’s Court of First Instance. Results of these trials are now regularly reported in the local newspapers and to date, the trials have returned verdicts against several high-profile government officials and business people, including a senior CCC-Oman executive. Although, the Company is not involved in any way and does not foresee any impact on its business or that of Omagine LLC as a result of the ongoing anti-corruption campaign or as a result of any present or future outcome therefrom, because CCC-Oman is a shareholder of Omagine LLC, it is possible, though quite unlikely, that the aforementioned involvement of an executive at CCC-Oman may, for political considerations unknown to us, adversely affect Omagine LLC’s reputation in Oman. Civil and/or political unrest, terrorism, war, political considerations, and/or military developments may materially and adversely affect our business and profitability and the prices of our Common Stock in ways that we cannot predict at this time. Our operations are subject to natural risks. Our performance may be adversely affected by weather conditions that delay development or damage property. Risk Factors Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above your purchase price. There has been and continues to be a limited public market for our Common Stock. Although our Common Stock trades on the OTCQB, an active trading market for our shares has not developed and may never develop or be sustained. If you purchase shares of our Common Stock, you may not be able to resell those shares at or above the price you paid. The market price of our Common Stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: ● failure to sign the DA with the Government of Oman; ● the exercise of Warrants; ● actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; ● changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or our failure to perform in line with such estimates; ● changes in market valuations of other real estate companies, particularly those that sell products similar to ours; ● announcements by us or our competitors of significant innovations, acquisitions, strategic investors or partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; or ● departure of key personnel. Much of our Common Stock is currently restricted. As restrictions on resale end, the market price of our Common Stock could drop significantly if the holders of restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. This could cause the market price of our Common Stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Our Common Stock has a limited public trading market. While our Common Stock currently trades on the OTCQB, the market for our Common Stock is limited and sporadic. We cannot assure that such market will improve in the future, even if our Common Stock is ever listed on a national stock exchange. We cannot assure that an investor will be able to liquidate his investment without considerable delay, if at all. If a more active market for our Common Stock does develop, the price may be highly volatile. The factors which we have discussed in this document may have a significant impact on the market price of our Common Stock. The relatively low price of our Common Stock may keep many brokerage firms from engaging in transactions in our Common Stock. 23 The over-the-counter market for stock such as ours has had extreme price and volume fluctuations. The securities of companies such as ours have historically experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations during certain periods. These broad market fluctuations and other factors, such as new product developments and trends in our industry and in the investment markets generally, as well as economic conditions and annual variations in our operational results may have a negative effect on the market price of our Common Stock. Additional stock offerings may dilute current stockholders. Given our plans and our expectation that we will need additional capital and personnel, we may need to issue additional shares of capital stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of capital stock, including preferred stock, options or warrants. The issuance of additional shares of capital stock for any of these reasons or pursuant to the exercise of Warrants may dilute the ownership of our current stockholders. Our management collectively beneficially owns approximately 30.7% of our Common Stock and this concentration of ownership may have the effect of preventing a change in control. Assuming their ownership of the shares of Common Stock underlying unexercised Stock Options and Warrants, our officers and directors collectively beneficially own approximately thirty and seven-tenths percent (30.7%) of our shares of Common Stock (See: “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management”). As a result, if our officers and directors act in concert, they will have the ability by virtue of their voting power to exercise substantial influence over our business with respect to the election of directors and all other matters requiring action by stockholders. Such concentration of share ownership may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. Our ability to issue preferred stock may adversely affect the rights of holders of our Common Stock and may make takeovers more difficult, possibly preventing you from obtaining the optimal share price. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of shares of "blank check" preferred stock, which would have the designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors. Accordingly, the Board of Directors is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of the Common Stock. The issuance of preferred stock could be used, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. Our Common Stock is subject to the “penny stock” rules of the SEC, which may make it more difficult for you to sell our Common Stock. The SEC has adopted Rule 15g-9 which establishes the definition of a "penny stock," for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require that: ● the broker or dealer approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks; and ● the broker or dealer receives from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: ● obtain the financial information and investment experience and objectives of the person; and ● make a reasonable determination that (a) transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person, and (b) the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: ● sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and ● states that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. The regulations applicable to penny stocks may severely affect the market liquidity for the shares of our Common Stock owned by you and could limit your ability to sell such securities in the secondary market. 24 As an issuer of “penny stock”, the protection provided by the federal securities laws relating to forward looking statements does not apply to us. Although federal securities laws provide a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by a public company that files reports under the federal securities laws, this safe harbor is not available to issuers of penny stocks. As a result, we will not have the benefit of this safe harbor protection in the event of any legal action based upon a claim that the material provided by us contained a material misstatement of fact or was misleading in any material respect because of our failure to include any statements necessary to make the statements not misleading. Such an action could hurt our financial condition. Other than the distribution of the Rights and Warrants in our 2012 Rights Offering and Warrant Distribution, we have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future unless and until dividends are paid to Omagine, Inc. by Omagine LLC. Any return on your investment may therefore be limited to the value of our Common Stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our Common Stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Up until this time the Company has utilized all cash reserves for the operation of its business and the Company plans to continue this policy for the foreseeable future. Any future payment of dividends on our Common Stock will depend on the payment of dividends to Omagine, Inc. by Omagine LLC and, as the Board of Directors may consider relevant, our earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors at such time. If we do not pay cash dividends, our Common Stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if the price of our Common Stock appreciates above the price you paid for it. There are substantial risks associated with the SEDA with YA which could contribute to the decline of the price of our Common Stock and have a dilutive impact on our existing stockholders In order to obtain needed capital, we entered into the SEDA with YA. The sale of our Common Shares pursuant to the SEDA will have a dilutive impact on our stockholders. We believe YA intends to promptly re-sell the shares that we sell to it under the SEDA. Such re-sales could cause the market price of our Common Stock to decline significantly. Any subsequent sales by us to YA under the SEDA may, to the extent of any such decline, require us to issue a greater number of shares of Common Stock to YA in exchange for each dollar of such subsequent sale. Under these circumstances our existing stockholders would experience greater dilution. The sale of our Common Stock under the SEDA could encourage short sales by third parties which could contribute to the further decline of the price of our Common Stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 