ITEM 1A. Risk FactorsWe operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. A description of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business is set forth below. You should carefully consider such risks and uncertainties, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 and in our other public filings. If any of such risks and uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could differ materially from the plans, projections and other forward-looking statements included in the section titled “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this report and in our other public filings. In addition, if any of the following risks and uncertainties, or if any other risks and uncertainties, actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially, potentially causing the market price of our stock to decline, perhaps significantly. The following section lists some, but not all, of these risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. IF WE DO NOT DEVELOP NEW PRODUCTS AND ENHANCE EXISTING PRODUCTS TO KEEP PACE WITH RAPIDLY CHANGING TECHNOLOGY AND INDUSTRY STANDARDS, OUR REVENUE MAY DECLINE.We have devoted significant resources to the research and development of products and technologies. We believe that our 7future success will depend in large part on strong research and development efforts with respect to both our existing and new products. We have made an extensive effort to leverage our Pick UDM and core intellectual property to create new product lines, which include our yolink search technology and our social media product called Postano. While we intend for these efforts to improve our future operating results and increase cash flow, such new products may not be successful or generate significant revenue. The development of new or enhanced software products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, as well as accurate anticipation of customer and technical trends. In developing new products and services, we may fail to develop and market products that respond to technological changes or evolving industry standards in a timely or cost-effective manner, or experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these new products. The development and introduction of new or enhanced products also requires us to manage the transition from older products in order to minimize disruptions in customer ordering patterns and to ensure that adequate supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customer demand. Failure to develop and introduce new products, or enhancements to existing products, in a timely and cost-effective manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or lack of customer acceptance of our products, will materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner, or achieve market acceptance of our products or that products and technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, if we acquire new technologies in the future, they could prove difficult to integrate and may disrupt our business, dilute stockholders' value and adversely affect our operating results. OUR FAILURE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR OPERATING RESULTS. The market for our products is highly competitive, diverse and subject to rapid change. Our products and services compete on the basis of the following key characteristics: performance; inter-operability; scalability; functionality; reliability; pricing; post sale customer support; quality; compliance with industry standards; and overall total cost of ownership. The application development tools software market is rapidly changing and intensely competitive. Our MDMS products compete with products developed by companies such as Oracle, Microsoft and IBM. Our RAD products currently encounter competition from several direct competitors, including Microsoft, and competing development environments, including JAVA. Direct competitors of our yolink search technology include Google, Yahoo, Microsoft, AOL and Ask, as well as a number of smaller companies with products that directly and indirectly compete with our yolink search technology. Direct competitors of our Postano social media product include Facebook and Twitter, as well as numerous smaller companies in the emerging social media marketplace. Additionally, as we expand our business, we expect to compete with a different group of companies, including smaller, highly focused companies offering single products. The strong competition we face in the sales of our products and services and general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect our operating results. Mo Most of our competitors have significantly more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, evolving markets and changes in customer requirements and may devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products. Our products and services could fall behind marketplace demands at any time. If we fail to address the competitive challenges, our business would suffer materially.BECAUSE OUR MDMS AND RAD PRODUCTS COMPETE WITH PRODUCTS FROM MUCH LARGER AND WELL KNOWN COMPANIES, OUR REVENUE MAY DECLINE IF WE CANNOT MAINTAIN OUR SALES TO EXISTING CUSTOMERS OR GENERATE SALES TO NEW CUSTOMERS. We face very strong competition from much larger and better known companies in the markets for our MDMS and RAD products. As a result, existing customers and new customers may be inclined to adopt other technologies. To maintain or grow our revenue in these markets, we will need to maintain or grow our sales to existing customers and to generate sales to new customers, including corporate development teams, commercial application developers, system integrators, independent software vendors and independent consultants. If we fail to attract new customers, if we lose our customers to competitors, or if the MDMS or RAD markets decline, our revenue may be adversely affected. In the longer term, it is expected that our revenue from the MDMS and RAD markets will eventually decline as customers adopt newer technologies. ADVERSE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS COULD CONTINUE TO HARM OUR BUSINESS. 8Our operations and performance depend significantly on global economic conditions. Instability in the global credit markets, including the recent European economic and financial turmoil related to sovereign debt issues in certain countries, may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. If economic conditions remain uncertain in key markets, including without limitation the United States and Western Europe where we derive a majority of our revenue, we will continue to experience adverse impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions, including recession, rising inflation, diminished credit availability, declining valuation of investments or other changes in economic conditions have resulted in lower information technology spending and have adversely affected our revenue. For example, current or potential customers may have been unable to fund software purchases, potentially causing them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or to not pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. Further, since we generally license our MDMS and RAD software on a per-CPU, per-server, per-port or per-user basis, any decrease in CPUs, servers, ports or users by our customers would result in a decrease in our revenue. These and other economic factors could continue to have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial results. WE HAVE A HISTORY OF LOSSES AND MAY CONTINUE TO INCUR SIGNIFICANT LOSSES IN THE FUTURE.We incurred net losses of approximately $3.5 million and $3.0 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit of approximately $108.8 million as of March 31, 2012. We may continue to incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including uncertainty as to the level of our future revenues and our efforts to monetize newer technologies we have developed including yolink and Postano. We plan to continue to pursue strategic opportunities and invest in new product development. Forecasting our revenues and profitability for these new business models is inherently uncertain and volatile. We will need to generate significant increases in our revenues to achieve and maintain profitability, particularly given the current small size of our business relative to the costs associated with being a public reporting company. If our revenue fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate or our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our losses would significantly increase which could harm our business and operating results. OUR PRODUCTS HAVE A LONG SALES CYCLE WHICH COULD RESULT IN DELAYS IN THE RECEIPT OF REVENUE. The sales cycle for our MDMS and RAD products typically ranges from three to nine months or longer. Our products are typically used by application developers, system integrators and value added resellers to develop applications that are critical to their corporate end user's business. Because our products are often part of an end user's larger business process, re-engineering initiative, or implementation of client/server or web-based computing, the end users frequently view the purchase of our products as part of a long-term strategic decision regarding the management of their workforce-related operations and expenditures. Thus, this sometimes results in end users taking a significant period of time to assess alternative solutions by competitors or to defer a purchase decision as a result of an unrelated strategic issue beyond our control. The adoption cycle for our yolink search technology and Postano social media products is anticipated to be long since the search and social media markets currently have much larger direct competitors such as Google, Yahoo, Microsoft, AOL, Ask, and Facebook and Twitter, respectively. As a result, a significant period of time may elapse between our research and development efforts and recognition of revenue, if any. THE CONCENTRATION OF OUR STOCK OWNERSHIP GIVES CERTAIN STOCKHOLDERS SIGNIFICANT CONTROL OVER OUR BUSINESS.As of May 31, 2012, Astoria beneficially owned approximately 53% of our outstanding common stock. Richard W. Koe, Chairman of the Board of Directors and our Interim President and Chief Executive Officer, serves as the Managing General Partner for Astoria Capital Management, Inc., a general partner of Astoria. This concentration of stock ownership allows Astoria, acting alone, to block any actions that require approval of our stockholders, including the election of members to our Board of Directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. Moreover, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control. WE MAY EXPERIENCE QUARTERLY FLUCTUATIONS IN OPERATING RESULTS, POSSIBLY RESULTING IN VOLATILITY OF OUR STOCK PRICE. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts of money in the area of research and development, sales and marketing and operations in order to promote new product development and introduction. Because the expenses associated with these activities are relatively fixed in the short-term, we may be unable to timely adjust spending to offset any unexpected shortfall in revenue growth or any decrease in revenue levels. Operating results may also fluctuate due to factors such as: •the size and timing of customer orders; •changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; 9•our ability to develop, introduce, and market new and enhanced versions of our products; •the number, timing, and significance of product enhancements and new product announcements by our competitors; •the demand for our products; •non-renewal of customer support agreements; •software defects and other product quality problems; and •personnel changes. We operate without a significant backlog of orders. As a result, the quarterly sales and operating results in any given quarter are dependent, in large part, upon the volume and timing of orders booked and products shipped during that quarter. Accordingly, we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unanticipated decrease in orders, sales or shipments. Therefore, any decline in demand for our products and services, in relation to the forecast for any given quarter, could materially and negatively impact the results of our operations. As a result, our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, potentially causing our stock price to be volatile. In addition, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. A significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. THE SUCCESS OF OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS IN PART UPON OUR ABILITY TO RECRUIT AND RETAIN KEY PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT. Mr. Koe was appointed Interim President and Chief Executive Office in February 2009. The loss of one or more of our executives could adversely affect our business. In addition, we have in the past restructured or made other adjustments to our workforce in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues, acquisitions and other internal and external considerations. Workforce restructurings could result in a temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity, negatively affecting our revenues. We believe that our future success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to recruit, hire and retain highly skilled management and employees with experience in engineering, product management, business development, sales, marketing and customer service. Competition for such personnel in the software industry can be intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. If we are unable to do so, we may experience inadequate levels of staffing to develop and license our products and perform services for our customers, adversely affecting our business. THE INABILITY TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY COULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE. Our ability to compete successfully will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and operations without infringing upon the rights of others. We may fail to do so. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Our trademarks include TigerLogic, yolink, Pick, D3, Omnis, Omnis Studio, mvEnterprise, mvBase, and mvDesigner, among others. We have eight issued U.S. patents, one allowed U.S. patent, and six pending U.S. patent applications as of March 31, 2012. Although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of these patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or that our rights will, in fact, provide competitive advantages to us. In addition, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending applications or that claims allowed on any patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the United States. Although we are not dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights to the totality of the features (including aspects of products protected other than by patent rights) in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products. In addition to trademark and copyright protections, we generally license our products to end users on a “right to use” basis pursuant to license agreements that restrict use of products to a specified number of users or a specified usage. We generally rely on “click-wrap” licenses that become effective when a customer downloads and installs software on its system or accesses and uses our software. In order to retain exclusive ownership rights to our software and technology, we generally provide our software in object code only, with contractual restrictions on copying, disclosure and transferability. 10There can be no assurance that these protections will be adequate, that our license agreements will be enforceable in the United States or foreign jurisdictions or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. THIRD PARTIES COULD ASSERT THAT OUR SOFTWARE PRODUCTS OR SERVICES INFRINGE ON THEIR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, POTENTIALLY RESULTING IN COSTLY LITIGATION, PRODUCT SHIPMENT DELAYS, PRODUCT LICENSING PROHIBITIONS OR REQUIRE US TO ENTER INTO ROYALTY OR LICENSING AGREEMENTS. There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the software and online services industry regarding intellectual property rights and there is significant uncertainty in our industry as many of the legal principles associated with software and online services continue to evolve rapidly. Third parties may claim that our current or potential future products or services infringe upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be periodically involved in any number of ordinary course of business proceedings of this type. We expect that software product developers and providers of software applications and online services will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products, services and competitors in our industry segment grow and the functionality of products and services in different industry segments overlap. Because of the existence of a large number of patents in the software field, the secrecy of some pending patents, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is not economically practical or even possible to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes or will infringe on the patent rights of others. The asserted claims and/or initiated litigation can include claims against us or our suppliers or customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products or components of those products. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, or require us to develop a non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Where claims are made by customers, resistance even to unmeritorious claims could damage customer relationships. There can be no assurance that licenses will be available on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all, or that our indemnification by our suppliers will be adequate to cover our costs if a claim were brought directly against us or our customers. Furthermore, because of the potential for high court awards that are not necessarily predictable, it is not unusual to find even arguably unmeritorious claims settled for significant amounts. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, if we are required to indemnify a customer with respect to a claim against the customer, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. OUR PRODUCTS MAY CONTAIN SOFTWARE DEFECTS POTENTIALLY HARMING OUR BUSINESS. Our enterprise applications software, search technology, and social media products may contain undetected errors or failures. This includes our higher risk yolink and Postano products because they are in the early stages of the product life cycle. This may result in loss of, or delay in, customer acceptance of our products and could harm our reputation and our business. Undetected errors or failures in computer software programs are not uncommon. The detection and correction of any security flaws can be time consuming and costly. Errors in our software products could affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. If we experience errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products, we could lose revenues. End users who rely on our products and services for applications that are critical to their businesses may have a greater sensitivity to product errors and security vulnerabilities than customers for software products generally. Software product errors and security flaws in our products or services could expose us to product liability, performance or warranty claims as well as harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. IF ASTORIA OR OTHER SECURITIES HOLDERS REQUEST REGISTRATION OF THEIR RESTRICTED SECURITIES, OR THESE SECURITIES HOLDERS SELL A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF RESTRICTED SECURITIES IN THE OPEN MARKET, OUR STOCK PRICE MAY DECLINE.As of May 31, 2012, we had 28,190,969 outstanding shares of common stock, of which approximately 15 million shares were restricted securities held by Astoria and other holders. Restricted securities may be sold in the public market only if they are registered or if they qualify for an exemption from registration promulgated under the Securities Act. At present, all of our outstanding restricted securities may be registered or are eligible for public sale under Rule 144, subject to volume limitations and other requirements of Rule 144. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock by Astoria or other securities holders in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, if we 11register shares of our common stock in connection with a public offering of securities, we may be required to include shares of restricted securities in the registration, possibly adversely affecting our ability to raise capital. OUR GLOBAL OPERATIONS EXPOSE US TO ADDITIONAL RISKS AND CHALLENGES ASSOCIATED WITH CONDUCTING BUSINESS INTERNATIONALLY.We operate on a global basis with offices or distributors in Europe, Africa, Asia, Latin America, South America, Australia and North America and development efforts in North America and Europe. Approximately 31% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 was generated from our international offices. We face several risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including but not limited to the following:•general economic conditions in each country or region;•fluctuations in interest rates or currency exchange rates;•language and cultural differences;•local and governmental requirements;•political or social unrest;•difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations;•potentially adverse tax consequences;•differences in intellectual property protections;•difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods;•seasonal business activities in certain parts of the world; and•trade policies.In addition, compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. These laws and regulations include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, import and trade restrictions, export requirements, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and also local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. These factors or any combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue or our overall financial performance.CHANGES IN OUR PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES OR ADVERSE OUTCOMES RESULTING FROM EXAMINATION OF OUR INCOME TAX RETURNS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R&D tax credit laws; by transfer pricing adjustments, including our intercompany cost sharing arrangements and legal structure; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by tax costs related to intercompany realignments; by changes in accounting principles; or by changes in tax laws and regulations, including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. The accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. In addition, we have and may become subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. THE FAILURE OF OUR PRODUCTS TO CONTINUE TO CONFORM TO INDUSTRY STANDARDS MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS. A key factor in our future success will continue to be the ability of our products to operate and perform well with existing and future, industry-standard enterprise software applications intended to be used in connection with our MDMS and RAD products. Inter-operability may require third party licenses, which may not be available to us on favorable terms or at all. Failure to meet existing or future inter-operability and performance requirements of industry standard applications in a timely manner could adversely affect our business. Uncertainties relating to the timing and nature of new product announcements or introductions or modifications of third party software applications could delay our product development, increase our product 12development expense or cause customers to delay evaluation, purchase, and deployment of our products. INEFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROLS COULD IMPACT OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS. Our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. As a smaller reporting company under the SEC rules and regulations, we are currently not subject to the requirements of independent auditor attestation of management's assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting set forth in Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 because the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act signed into law on July 21, 2010 permanently exempted companies that are not “accelerated filers” or “large accelerated filers” under the SEC rules from Section 404(b) requirements. If, in the future, we no longer qualify as a smaller reporting company and become an accelerated filer or a large accelerated filer (which may occur if the trading price of our stock, and therefore, our public float, increase significantly, as calculated on an annual basis), we will become subject to the requirements of Section 404(b) in such fiscal years. If such audit identifies any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we may be required to provide appropriate disclosures and implement costly and time consuming remedial measures. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. BUSINESS DISRUPTIONS COULD HURT OUR ABILITY TO EFFECTIVELY PROVIDE OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES, DAMAGING OUR REPUTATION AND HARMING OUR OPERATING RESULTS. The availability of our products and services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology systems. Our business operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks, or other attempts to harm our systems. A significant portion of our research and development activities and certain other critical business operations are located in areas with a high risk of major earthquakes. Although we maintain crisis management and disaster response plans, such events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver our services to our customers, and could decrease demand for our services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results.ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 