Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. The Company’s business is subject to certain risks that could affect the value of the Company’s common stock. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to successfully retain executive leadership and other key personnel, the Company’s ability to successfully develop and market its products and operate its business may be harmed. The Company has experienced a high level of turnover in its executive leadership, including the departures of its chief executive officer and its chief financial officer in October 2007. Both executive positions have been filled and, although the new executive management team is experienced in the industry and familiar with the Company, they may encounter some difficulty transitioning into their new positions and effectively managing the Company’s business processes, which may have a negative impact on the Company’s near term results of operations and financial position. Near term changes to the Company’s executive officers or the inability to retain other qualified management personnel could delay the development and introduction of new products, harm the Company’s ability to sell its products, damage the image of the Company’s brands and/or prevent the Company from executing its business strategy. Our products face intense competition. The market for golf apparel and sportswear is extremely competitive. The Company has several strong competitors, including Nike and Adidas, which have greater financial resources and larger market share and presence outside of the Company’s core green grass market. Price competition or industry consolidation could weaken the Company’s competitive position. Our competitors’ product offerings, technologies, marketing expenditures (including for advertising and endorsements), pricing, costs of production, and customer service are areas of intense competition. This competition, in addition to rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in our markets, constitutes a significant risk factor in our operations. If we do not adequately and timely anticipate and respond to our competitors or our consumers, our costs may increase or the consumer demand for our products may decline significantly. Failure to implement the Enterprise Resource Planning system may adversely affect the Company’s operations and financial results. In December 2005, the Company signed purchase contracts for a new Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) 12 Table of Contents system that was initially scheduled to be installed over the following two fiscal years. In December 2007, the new ERP system was placed into service in the United Kingdom. The initial implementation of the system in the United Kingdom was originally scheduled for May 2007, but was delayed six months due to difficulties experienced in the final design and rollout phase of the project. The Company intends to monitor and evaluate the operating benefits and efficiencies of the system in the United Kingdom over the next several months before implementing the system at the Company’s corporate headquarters which is not expected to take place before October 31, 2009. The Company may continue to experience difficulties in implementing the new ERP system in the United States and other related systems that could disrupt its ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of the results of its consolidated operations, its financial position and cash flows. Any disruptions or difficulties that may occur in connection with implementing the new ERP system or any future systems could also adversely affect the Company’s ability to complete the evaluation of its internal control over financial reporting and attestation activities pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. System failure or malfunctioning may result in disruption of operations and the inability to process transactions and could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. If our embroidery and distribution center fails to operate as anticipated, the Company could incur additional expense. The Company’s results of operations would continue to be adversely affected if the Company’s embroidery and distribution center (the “EDC”) does not operate as anticipated or functionality problems are encountered. We have been operating at an overall downtime percentage of under 2% for the second half of fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007. The EDC has operated substantially below its designed production capacity since its inception on November 1, 2004. A disaster recovery plan has also been in place for major disasters since the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Nonetheless, major long term functionality issues could occur. Any such operational problems may cause the Company to incur additional expense, experience delays in customer shipments, or require the Company to lease additional distribution space. In addition, the Company’s results of operations could be negatively impacted if future sales volume growth does not reach significantly higher levels and the facility’s additional distribution capacity is not fully utilized, or if the Company does not achieve projected cost savings from the distribution facilities as soon as, or in the amounts, anticipated. Failure to determine adequate inventory levels may result in decreased operating margins and harm our business. The Company maintains high levels of inventory to support its Authentics program as well as the Callaway Golf apparel classics program. Additional products, greater sales volume and customer trends toward increased “at-once” ordering may require increased inventory. Disposal of excess prior season inventory is an ongoing part of the Company’s business, and write-downs of inventories have materially impaired the Company’s financial position in the past and may do so again in the future. Particular inventories may be subject to multiple write-downs if the Company’s initial reserve estimates for inventory obsolescence or lack of sell-through prove to be too low. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if manufacturers fail to supply the products that we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers or result in lost sales, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships, and diminish brand loyalty. Failure to meet certain performance requirements could cause the Company to lose its exclusive licensing agreement with Callaway Golf. The Company is party to a multi-year licensing agreement to design, source and sell Callaway Golf apparel primarily in the United States, Europe and Canada. The agreement provides for, among other matters, minimum annual royalty payments and other sales and marketing commitments regardless of the Company’s actual sales of Callaway-branded products. In addition, the Company must meet certain performance requirements for calendar years 2008 and 2009 in order to have the option to extend the licensing agreement 13 Table of Contents for an additional five-year term after December 31, 2010. If the Company fails to meet these requirements, future agreements with Callaway Golf apparel may not be available and the Company’s revenues would materially decline. Changes in the retail industry could cause a decrease in the number of retail stores in which our products are carried. In recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership changes. In the future, retailers in the United States and in foreign markets may undergo changes that could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the department store retail industry, including: consolidating their operations; undergoing restructurings or reorganizations; or realigning their affiliations. These situations concentrate our credit risk in a relatively small number of retailers, and, if any of these retailers were to experience a shortage of liquidity, it would increase the risk that their outstanding payables to us may not be paid. Sales of our product are dependent on the economy, popularity of golf, and weather conditions. Demand for the Company’s products may decrease significantly if the economy weakens, if the popularity of golf decreases, if consolidation of golf properties continues, or if unusual weather conditions or other factors cause a reduction in rounds played. Development of fashions or styles that are not well received would negatively impact our revenues and net profits. Like other apparel manufacturers, the Company must correctly anticipate and help direct fashion trends within its industry. The Company’s results of operations and financial position would suffer if the Company develops fashions or styles that are not well received in any season. In the past, the Company has developed fashions and styles that were not well received by consumers, resulting in slower than anticipated sell-through of the Company’s products which required significant markdown allowances that materially impaired the Company’s financial position and adversely affected the results of operations. The Company may experience similar circumstances in the future. Poor sell-through of the Company’s products could cause reduced revenues and net profit. The Company sells a significant portion of its products to customers in the department store retail channel. If the department stores do not sell-through the Company’s products in a timely manner, they often request markdown allowances from the Company or delay future purchases of the Company’s products which could cause the Company to lose sales or receive lower margins. The Company’s products have experienced less than anticipated sell-through in the past and may do so again in the future. Our international sourcing involves inherent risks which could result in harm to our business. The Company does not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depends exclusively on independent third parties for the manufacture of all our products. Our products are manufactured to our specifications primarily by international manufacturers in Asian countries. Our largest single apparel and manufacturer operates in Thailand and Hong Kong and accounted for approximately 21% of our total apparel production during fiscal 2007. Our largest single headwear manufacturer is located in China and accounted for approximately 50% of our total headwear production during fiscal 2007. The inability of a manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a substantial reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Contractors may be unable to deliver the Company’s products if necessary raw materials are not available. The Company’s domestic and foreign suppliers rely on readily available supplies of raw materials at reasonable prices. If these raw materials are in short supply or are only available at inflated prices, the contractors may be unable to deliver the Company’s products in sufficient quantities or at expected prices and the Company could lose sales and have lower gross profit margins. Failure of our contractors to comply with labor laws and codes of conduct followed by the Company could disrupt our shipments and damage our reputation. The Company seeks to require its licensees and independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and certain codes of conduct. While our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our staff periodically visits and monitors the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. The violation of laws or codes of conduct by an independent manufacturer used by the Company or one of our licensees, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s or licensee’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any of these developments, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in higher costs and decreased margins. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect the Company’s ability to sell its products in foreign markets and the value in U.S. dollars of revenues received in foreign currencies. The Company’s revenues from its international segment may also be adversely affected by taxation and laws or policies of the foreign countries in which the Company has operations, as well as laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, investment and taxation. The Company’s international operations involve inherent risk which could result in harm to our business. As a result of its international business, the Company is exposed to increased risks inherent in conducting business outside of the United States. In addition to foreign currency risks and increased difficulty in protecting the Company’s intellectual property rights and trade secrets, these risks include (i) unexpected government action or changes in legal or regulatory requirements, (ii) social, economic or political instability, (iii) the effects of any anti-American sentiments on the Company’s brands or sales of the Company’s products, (iv) increased difficulty in controlling and monitoring foreign operations from the United States, including increased difficulty in identifying and recruiting qualified personnel for its foreign operations, and (v) increased exposure to interruptions in air carrier or shipping services which could significantly adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain timely delivery of products from international suppliers or to timely deliver its products to international customers. Although the Company believes the benefits of conducting business internationally outweigh these risks, any significant adverse change in circumstances or conditions could have a significant adverse effect upon the Company’s operations and its financial performance and condition. The Company may be adversely affected by the financial health of our customers. If economic conditions deteriorate, the ability of the Company’s customers to pay current obligations may be adversely impacted and the Company may experience an increase in delinquent and uncollectible accounts. The Company is subject to periodic litigation which could result in unexpected expense of time and resources. The Company is from time to time party to claims and litigation proceedings. Such matters are subject to 15 Table of Contents many uncertainties and the Company cannot predict with assurances the outcomes and ultimate financial impacts of them. There can be no guarantees that actions that have been or may be brought against the Company in the future will be resolved in the Company’s favor or that insurance carried by the Company will be available or paid to cover any litigation exposure. Any losses resulting from settlements or adverse judgments arising out of these claims could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial position and results of operations. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. The Company’s success depends to a significant degree upon its ability to protect and preserve its intellectual property, including copyrights, trademarks, patents, service marks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property. The Company relies on the intellectual property, patent, trademark and copyright laws of the United States and other countries to protect its proprietary rights. However, the Company may be unable to prevent third parties from using its intellectual property without its authorization, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect its proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. The use of the Company’s intellectual property by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage the Company has developed, causing it to lose sales or otherwise harm its business. If it became necessary for the Company to resort to litigation to protect these rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly and the Company may not prevail. Failure to retain and continue to obtain high quality endorsers of our products could harm our business. One of the key elements of the Company’s marketing strategy has been to obtain endorsements from professional golfers and celebrities, which contributes to the authenticity and image of our brands. Management believes that this strategy has been an effective means of gaining brand exposure worldwide and creating broad appeal for our products. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain its existing relationships with these individuals in the future or that it will be able to attract new athletes and celebrities to endorse its products. Our business is affected by seasonality and consumer discretionary spending, which could result in fluctuations in our operating results. The apparel industry has historically been subject to substantial cyclical variations. As domestic and international economic conditions change, trends in discretionary consumer spending become unpredictable and could be subject to reductions due to uncertainties about the future. When consumers reduce discretionary spending, purchases of specialty apparel may decline. A general reduction in consumer discretionary spending due to a recession in the domestic and/or international economies or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our operations, financial condition and the ability to enter into certain change of control transactions. The Company has a significant amount of indebtedness. As of October 31, 2007, the Company had a total of $60.8 million of indebtedness. $30.9 million of indebtedness that was outstanding under the Company’s term loan and revolving credit facility with Union Bank of California, N.A. (“Union Bank”) was paid off by the Company on the date that the new senior revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) of up to $55.0 million (subject to borrowing base availability), including a $15.0 million sub-limit for letters of credit (letters of credit will be 100% reserved against borrowing availability) with Bank of America, N.A., (“B of A”) was consummated. The Company’s indebtedness under the Credit Facility could have important consequences, such as: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund growth, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other cash requirements; • limiting our operational flexibility due to the covenants in the Credit Facility; • limiting our ability to invest operating cash flow in our business due to debt service requirements; • limiting our ability to compete with companies that are less leveraged and that may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns; • increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns and changing market conditions; and • making us vulnerable to fluctuations in market interest rates, to the extent that our debt is subject to floating interest rates. If our cash from operations is not sufficient to meet our expenses and obligations under the Credit Facility, we may be required to refinance our debt, sell assets, borrow additional money or raise equity. We expect to generate the funds necessary to pay our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on our outstanding debt from our operations. Because our business is seasonal, our borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit facility usually fluctuate during the year, generally peaking during March through May. Our ability to generate cash to meet our expenses and debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in consumer preferences, the success of our products, pressure from competitors and other matters discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (including this “Risk Factors” section). Many of these factors are beyond our control. Any factor that negatively affects our results of operations, including our cash flow, may also negatively affect our ability to pay the principal and interest on the Credit Facility. If we do not have enough cash to pay the Credit Facility, we may be required to amend it, refinance it, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or raise equity. We cannot assure you that we will be able, at any given time, to take any of these actions on terms acceptable to us or at all. Restrictive covenants in the Credit Facility may restrict our operational flexibility. Our ability to comply with these restrictions depends on many factors beyond our control. The Credit Facility includes certain covenants that, among other things, limits or restricts our ability to: • incur or guarantee additional debt; • incur liens; • pay dividends, repurchase stock or make other distributions; • sell assets; • make loans and investments; • enter into consolidations or mergers; and • enter into transactions with affiliates. The Credit Facility may also limit our ability to agree to certain change of control transactions, because a “change of control” (as defined in the Credit Facility) will result in an event of default. A breach of any of the covenants or restrictions contained in the Credit Facility could result in an event of default under the Credit Facility in which case the amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility could be declared immediately due and payable. If the payment of the indebtedness is accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and any other indebtedness that would become due as a result of any acceleration. The Credit Facility is subject to variable rates of interest, which could negatively impact the Company’s net profitability. Borrowings against the Credit Facility are at variable rates of interest and expose the Company to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, the Company’s debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and its net income and cash flows would decrease. Anti-takeover devices may prevent a sale, or changes in the management, of the Company. The Company has in place several anti-takeover devices, including a stockholder rights plan that may have 16 Table of Contents the effect of delaying or preventing a sale, or changes in the management, of the Company. For example, the Company’s bylaws require stockholders to give written notice of any proposal or director nomination to the Company within a specified period of time prior to any stockholder meeting. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 