ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. A description of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business is set forth below. You should carefully consider such risks and uncertainties, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 and in our other public filings. If any of such risks and uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could differ materially from the plans, projections and other forward-looking statements included in the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this report and in our other public filings. In addition, if any of the following risks and uncertainties, or if any other risks and uncertainties, actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline, perhaps significantly. The following section lists some, but not all, of these risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. IF WE DO NOT DEVELOP NEW PRODUCTS AND ENHANCE EXISTING PRODUCTS TO KEEP PACE WITH RAPIDLY CHANGING TECHNOLOGY AND INDUSTRY STANDARDS, OUR REVENUE MAY DECLINE. We have devoted significant resources to the research and development of products and technologies. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on strong research and development efforts with respect to both our existing and new products. Beginning in 2001, we began an extensive effort to leverage our time-proven Pick UDM and core intellectual property to create the TigerLogic product line, which includes an internet browser-based search application called Yolink and an enterprise class XML database management server for the emerging XML market. While we intend for these efforts to improve our future operating results and increase cash flow, such new products may not be successful or generate significant revenue. The development of new or enhanced software products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, as well as accurate anticipation of customer and technical trends. In developing new products and services, we may fail to develop and market products that respond to technological changes or evolving industry standards in a timely or cost-effective manner, or experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these new products. The development and introduction of new or enhanced products also requires us to manage the transition from older products in order to minimize disruptions in customer ordering patterns and to ensure that adequate supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customer demand. Failure to develop and introduce new products, or enhancements to existing products, in a timely and cost-effective manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or lack of customer acceptance of our products, will materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. OUR FAILURE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR OPERATING RESULTS. The market for our products is highly competitive, diverse and subject to rapid change. Our products and services compete on the basis of the following key characteristics: performance; inter-operability; scalability; functionality; reliability; pricing; post sale customer support; quality; compliance with industry standards; and overall total cost of ownership. 5 Table of Contents The application development tools software market is rapidly changing and intensely competitive. Our MDMS products compete with products developed by companies such as Oracle, Microsoft and IBM. Our RAD products currently encounter competition from several direct competitors, including Microsoft, and competing development environments, including JAVA. Competition is developing and evolving in the XML market for which our XDMS products are intended. Companies that do or are expected to compete in this market include Oracle, IBM, Microsoft and Sybase, as well as a number of smaller companies with products that directly and indirectly compete with our XDMS products. Our Yolink search application will encounter competition from several direct competitors including Google, Yahoo, Microsoft, AOL and Ask, as well as a number of smaller companies with products that directly and indirectly compete with our Yolink product. Additionally, as we expand our business, we expect to compete with a different group of companies, including smaller, highly focused companies offering single products. Most of our competitors have significantly more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, evolving markets and changes in customer requirements and may devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products. Our products and services could fall behind marketplace demands at any time. If we fail to address the competitive challenges, our business would suffer materially. BECAUSE OUR MDMS AND RAD PRODUCTS COMPETE WITH PRODUCTS FROM MUCH LARGER AND WELL KNOWN COMPANIES, OUR REVENUE MAY DECLINE IF WE CANNOT MAINTAIN OUR SALES TO EXISTING CUSTOMERS OR GENERATE SALES TO NEW CUSTOMERS. We face very strong competition from much larger and well known companies in the markets for our MDMS and RAD products. As a result, existing customers and new customers may be inclined to adopt other technologies. To maintain or grow our revenue in these markets, we will need to maintain or grow our sales to existing customers and to generate sales to new customers, including corporate development teams, commercial application developers, system integrators, independent software vendors and independent consultants. If we fail to attract new customers, if we lose our customers to competitors, or if the MDMS or RAD markets decline, our revenue may be adversely affected. In the longer term, it is expected that our revenue from the MDMS and RAD markets will eventually decline as customers adopt newer technologies. ADVERSE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions, which have deteriorated significantly in many countries and regions, including without limitation the United States and Western Europe from which we derive a majority of our revenue. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions, including recession, rising inflation, diminished credit availability, declining valuation of investments or other changes in economic conditions may result in lower information technology spending and may adversely affect our revenue. For example, current or potential customers may be unable to fund software purchases, which could cause them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or to not pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. Further, since we generally license our software on a per-CPU, per-server, per-port or per-user basis, any decrease in CPU’s, servers, ports or users by our customers would result in a decrease in our revenue. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial results. OUR PRODUCTS HAVE A LONG SALES CYCLE WHICH COULD RESULT IN DELAYS IN THE RECEIPT OF REVENUE. The sales cycle for our MDMS and RAD products typically ranges from three to nine months or longer and the sales cycle for our XDMS products is anticipated to be significantly longer since these markets are emerging and the products are still in the process of being adopted by the marketplace. The adoption cycle for our Yolink product is anticipated to be long since the search market currently has much larger direct competitors such as Google, Yahoo, Microsoft, AOL and Ask. Our products are typically used by application developers, system integrators and value added resellers to develop applications that are critical to their corporate end user’s business. Because our products are often part of an end user’s larger business process, re-engineering initiative, or implementation of client/server or web-based computing, the end users frequently view the purchase of our products as part of a long-term strategic decision regarding the management of their workforce-related operations and expenditures. Thus, this sometimes results in end users taking a significant period of time to assess alternative solutions by competitors or to defer a purchase decision as a result of an unrelated strategic issue beyond our control. As a result, a significant period of time may elapse between our research and development efforts and recognition of revenue, if any. THE CONCENTRATION OF OUR STOCK OWNERSHIP GIVES CERTAIN STOCKHOLDERS SIGNIFICANT CONTROL OVER OUR BUSINESS. As of March 31, 2009, Astoria beneficially owned approximately 56% of our outstanding common stock. Richard W. Koe, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Interim President and Chief Executive Officer, serves as the Managing General Partner for Astoria Capital Management, Inc. (“ACM”), which is a general partner of Astoria. This concentration of stock ownership allows Astoria, acting alone, to block any actions that require approval of our stockholders, including the election of members to our Board of Directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. Moreover, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control. 6 Table of Contents WE MAY EXPERIENCE QUARTERLY FLUCTUATIONS IN OPERATING RESULTS, WHICH MAY RESULT IN VOLATILITY OF OUR STOCK PRICE. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts of money in the area of research and development, sales and marketing and operations in order to promote new product development and introduction. Because the expenses associated with these activities are relatively fixed in the short-term, we may be unable to timely adjust spending to offset any unexpected shortfall in revenue growth or any decrease in revenue levels. Operating results may also fluctuate due to factors such as: • the size and timing of customer orders; • changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; • our ability to develop, introduce, and market new and enhanced versions of our products; • the number, timing, and significance of product enhancements and new product announcements by our competitors; • the demand for our products; • non-renewal of customer support agreements; • software defects and other product quality problems; and • personnel changes. We operate without a significant backlog of orders. As a result, the quarterly sales and operating results in any given quarter are dependent, in large part, upon the volume and timing of orders booked and products shipped during that quarter. Accordingly, we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unanticipated decrease in orders, sales or shipments. Therefore, any decline in demand for our products and services, in relation to the forecast for any given quarter, could materially and negatively impact the results of our operations. As a result, our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which may cause our stock price to be volatile. In addition, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. THE SUCCESS OF OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS IN PART UPON OUR ABILITY TO RECRUIT AND RETAIN KEY PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT. Mr. Koe was appointed Interim President and Chief Executive Office in February 2009, following the resignation of Carlton H. Baab. We are in the process of conducting a search for a permanent President and Chief Executive Officer. Our Vice President of marketing, Mr. Wong, submitted his notice of resignation from TigerLogic Corporation on May 19, 2009. We have accepted Mr. Wong’s resignation which will become effective June 19, 2009. The loss of one or more of our executives could adversely affect our business. In addition, we have in the past restructured or made other adjustments to our workforce in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues, acquisitions and other internal and external considerations. Workforce restructurings could result in a temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity, which could negatively affect our revenues. We believe that our future success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to recruit, hire and retain highly skilled management and employees with experience in engineering, product management, business development, sales, marketing and customer service. Competition for such personnel in the software industry can be intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. If we are unable to do so, we may experience inadequate levels of staffing to develop and license our products and perform services for our customers, which could adversely affect our business. THE INABILITY TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY COULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE. Our ability to compete successfully will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and operations without infringing upon the rights of others. We may fail to do so. In addition, the laws of certain countries in which our products are, or may be, licensed may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We rely primarily on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Our trademarks include TigerLogic, Yolink, ChunkIt!, Pick, D3, Omnis, Omnis Studio, mvEnterprise, mvBase, and mvDesigner, among others. We also have thirteen pending U.S. patent application as of March 31, 2009. In addition to trademark and copyright protections, we license our products to end users on a “right to use” basis pursuant to a perpetual license agreement that restricts use of products to a specified number of users. We generally rely on “click-wrap” licenses that become effective when a customer downloads and installs software on its system. In order to retain exclusive ownership rights to our software and technology, we generally provide our software in object code only, with contractual restrictions on copying, disclosure and transferability. There can be no assurance that these protections will be adequate, or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. 7 Table of Contents As further described in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K, we have filed complaints in Orange County Superior Court that set forth allegations that certain parties threaten to and have misappropriated our trade secrets, including the possible release of certain source code. THIRD PARTIES COULD ASSERT THAT OUR SOFTWARE PRODUCTS AND/OR SERVICES INFRINGE ON THEIR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN COSTLY LITIGATION, CAUSE PRODUCT SHIPMENT DELAYS, PROHIBIT PRODUCT LICENSING OR REQUIRE US TO ENTER INTO ROYALTY OR LICENSING AGREEMENTS. There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the software and online services industry regarding intellectual property rights and there is significant uncertainty in our industry as many of the legal principles associated with software and online services continue to evolve rapidly. Third parties may claim that our current or potential future products or services infringe upon their intellectual property rights. We expect that software product developers and providers of software applications and online services will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products, services and competitors in our industry segment grow and the functionality of products and services in different industry segments overlap. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention, cause product shipment delays, prohibit product licensing or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could seriously harm our business. OUR PRODUCTS MAY CONTAIN SOFTWARE DEFECTS WHICH COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our enterprise applications software and internet browser-based search application may contain undetected errors or failures. This includes our XDMS and Yolink products, which are at higher risk given these products are in the earliest stages of the product life cycle. This may result in loss of, or delay in, customer acceptance of our products and could harm our reputation and our business. Undetected errors or failures in computer software programs are not uncommon. The detection and correction of any security flaws can be time consuming and costly. Errors in our software products could affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. If we experience errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products, we could lose revenues. End users who rely on our products and services for applications that are critical to their businesses may have a greater sensitivity to product errors and security vulnerabilities than customers for software products generally. Software product errors and security flaws in our products or services could expose us to product liability, performance or warranty claims as well as harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. IF ASTORIA OR OTHER SECURITIES HOLDERS REQUEST REGISTRATION OF THEIR RESTRICTED SECURITIES, OR THESE SECURITIES HOLDERS SELL A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF RESTRICTED SECURITIES IN THE OPEN MARKET, OUR STOCK PRICE MAY DECLINE. As of March 31, 2009, we had 26,730,230 outstanding shares of common stock, of which approximately 15 million shares were restricted securities held by Astoria and other holders. Restricted securities may be sold in the public market only if they are registered or if they qualify for an exemption from registration promulgated under the Securities Act. At present, all of our outstanding restricted securities may be registered or are eligible for public sale under Rule 144, subject to volume limitations and other requirements of Rule 144. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock by Astoria or other securities holders in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, if we register shares of our common stock in connection with a public offering of securities, we may be required to include shares of restricted securities in the registration, which may have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital. OUR GLOBAL OPERATIONS EXPOSE US TO ADDITIONAL RISKS AND CHALLENGES ASSOCIATED WITH CONDUCTING BUSINESS INTERNATIONALLY. We operate on a global basis with offices or distributors in Europe, Africa, Asia, Latin America, South America, Australia and North America and development efforts in North America and Europe. Approximately 32% of our revenue for year ended March 31, 2009 was generated from our international offices. We face several risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including but not limited to the following: • fluctuations in interest rates or currency exchange rates; 8 Table of Contents • language and cultural differences; • local and governmental requirements; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; • differences in intellectual property protections; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • seasonal business activities in certain parts of the world; and • trade policies. In addition, compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. These laws and regulations include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, import and trade restrictions, export requirements, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws which also prohibit corrupt payments to governmental officials. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. These factors or any combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue or our overall financial performance. THE FAILURE OF OUR PRODUCTS TO CONTINUE TO CONFORM TO INDUSTRY STANDARDS MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS. A key factor in our future success will continue to be the ability of our products to operate and perform well with existing and future, industry-standard enterprise software applications intended to be used in connection with our MDMS, RAD, and TigerLogic products. Inter-operability may require third party licenses, which may not be available to us on favorable terms or at all. Failure to meet existing or future inter-operability and performance requirements of industry standard applications in a timely manner could adversely affect our business. Uncertainties relating to the timing and nature of new product announcements or introductions or modifications of third party software applications could delay our product development, increase our product development expense or cause customers to delay evaluation, purchase, and deployment of our products. INEFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROLS COULD IMPACT THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS. Our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. 