Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business is subject to certain risks that could affect the value of the Company’s common stock. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: ú Demand for the Company’s products may decrease significantly if the economy weakens, if the popularity of golf decreases, or if unusual weather conditions or other factors cause a reduction in rounds played. ú Like other apparel manufacturers, the Company must correctly anticipate and help direct fashion trends within its industry. The Company’s results of operations and financial position would suffer if the Company develops fashions or styles that are not well received in any season. In the past, the Company has developed fashions and styles that were not well received by consumers, resulting in slower than anticipated sell-through of the Company’s products which required significant markdown allowances that materially impaired the Company’s financial position and adversely affected the results of operations. The Company may experience similar circumstances in the future. ú The Company is party to a multi-year licensing agreement to design, source and sell Callaway Golf apparel primarily in the United States, Europe and Canada. The Company must correctly anticipate the fashion trends and demand for these product lines. The Company’s results of operations would suffer if the Company develops fashions or styles for the Callaway Golf apparel product line that are not well received in any season. In the past, the Company has developed fashions and styles that were not well received by consumers, resulting in slower than anticipated sell-through of the Company’s products which required significant markdown allowances that materially impaired the Company’s financial position and adversely affected the results of operations. The Company may experience similar circumstances in the future. ú The market for golf apparel and sportswear is extremely competitive. The Company has several strong competitors that are better capitalized. Outside the green grass market, the Company’s market share is not as significant. Price competition or industry consolidation could weaken the Company’s competitive position. 8 Table of Contents ú In recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership changes. In the future, retailers in the United States and in foreign markets may undergo changes that could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the department store retail industry, including: consolidating their operations; undergoing restructurings, undergoing reorganizations; or realigning their affiliations. The Company’s business could be materially affected by these changes in the future. ú The Company is increasingly selling its products to customers in the department store retail channel. If the department stores do not sell-through the Company’s products in a timely manner, they may request markdown allowances from the Company or delay future purchases of the Company’s products causing the Company to lose margin or sales. The Company’s products have experienced less than anticipated sell-through in the past and may do so again in the future. ú The Company’s results of operations would continue to be adversely affected if the Company’s embroidery and distribution center (the “EDC”) does not operate as anticipated or further functionality problems are encountered. Any such operational problems may cause the Company to incur additional expense, experience delays in customer shipments, or require the Company to lease additional distribution space. In addition, the Company’s results of operations could be negatively impacted if future sales volume growth does not reach expected levels and the facility’s additional distribution capacity is not fully utilized, or if the Company does not achieve projected cost savings from the distribution facilities as soon as, or in the amounts, anticipated. ú The Company maintains high levels of inventory to support its AuthenticsTM program as well as the Callaway Golf apparel basics. Additional products, greater sales volume, and customer trends toward increased “at-once” ordering may require increased inventory. Disposal of excess prior season inventory is an ongoing part of the Company’s business, and write-downs of inventories have materially impaired the Company’s financial position in the past and may do so again in the future. Particular inventories may be subject to multiple write-downs if the Company’s initial reserve estimates for inventory obsolescence or lack of sell-through prove to be too low. These risks increase as inventory increases. ú In July 2004, the Company acquired Gekko, a leading designer, producer and distributor of headwear and apparel under The Game® and Kudzu® brands. The Company must successfully integrate the acquisition to realize the expected growth in new, quality channels of distribution for the Ashworth and Callaway Golf apparel brands as well as further growth from The Game and Kudzu brands’ sales into the Company’s current distribution channels. The Company’s results of operations would be adversely affected if it fails to successfully integrate the new operations as anticipated or the expected synergies are not realized. ú The outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”) previously affected travel to countries where the Company’s products are manufactured. Visiting manufacturers in the affected countries is an important part of the product development process for the Company. If travel to these countries is again restricted by a similar outbreak of SARS, the Avian Flu, or other life threatening communicable diseases, the Company’s product development process and reputation as a designer and manufacturer of innovative products may be adversely affected, its international production and shipments may be limited, and the Company could lose sales. ú The Company relies on foreign contractors to manufacture various products. If these contractors deliver goods late or fail to meet the Company’s quality standards, the Company could lose sales and its reputation could suffer. The Company’s contractors have delivered goods late and have failed to meet the Company’s quality standards in the past and could do so again in the future. 9 Table of Contents ú Certain of the Company’s customers require the Company to comply with specified fair labor standards at its facilities and the facilities of its contractors. Should the Company or its contractors fail to adhere to such standards, the Company could lose sales and its reputation may be damaged. ú The Company’s domestic and foreign suppliers rely on readily available supplies of raw materials at reasonable prices. If these raw materials are in short supply or are only available at inflated prices, the contractors may be unable to deliver the Company’s products in sufficient quantities or at expected prices and the Company could lose sales and have lower gross profit margins. ú An increase in terrorist activities, as well as the continued conflicts around the world, would likely adversely affect the level of demand for the Company’s products as customers’ and consumers’ attention and interest are diverted from golf and fashion and become focused on these events and the economic, political, and public safety issues and concerns associated with them. Also, such events could adversely affect the Company’s ability to manage its supply and delivery of product from foreign contractors. If such events caused a significant disruption in domestic or international shipments, the Company’s ability to fulfill customer orders also would be materially adversely affected. ú If economic conditions deteriorate, the ability of the Company’s customers to pay current obligations may be adversely impacted and the Company may experience an increase in delinquent and uncollectible accounts. ú The Company is from time to time party to claims and litigation proceedings. Such matters include the specific litigation described in this report and other litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. See “Legal Proceedings,” below. Such matters are subject to many uncertainties and the Company cannot predict with assurances the outcomes and ultimate financial impacts of them. There can be no guarantees that actions that have been or may be brought against the Company in the future will be resolved in the Company’s favor or that insurance carried by the Company will be available or paid to cover any litigation exposure. Any losses resulting from settlements or adverse judgments arising out of these claims could materially and adversely affect the Company’s consolidated financial position and results of operations. ú Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect the Company’s ability to sell its products in foreign markets and the value in U.S. dollars of revenues received in foreign currencies. The Company’s revenues from its international segment may also be adversely affected by taxation and laws or policies of the foreign countries in which the Company has operations, as well as laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, investment and taxation. ú The Company recently signed purchase contracts for a new Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system to be installed over the next two fiscal years. The Company may experience difficulties in implementing the new ERP system and other related systems that could disrupt its ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of the results of its consolidated operations, its financial position and cash flows. Any disruptions or difficulties that may occur in connection with implementing the new ERP system or any future systems could also adversely affect the Company’s ability to complete the evaluation of our internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. System failure or malfunctioning may result in disruption of operations and the inability to process transactions and could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. ú In designing and evaluating our internal controls over financial reporting, we recognize that any internal control or procedure, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving desired control objectives, and management is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the 10 Table of Contents cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Except for the material weakness discussed in “Item 9. Controls and Procedures” below, we believe that our internal controls over financial reporting currently provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives. However, no system of internal controls can be designed to provide absolute assurance of effectiveness. See “Item 9. Controls and Procedures” below. A material failure of internal controls over financial reporting could materially impact our reported financial results and the market price of our stock could significantly decline. Additionally, adverse publicity related to a material failure of internal controls over financial reporting could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. ú The Company’s success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to protect and preserve our intellectual property, including copyrights, trademarks, patents, service marks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property. We rely on the intellectual property, patent, trademark and copyright laws of the United States and other countries to protect our proprietary rights. However, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without our authorization, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. The use of our intellectual property or similar intellectual property by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, causing us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business. If it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect these rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly and we may not prevail. ú The Company is heavily dependent on its current executive officers and management. The loss of any of our executive officers or management or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel could delay the development and introduction of new products, harm our ability to sell our products, damage the image of our brands and/or prevent us from executing our business strategy. ú One of the key elements of the Company’s marketing strategy has been to obtain endorsements from professional golfers, which contributes to the authenticity and image of our brands. We believe that this strategy has been an effective means of gaining brand exposure worldwide and creating broad appeal for our products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our existing relationships with these individuals in the future or that we will be able to attract new athletes to endorse our products. ú The apparel, sporting goods and footwear industries have historically been subject to substantial cyclical variations. As domestic and international economic conditions change, trends in discretionary consumer spending become unpredictable and could be subject to reductions due to uncertainties about the future. When consumers reduce discretionary spending, purchases of specialty apparel may decline. A general reduction in consumer discretionary spending due to a recession in the domestic and/or international economies or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. ú As a result of its international business, the Company is exposed to increased risks inherent in conducting business outside of the United States. In addition to foreign currency risks, these risks include (i) increased difficulty in protecting the Company’s intellectual property rights and trade secrets, (ii) unexpected government action or changes in legal or regulatory requirements, (iii) social, economic or political instability, (iv) the effects of any anti-American sentiments on the Company’s brands or sales of the Company’s products, (v) increased difficulty in controlling and monitoring foreign operations from the United States, including increased difficulty in identifying and recruiting qualified personnel for its foreign operations, and (vi) increased exposure to interruptions in air carrier or shipping services, which interruptions could significantly adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain timely delivery of components from international suppliers or to timely deliver its products to international customers. Although the Company believes the benefits of conducting business internationally outweigh these risks, any significant adverse change in circumstances or conditions could have a significant adverse effect upon the Company’s operations and its financial performance and condition. 11 Table of Contents ú Borrowings against the line of credit under our loan agreement are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows would decrease. The Company’s line of credit agreement contains certain financial covenants based on the Company’s performance. If the Company’s financial performance results in any of these covenants being violated, the lenders may choose to require repayment of the outstanding borrowings sooner than currently required by the agreement. ú The Company has received a notice from Knightspoint Partners II, LLC (“Knightspoint”) dated December 22, 2005 (the “Knightspoint Notice”) indicating that Knightspoint intends to present a number of proposals at the Company’s Annual Meeting in 2006. The Company is currently evaluating the proposals in the Knightspoint Notice. If the Company were to oppose the Knightspoint proposals as not in the Company’s or stockholders’ best interest, management would be forced to expend substantial time and energy which may divert management’s attention from the operations of the Company, as well as incur significant additional costs, including fees for the retention of legal and financial advisors, that would negatively impact the Company’s operating results and financial condition. At this time, management can not estimate the impact that such proposals will have on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 