Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider, among other factors, the risks listed below. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from U.S. Government contracts, which are dependent on continued political support and funding and are subject to termination by the U.S. Government at any time. The majority of our total annual revenues and our firm backlog at December 31, 2010 was derived from U.S. Government contracts. Most of our U.S. Government contracts are funded incrementally on a year-to-year basis and are subject to uncertain future funding levels. As a result, our direct and indirect contracts with the U.S. Government may be terminated or suspended by the U.S. Government or its prime contractors at any time, with or without cause. There can be no assurance that U.S. Government contracts will not be terminated or suspended in the future, or that contract suspensions or terminations will not result in unreimbursable expenses or charges that could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Key human space initiatives, missile defense programs, and other space programs must compete with other programs for consideration during the federal budgeting and appropriation process, and support and funding for any U.S. Government program may be influenced by general economic conditions, political considerations and other factors. A decline in U.S. Government support and funding for programs in which we participate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We are subject to a number of domestic and international laws, regulations and restrictions, the non-compliance with which may expose us to adverse consequences. As a government contractor, we are subject to extensive and complex U.S. Government procurement laws and regulations, including the Procurement Integrity Act and the False Claims Act. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions, civil or criminal penalties, injunctions and/or administrative sanctions such as suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. Government. In addition, our international business subjects us to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and regulations relating to import-export control. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions such as suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. Government or suspension of our export privileges. Our business could be adversely affected by adverse audit findings by the U.S. Government. U.S. Government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency (“DCAA”) and various agency Inspectors General, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. Charging practices relating to labor, research and development, and other costs that may be charged directly or indirectly to U.S. Government contracts are often scrutinized to determine that such costs are allowable under U.S. Government contracts and furthermore that such costs are reasonable. Any costs determined to be unallowable or unreasonable may not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed may be subject to repayment. If the amount of such costs were significant, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. For example, we expect to recover a significant portion of our research and development expenses, including those related to the Taurus II development program, through billings under certain of our government contracts in accordance with applicable regulations, but there can be no guarantee that this will occur. Our inability to recover a significant portion of such expenses could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The above-mentioned agencies also review the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation, accounting and information systems. Adverse findings relating to our systems could result in the U.S. Government customer withholding a percentage of payments and also could impact our ability to win new U.S. Government contract awards or option exercises. Responding to governmental audits, inquiries or investigations may involve significant expense and divert management attention. Also, if an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were to be made against us. 13 Table of Contents Termination of our contracts could materially adversely affect our future financial results. All of our direct and indirect contracts with the U.S. Government or its prime contractors may be terminated or suspended at any time, with or without cause, for the convenience of the government. U.S. Government contract awards also may be subject to bid protests, which may result in a contract award being rescinded or subject to reprocurement. In addition, our commercial satellite contracts also give the customer the right to unilaterally terminate the contract. For these reasons, we cannot assure you that all of our backlog will ultimately be recognized in revenues. The loss of future revenue, incurrence of unreimbursed costs, or liability to the U.S. Government or our commercial customers in connection with other cancelled or rescinded contracts could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We are dependent on a single U.S. Government contract for a large percentage of our revenues and backlog. Our CRS contract to resupply the International Space Station accounted for approximately 21% of our revenues in 2010, and we expect it to continue to account for a material percentage of our revenues in 2011. Given the uncertainty surrounding future government spending and the right of U.S. Government customers to terminate our contracts for convenience, there can be no assurance that the current backlog for this contract ultimately will be recognized in revenues. The cancellation of our CRS contract for any reason, including as a result of reductions in appropriations or the failure to achieve milestones due to technical issues or delays, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We use estimates in accounting for many contracts. Changes in our estimates could materially adversely affect our future financial results. Contract accounting requires judgments in assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion may be complex and is subject to many variables. For example, assumptions have to be made regarding the labor hours, labor rates and costs of materials and subcontracts. Incentives, penalties and award fees related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenues and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated realization. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is possible that materially different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions were used or if the underlying circumstances or estimates were to change or ultimately be different from our expectations. Changes or inaccuracies in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may have a material adverse effect upon future period financial results. 14 Table of Contents We may not receive full payment for our satellites or launch services and we could incur penalties in the event of a failure or malfunction or if our satellites are not delivered or our rockets are not launched on schedule. Some of our satellite contracts provide for performance-based payments to be made to us after the satellite is in-orbit over periods that may be as long as 15 years. Additionally, some satellite contracts require us to refund cash to the customer if performance criteria, which cover periods of up to 15 years, are not satisfied. Certain contracts include payment milestones that are contingent upon a successful launch. While our practice is generally to procure insurance policies that we believe would indemnify us for satellite and launch success incentive fees that are not earned and for performance refund obligations, insurance may not continue to be available on economical terms, if at all. Further, we may elect not to procure insurance. In addition, some of our satellite and launch contracts require us to pay penalties in the event that satellites are not delivered, or a launch does not occur, on a timely basis, or to refund cash receipts to the customer if a contract is terminated for default. Our failure to earn performance incentives, or a requirement that we refund cash to the customer or pay delay penalties, could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Contract cost overruns could materially adversely impact our financial results. We provide our products and services primarily through cost-reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. Cost overruns, if significant, could materially adversely impact our financial results: · Under cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable incurred costs plus a fee, which may be fixed or variable (based, entirely or in part, on the customer’s evaluation of our performance under the contract). There is no guarantee as to the amount of fee, if any, that we will be awarded under a cost-reimbursable contract with a variable fee. In addition, the price on a cost-reimbursable contract is based on allowable costs incurred, but generally is subject to customer funding limitations. If we incur costs in excess of the amount funded, we may not be able to recover such costs. · Under fixed-price contracts, our customers pay us for work performed and products shipped based on an agreed-upon price, without adjustment for any cost overruns. Therefore, we generally bear all of the financial risk as a result of increased costs on these contracts, although some of this risk may be passed on to subcontractors. Some of our fixed-price contracts provide for sharing of unexpected cost increases or savings realized within specified limits and may provide for adjustments in price depending on actual contract performance. We bear the entire risk of cost overruns in excess of the negotiated maximum amount of unexpected costs to be shared. Our growth strategy depends on major new product development initiatives involving significant technical challenges. We are incurring substantial expenses relating to the design and development of the Taurus II launch vehicle. We also are developing the Cygnus advanced maneuvering spacecraft, and considering other product enhancements. The development of new or enhanced products is a 15 Table of Contents complex and uncertain process that requires the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends and can require a significant amount of time and expense to complete. New product development programs often experience schedule delays and cost overruns. Our inability to successfully complete our new product development initiatives on schedule and within budget, or to obtain market acceptance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Mid-Atlantic Regional Spaceport (“MARS”) is designing and constructing a new launch site for the Taurus II launch vehicle at NASA’s Wallops Flight Facility. MARS’ inability to complete the launch site on schedule could result in delays of Taurus II launches, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to penetrate and retain markets for our existing products and to continue to conceive, design, manufacture and market new products on a cost-effective and timely basis. We may experience design, manufacturing, marketing and other difficulties that could delay or prevent the development, introduction or acceptance of new products and enhancements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve the technological advances necessary to remain competitive and profitable, that new products will be developed and manufactured on schedule or on a cost-effective basis or that our existing products will not become technologically obsolete. Our failure to predict accurately the needs of our customers and prospective customers, and to develop products or product enhancements that address those needs, may result in the loss of current customers or the inability to secure new customers. There can be no assurance that our products will be successfully developed or manufactured or that they will perform as intended. Most of the products we develop and manufacture are technologically advanced and sometimes include novel systems that must function under highly demanding operating conditions. From time to time, we experience product failures, cost overruns in developing and manufacturing our products, delays in delivery and other operational problems. We may experience some product and service failures, schedule delays and other problems in connection with our launch vehicles, satellites, advanced space systems and other products in the future. Some of our satellite and launch services contracts impose monetary penalties on us for delays and for performance failures, which penalties could be significant. In addition to any costs resulting from product warranties or required remedial action, product failures or significant delays may result in increased costs or loss of revenues due to the postponement or cancellation of subsequently scheduled operations or product deliveries and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Negative publicity from product failures may also impair our ability to win new contracts. 16 Table of Contents If our key suppliers fail to perform as expected, we may experience delays and cost increases, and our financial results may be materially adversely impacted. We purchase a significant percentage of our subassemblies and instruments from domestic and foreign suppliers. We also obtain from the U.S. Government parts and equipment used in the production of our products or the provision of our services. In addition, we rely on sole source suppliers for most rocket motors and engines we use on our launch vehicles. If our suppliers fail to perform as expected or encounter financial difficulties, we may have difficulty replacing them in a timely or cost effective manner. As a result, we may experience delays that could result in additional costs, a customer terminating our contract for default, or damage to our customer relationships, causing our financial results to be materially adversely impacted. In addition, negative publicity from any failure of one of our products as a result of a failure by a key supplier could damage our reputation and prevent us from winning new contracts. Our international business is subject to risks that may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We sell certain of our communications satellites and other products to non-U.S. customers. We also procure certain key product components from non-U.S. vendors. International contracts are subject to numerous risks that may have a material adverse effect on our financial results, including: · political and economic instability in foreign markets; · restrictive trade policies of the U.S. Government and foreign governments; · inconsistent product regulation by foreign agencies or governments; · the imposition of product tariffs and burdens; · the cost of complying with a variety of U.S. and international laws and regulations, including regulations relating to import-export control; · the complexity and necessity of using non-U.S. representatives and consultants; · the inability to obtain required U.S. or foreign country export licenses; and · foreign currency exposure. We operate in a regulated industry, and our inability to secure or maintain the licenses, clearances or approvals necessary to operate our business could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our ability to pursue our business activities is regulated by various agencies and departments of the U.S. Government and, in certain circumstances, the governments of other countries. Commercial space launches, the reentry of our Cygnus maneuvering spacecraft during the COTS demonstration mission and operation of our L-1011 aircraft require licenses from certain agencies of the DoT, including the Federal Aviation Administration. Launches of our Taurus II rocket, which will use modified Russian rocket engines, require a Russian government license. Our classified programs require that certain of our facilities and certain of our employees maintain appropriate security clearances. 17 Table of Contents Exports of our products, services and technical information generally require licenses from the DoS or the DoC. In addition, exports of products from our international suppliers may require export licenses from the governments of other countries. We have a number of international customers and suppliers. Our inability to secure or maintain any necessary licenses or approvals or significant delays in obtaining such licenses or approvals could negatively impact our ability to compete successfully in international markets, and could result in an event of default under certain of our international contracts. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our future efforts to secure and maintain necessary licenses, clearances or other U.S. or foreign government regulatory approvals. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face significant competition in each of our lines of business and many of our competitors possess substantially more resources than we do. Many of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater resources than we do. Furthermore, it is possible that other domestic or foreign companies or governments, some with greater experience in the space and defense industry and many with greater financial resources than we possess, could seek to produce products or services that compete with our products or services, including new launch vehicles using new technology which could render our launch vehicles less competitively viable. Some of our foreign competitors currently benefit from, and others may benefit in the future from, subsidies from or other protective measures by their home countries. Our financial covenants may restrict our operating activities. Our credit facility contains certain financial and operating covenants, including, among other things, certain coverage ratios, as well as limitations on our ability to incur debt, make dividend payments, make investments, sell all or substantially all of our assets and engage in mergers and consolidations and certain acquisitions. These covenants may restrict our ability to pursue certain business initiatives or certain acquisition transactions. In addition, failure to meet any of the financial covenants in our credit facility could cause an event of default under and/or accelerate some or all of our indebtedness, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The loss of our executive officers or a failure to retain other key personnel could materially adversely affect our operations. The departure of any of our executive officers or a failure to retain other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We require experienced and highly skilled engineers and scientists, and personnel with security clearances to perform our contracts and further our business objectives. The competition and demand for such skilled and experienced employees is great, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to attract and retain key personnel. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 18 Table of Contents The anticipated benefits of future acquisitions may not be realized. From time to time we may evaluate potential acquisitions that we believe would enhance our business. The anticipated benefits of completed business acquisitions may not be fully realized if we are unable to successfully integrate the acquired operations, technologies and personnel into our organization. We are subject to environmental regulation. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to the operation of our business, including those governing pollution, the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and the ownership and operation of real property. Such laws may result in significant liabilities and costs. There can be no assurance that our failure to comply with such laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business in the future. Our restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws, and Delaware law contain anti-takeover provisions that may adversely affect the rights of our stockholders. Our charter documents contain provisions which could have an anti-takeover effect, including: · our charter provides for a staggered Board of Directors as a result of which only one of the three classes of directors is elected each year; · any merger, acquisition or other business combination that is not approved by our Board of Directors must be approved by 66 2/3% of voting stockholders; · stockholders holding less than 10% of our outstanding voting stock cannot call a special meeting of stockholders; and · stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or submit proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which restrict the ability of current stockholders holding more than 15% of our voting shares to acquire us without the approval of 66 2/3% of the other stockholders. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control transaction. They could also have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for our common stock. As a result, these provisions may prevent our stock price from increasing substantially in response to actual or rumored takeover attempts. These provisions may also prevent changes in our management. Certain repurchase rights in our 2.4375% convertible senior subordinated notes could discourage a potential acquirer. We would be required to make an offer to repurchase our 2.4375% convertible senior subordinated notes upon the occurrence of a “fundamental change” of our company, which 19 Table of Contents includes a change of control in connection with a sale of the company. This repurchase right on the part of the holders of our notes could discourage a potential acquirer. Conversion of our 2.4375% convertible senior subordinated notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Upon conversion of our 2.4375% convertible senior subordinated notes, we will deliver in respect of each $1,000 principal amount of notes tendered for conversion (1) an amount in cash (“principal return”) equal to the lesser of (a) the principal amount of the converted notes and (b) the conversion value (such value equal to the conversion rate multiplied by the average price of our common shares over a 10 consecutive-day trading period) and (2) if the conversion value is greater than the principal return, an amount in cash or common stock, or a combination thereof (at our option) with a value equal to the difference between the conversion value and the principal return. Any common stock issued upon conversion of the notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 