Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider, among other factors, the risks listed below. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from U.S. Government contracts, which are dependent on continued political support and funding. The majority of our total annual revenues and our firm backlog at December 31, 2013 were derived from U.S. Government contracts. Most of our U.S. Government contracts are funded incrementally on a year-to-year basis and are subject to uncertain future funding levels. Furthermore, key human space initiatives, missile defense programs, and other space programs must compete with other programs for consideration during the federal budgeting and appropriation process, and support and funding for any U.S. Government program may be influenced by general economic conditions, political considerations and other factors. A decline in U.S. Government support and funding for programs in which we participate could result in contract terminations, delays in contract awards, the failure to exercise contract options, the cancellation of planned procurements and fewer new business opportunities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We are subject to a number of domestic and international laws, regulations and restrictions, the non-compliance with which may expose us to adverse consequences. As a government contractor, we are subject to extensive and complex U.S. Government procurement laws and regulations, including the Procurement Integrity Act and the False Claims Act. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions, civil or criminal penalties, injunctions and/or administrative sanctions such as suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. Government. In addition, our international business subjects us to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and regulations relating to import-export control. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions such as suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. Government or suspension of our export privileges, which could result in the termination of existing U.S. Government contracts, affect our ability to win new U.S. Government contracts, and impair our ability to serve foreign customers. Our business could be adversely affected by adverse audit findings by the U.S. Government. U.S. Government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency and various agency Inspectors General, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor's performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. Charging practices relating to labor, research and development, and other costs that may be charged directly or indirectly to U.S. Government contracts are often scrutinized to determine that such costs are allowable under U.S. Government contracts and furthermore that such costs are reasonable. Any costs determined to be unallowable or unreasonable may not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed may be subject to repayment. If the amount of such costs were significant, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. For example, we expect to recover a significant portion of our research and development expenses through billings under certain of our U.S. Government contracts in accordance with applicable regulations, but such billings could be reversed or rejected by the U.S. Government. Our inability to recover a significant portion of such expenses could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The above-mentioned agencies also review the adequacy of, and a contractor's compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor's purchasing, property, estimating, compensation, accounting and information systems. Adverse findings relating to our systems could result in the U.S. Government customer withholding a percentage of payments and also could impact our ability to win new U.S. Government contract awards or option exercises. Responding to government audits, inquiries or investigations may involve significant expense and divert management attention. Also, if an audit or investigation were to uncover improper or illegal activities, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of 13 Table of Contents payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were to be made against us. Termination of our contracts could materially adversely affect our backlog and our future financial results. Approximately 83% of our 2013 revenues were derived from direct or indirect contracts with the U.S. Government. All of our direct and indirect contracts with the U.S. Government or its prime contractors may be terminated or suspended at any time, with or without cause, for the convenience of the government. U.S. Government contract awards also may be subject to bid protests, which may result in a contract award being rescinded or subject to reprocurement. In addition, our commercial satellite contracts also give the customer the right to unilaterally terminate the contract. For these reasons, we cannot assure you that all of our backlog will ultimately be recognized in revenues. Termination or suspension of any of our significant U.S. Government contracts or termination of our commercial contracts could result in the loss of future revenues and unreimbursable expenses or charges that could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Furthermore, the termination of any such contracts for default could also have a material adverse effect on our reputation and ability to obtain new business in the future. We are dependent on a single U.S. Government contract for a large percentage of our revenues and backlog. Our CRS contract to deliver cargo to the ISS accounted for approximately 24% of our revenues in 2013, and we expect it to continue to account for a material percentage of our revenues in 2014. Given the uncertainty surrounding future government spending and the right of U.S. Government customers to terminate our contracts for convenience, there can be no assurance that the remaining backlog for this contract will ultimately be recognized in revenues. NASA could cancel our CRS contract for any reason, including as a result of reductions in appropriations or our failure to achieve milestones due to technical issues or delays. A cancellation of our CRS contract could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We use estimates in accounting for our contracts. Changes in our estimates could materially adversely affect our financial results. Contract accounting requires judgments in assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs and making assumptions related to schedule and technical issues. Due to the nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion may be complex and is subject to many variables. For example, we make assumptions regarding our performance under contracts, the labor hours, labor rates and costs of materials and subcontracts. Our assumptions regarding the timing and amounts of incentives, penalties, award fees and milestones related to performance on contracts involve a high degree of judgment and estimates by our management. These assumptions are important factors that impact the revenues and profits that we recognize. In the event of a change in total estimated contract revenue, cost or 14 Table of Contents profit, the cumulative effect of such change is recorded in the period the change in estimate occurs. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimates inherent in our accounting processes described above, it is possible that material adjustments to our financial results could be required if we determine, based on current facts and circumstances known to us, that our prior assumptions are no longer reasonable and need to be revised. We may not receive full payment for our satellites or launch services and we could incur penalties in the event of a failure or malfunction or if our satellites are not delivered or our rockets are not launched on schedule. Some of our satellite contracts provide for performance-based payments to be made to us after the satellite is in orbit over periods that may be as long as 15 years. Additionally, some satellite contracts require us to refund a portion of the contract price to the customer if performance criteria, which cover periods of up to 15 years, are not satisfied. Certain contracts include payment milestones that are contingent upon a successful launch. For example, approximately 25% of the contract value of our CRS contract is billable and collectible only upon the completion of launch and delivery milestones for each of eight CRS contract missions. As of December 31, 2013, we have recognized a total of $1.3 billion of revenues on this contract which has a total contract value of approximately $1.9 billion. If we do not successfully complete these launch and delivery milestones, we may be required to record significant revenue and profit reductions. While our practice is generally to procure insurance policies that we believe would indemnify us for satellite and launch success incentive fees or contract milestones that are not earned and for performance refund obligations, insurance may not be available on economical terms, if at all, for each of our satellite and launch programs. Further, in some cases, we may elect not to procure insurance. In addition, some of our satellite and launch contracts require us to pay penalties in the event that satellites are not delivered or a launch does not occur on a timely basis, or to refund cash receipts to the customer if a contract is terminated for default. Our failure to earn performance-based contract milestones, or a requirement that we refund cash to the customer or pay delay penalties, could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Contract cost overruns could materially adversely impact our financial results. We provide our products and services primarily through cost-reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. Cost overruns, if significant, could materially adversely impact our financial results: ● Under cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable incurred costs plus a fee, which may be fixed or variable (based, entirely or in part, on the customer's evaluation of our performance under the contract). There is no guarantee as to the amount of fee, if any, that we will be awarded under a cost-reimbursable contract with a variable fee. In addition, the price on a cost-reimbursable contract is based on allowable 15 Table of Contents costs incurred, but generally is subject to customer funding limitations. If we incur costs in excess of the amount funded, we may not be able to recover such costs in excess of the amount funded, we may not be able to recover such costs. ● Under fixed-price contracts, our customers pay us for work performed and products shipped based on an agreed-upon price, without adjustment for any cost overruns. Therefore, we generally bear all of the financial risk as a result of increased costs on these contracts, although some of this risk may be passed on to subcontractors. Some of our fixed-price contracts provide for sharing of unexpected cost increases or savings realized within specified limits and may provide for adjustments in price depending on actual contract performance. We bear the entire risk of cost overruns in excess of the negotiated maximum amount of unexpected costs to be shared. Our commercial contracts are generally fixed-price agreements. In addition, a significant percentage of our revenues from U.S. Government contracts over the last three years was derived from fixed-price agreements, and we believe this trend will continue in future years. Our success depends on our ability to penetrate and retain markets for our existing products and to continue to conceive, design, manufacture and market new products on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of new or enhanced products and the expansion of existing products into new markets are complex and uncertain strategies that require the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends and can require a significant amount of time and expense to accomplish. We may experience design, manufacturing, marketing and other difficulties that could delay or prevent the development, introduction or acceptance of new products and enhancements. In addition, new product development programs often experience schedule delays and cost overruns. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve the technological advances necessary to remain competitive and profitable, that new products will be developed and manufactured on schedule or on a cost-effective basis or that our existing products will not become technologically obsolete. Our failure to predict accurately the needs of our customers and prospective customers and to develop products or product enhancements that address those needs, may result in the loss of current customers or the inability to secure new customers. We have made a substantial investment in the design, development, production and marketing of the Antares medium-class launch vehicle and the Cygnus advanced maneuvering spacecraft, and we are considering other product enhancements. Future technical issues or launch failures associated with these products could impact the achievement of performance milestones, result in the cancellation of existing contracts or affect our ability to win new business in the medium-class launch services market, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Furthermore, as a result of technical issues with the AJ-26 rocket engines and the limited inventory of such engines, which are no longer being manufactured, it is uncertain whether the AJ-26 engine is a viable long-term option for our Antares launch vehicle. While we believe we have an adequate supply of such engines to satisfy our current Antares contracts and a limited number of additional missions, we have been exploring the feasibility of alternative propulsion 16 Table of Contents systems. Any transition to such an alternative would entail a material investment of time and financial resources. If we are unable to identify a viable alternative propulsion system and modify the Antares launch vehicle in a timely and economical manner, it could limit our long-term ability to compete in the medium-class launch services market. There can be no assurance that our products will be successfully developed or manufactured or that they will perform as intended. Most of the products we develop and manufacture are technologically advanced and sometimes include novel systems that must function under highly demanding operating conditions. From time to time, we experience product failures, cost overruns in developing and manufacturing our products, delays in delivery and other operational problems. We have experienced product and service failures, schedule delays and other problems in connection with certain of our launch vehicles, satellites, advanced space systems and other products, and may have similar occurrences in the future. Some of our satellite and launch services contracts impose monetary penalties on us for delays and for performance failures, which penalties could be significant. In addition to any costs resulting from product warranties or required remedial action, product failures or significant delays may result in increased costs or loss of revenues due to the postponement or cancellation of subsequently scheduled operations or product deliveries and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Negative publicity from a product failure could damage our reputation and impair our ability to win new contracts. We rely on sole source suppliers for a number of key components. We rely on sole source suppliers for a number of key components, including most of the rocket motors and engines we use on our launch vehicles. If we were unable to obtain such components in the future, due to supplier's financial difficulties or a supplier's failure to perform as expected, we could have difficulty procuring such components in a timely or cost effective manner. A disruption in the procurement of key components could result in substantial cost increases to us, significant delays in the execution of certain contracts or our inability to complete certain contracts, any of which could result in a materially adverse impact on our financial results. Our inability to execute contracts in a timely manner could also result in the termination of our contracts for default and could impair or damage our customer relationships. In addition, negative publicity from any failure of one of our products as a result of a failure by a key supplier could damage our reputation and could limit our ability to win new contracts. 17 Table of Contents Our international business is subject to risks that may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We sell certain of our communications satellites and other products to non-U.S. customers. We also procure certain key product components from non-U.S. vendors. International contracts are subject to numerous risks, including: · political and economic instability in foreign markets; · restrictive trade policies of the U.S. Government and foreign governments; · inconsistent product regulation by foreign agencies or governments; · the imposition of product tariffs and burdens; · the cost of complying with a variety of U.S. and international laws and regulations, including regulations relating to import-export control, and the risk of non-compliance; · the complexity and necessity of using non-U.S. representatives and consultants; · the inability to obtain required U.S. or foreign country export licenses; and · foreign currency exposure. Such risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial results by increasing our costs, causing material delays or subjecting us to penalties. We operate in a regulated industry, and our inability to secure or maintain the licenses, clearances or approvals necessary to operate our business could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our ability to pursue our business activities is regulated by various agencies and departments of the U.S. Government and, in certain circumstances, the governments of other countries. Commercial space launches, the reentry of our Cygnus maneuvering spacecraft during CRS operational missions, and operation of our L-1011 aircraft require licenses from certain agencies of the DoT, including the FAA. The use of modified Russian rocket engines on our Antares rocket requires a Russian government license, which we have obtained for our missions currently under contract. The FCC also requires licenses for radio communications during our rocket launches. Our classified programs require that certain of our facilities and certain of our employees maintain appropriate security clearances. Exports of our products, services and technical information generally require licenses from the DoS or the DoC. In addition, exports of products from our international suppliers may require export licenses from the governments of other countries. We have a number of international customers and suppliers. Our inability to secure or maintain any necessary licenses or approvals or significant delays in obtaining such licenses or approvals could negatively impact our ability to compete successfully in international markets, and could result in an event of default under certain of our international contracts. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our future efforts to secure and maintain necessary licenses, clearances or other U.S. or foreign government regulatory approvals. Our failure to do so could prevent or delay the launch of our rockets or delivery of 18 Table of Contents our other products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We face significant competition in each of our lines of business and many of our competitors possess substantially more resources than we do. Many of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater resources than we do. Furthermore, it is possible that other domestic or foreign companies or governments, some with greater experience in the space and defense industry and many with greater financial resources than we possess, could seek to produce products or services that compete with our products or services, including new launch vehicles using new technology which could render our launch vehicles less competitively viable. Some of our domestic and foreign competitors currently benefit from, and others may benefit in the future from, subsidies from or other protective measures by their home countries. Our financial covenants may restrict our operating activities. Our credit facility contains certain financial and operating covenants, including, among other things, certain coverage ratios, as well as limitations on our ability to incur debt, make dividend payments, make investments, sell all or substantially all of our assets and engage in mergers and consolidations and certain acquisitions. These covenants may restrict our ability to pursue certain business initiatives or certain acquisition transactions. In addition, failure to meet any of the financial covenants in our credit facility could cause an event of default under and/or accelerate some or all of our indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The loss of our executive officers or a failure to retain other key personnel could materially adversely affect our operations. The departure of any of our executive officers or a failure to retain other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We require experienced and highly skilled engineers and scientists, and personnel with security clearances to perform our contracts and further our business objectives. The competition and demand for such skilled and experienced employees is great, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to attract and retain key personnel. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our operations by hindering our ability to execute our contracts in a timely and satisfactory manner and to obtain new business. 19 Table of Contents The anticipated benefits of future acquisitions may not be realized. From time to time we may evaluate potential acquisitions that we believe would enhance our business. Potential acquisitions often require substantial management resources and could have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. We may not be able to integrate acquired operations without encountering difficulties, including the disruption of our ongoing business. The anticipated benefits of completed business acquisitions may not be fully realized if we are unable to successfully integrate the acquired operations, technologies and personnel into our organization. We are subject to environmental regulation. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to the operation of our business, including those governing pollution, the handling, storage, disposal and transportation of hazardous substances and the ownership and operation of real property. Such laws and regulations may result in significant liabilities and costs and the loss of permits required to conduct certain operations. There can be no assurance that a failure to comply with such laws and regulations would not have a material adverse effect on our business in the future. Our restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws, and Delaware law contain anti-takeover provisions that may adversely affect the rights of our stockholders. Our charter documents contain provisions which could have an anti-takeover effect, including: · our charter provides for a staggered Board of Directors as a result of which only one of the three classes of directors is elected each year; · any merger, acquisition or other business combination that is not approved by our Board of Directors must be approved by 66 2/3% of voting stockholders; · stockholders holding less than 10% of our outstanding voting stock cannot call a special meeting of stockholders; and · stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or submit proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which restrict the ability of current stockholders holding more than 15% of our voting shares to acquire us without the approval of 66 2/3% of the other stockholders. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control transaction. They could also have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for our common stock. As a result, these provisions may prevent our stock price from increasing substantially in response to actual or rumored takeover attempts. These provisions may also prevent changes in our management. 20 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 