Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. The Company’s business is subject to certain risks that could affect the value of the Company’s common stock. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: Risks Related to Our Business If our embroidery and distribution center fails to operate as anticipated, the Company could incur additional expense. The Company’s results of operations would continue to be adversely affected if the Company’s embroidery and distribution center (the “EDC”) does not operate as anticipated or functionality problems are encountered. 11 Table of Contents Any such operational problems may cause the Company to incur additional expense, experience delays in customer shipments, or require the Company to lease additional distribution space. In addition, the Company’s results of operations could be negatively impacted if future sales volume growth does not reach expected levels and the facility’s additional distribution capacity is not fully utilized, or if the Company does not achieve projected cost savings from the distribution facilities as soon as, or in the amounts, anticipated. System Failure may adversely affect the Company’s financial results. In December 2005, the Company signed purchase contracts for a new Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system to be installed over the next two fiscal years. The Company has recently completed the design phase of this project in its U.K. subsidiary and expects to implement the system there during the second half of fiscal 2007. The Company may experience difficulties in implementing the new ERP system and other related systems that could disrupt its ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of the results of its consolidated operations, its financial position and cash flows. Any disruptions or difficulties that may occur in connection with implementing the new ERP system or any future systems could also adversely affect the Company’s ability to complete the evaluation of its internal control over financial reporting and attestation activities pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. System failure or malfunctioning may result in disruption of operations and the inability to process transactions and could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. If we are unable to implement a successful transition in executive leadership and recruit and retain key personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to successfully develop and market our products may be harmed. Over the last 18 months, the Company has experienced a high level of turnover in its executive leadership along with other organizational changes that include the resignations of the Company’s chairman and chief executive officer, the chief operating officer and three chief financial officers, and the appointments of a new chairman, chief executive officer, president and executive vice president of green grass sales and merchandising who have been in their respective position for less than six months. The Company is currently in process of searching for a new chief financial officer. The new executive management team may experience difficulty transitioning into their new positions and effectively managing the Company’s business processes which may have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. The loss of any of the Company’s executive officers or management or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel could delay the development and introduction of new products, harm the Company’s ability to sell its products, damage the image of the Company’s brands and/or prevent the Company from executing its business strategy. Failure to determine adequate inventory levels may result in inventory write-downs that could harm our business. The Company maintains high levels of inventory to support its Authentics program as well as the Callaway Golf apparel basics. Additional products, greater sales volume, and customer trends toward increased “at-once” ordering may require increased inventory. Disposal of excess prior season inventory is an ongoing part of the Company’s business, and write-downs of inventories have materially impaired the Company’s financial position in the past and may do so again in the future. Particular inventories may be subject to multiple write-downs if the Company’s initial reserve estimates for inventory obsolescence or lack of sell-through prove to be too low. These risks increase as inventory increases. Failure to meet certain performance requirements could cause the Company to lose its exclusive licensing agreement with Callaway Golf. The Company is party to a multi-year licensing agreement to design, source and sell Callaway Golf apparel primarily in the United States, Europe and Canada. The agreement provides for, among other matters, minimum annual royalty payments and other sales and marketing commitments regardless of the Company’s 12 Table of Contents actual sales of Callaway - branded products. In addition, the Company must meet certain performance requirements for calendar years 2008 and 2009 in order to have the option to extend the licensing agreement for an additional five-year term after December 31, 2010. If the Company fails to meet these requirements, future agreements with Callaway Golf apparel may be discontinued and the Company's revenues would materially decline. Our products face intense competition. The market for golf apparel and sportswear is extremely competitive. The Company has several strong competitors, including Nike and Adidas, that have greater financial resources and larger market share and presence outside of the Company’s core green grass market. Price competition or industry consolidation could weaken the Company’s competitive position. Changes in the retail industry could cause a decrease in the number of retail stores in which our products are carried. In recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership changes. In the future, retailers in the United States and in foreign markets may undergo changes that could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the department store retail industry, including: consolidating their operations; undergoing restructurings or reorganizations; or realigning their affiliations. The Company’s business could be materially affected by these changes in the future. Sales of our product is dependent on the economy, popularity of golf, and weather conditions. Demand for the Company’s products may decrease significantly if the economy weakens, if the popularity of golf decreases, if consolidation of golf properties continues, or if unusual weather conditions or other factors cause a reduction in rounds played. Development of fashions or styles not well received could negatively impact our revenues and net profits. Like other apparel manufacturers, the Company must correctly anticipate and help direct fashion trends within its industry. The Company’s results of operations and financial position would suffer if the Company develops fashions or styles that are not well received in any season. In the past, the Company has developed fashions and styles that were not well received by consumers, resulting in slower than anticipated sell-through of the Company’s products which required significant markdown allowances that materially impaired the Company’s financial position and adversely affected the results of operations. The Company may experience similar circumstances in the future. Poor sell-through of the Company’s products could cause reduced revenues and net profit. The Company is increasingly selling its products to customers in the department store retail channel. If the department stores do not sell-through the Company’s products in a timely manner, they often request markdown allowances from the Company or delay future purchases of the Company’s products which could cause the Company to lose sales or receive lower margins. The Company’s products have experienced less than anticipated sell-through in the past and may do so again in the future. Our international sourcing involves inherent risks which could result in harm to our business. The Company does not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depends exclusively on independent third parties for the manufacture of all our products. Our products are manufactured to our specifications primarily by international manufacturers in Asian countries. Our largest single apparel and manufacturer operates in Thailand and Hong Kong and accounted for approximately 21% of our total production during fiscal 2006. Our largest single headwear manufacturer is located in China and accounted for approximately 50% of our total production during fiscal 2006. The inability of a manufacturer to ship orders of our products 13 Table of Contents in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a substantial reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Contractors may be unable to deliver the Company’s products if necessary raw materials are not available. The Company’s domestic and foreign suppliers rely on readily available supplies of raw materials at reasonable prices. If these raw materials are in short supply or are only available at inflated prices, the contractors may be unable to deliver the Company’s products in sufficient quantities or at expected prices and the Company could lose sales and have lower gross profit margins. Dealing with companies violating labor laws could disrupt our shipments and damage our reputation. The Company seeks to require our licensees and independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. While our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our staff periodically visits and monitors the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. The violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by the Company or one of our licensees, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s or licensee’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Non-compliance with the Fair Labor Association could cause lost sales in the collegiate market. The Company participates in the Fair Labor Association (FLA). The FLA is an organization of industry, non-government organizations, colleges and universities dedicated to improving working conditions worldwide. Participation in the FLA requires the Company to comply with the FLA Workplace Code of Conduct. If the Company fails to comply with the FLA Workplace Code of Conduct, it could lose its FLA accreditation. Loss of this accreditation could result in lost sales opportunities in the collegiate market and other markets concerned with fair labor practices. Failure to meet The Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism criteria could cause lengthy delays in pass-through of the Company’s products. The Company participates in The Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT). This is a voluntary program designed to improve international supply chain security for businesses, with respect to terrorism, through cooperative relationships between businesses and governments. The benefits of participation in the program include a reduced number of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) inspections, priority processing for CBP inspections and assignment of a C-TPAT specialist who will help enhance the Company’s supply chain security. In order to participate, the Company must be certified by meeting certain security criteria. If at any time the Company fails to meet the required criteria, it will be suspended or removed from the program until the deficiencies are corrected. Suspension from the program could expose the Company to lengthy delays in the pass-through of its product with CBP which could result in lost sales opportunities. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in higher costs and decreased margins. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect the Company’s ability to sell its products in foreign markets and the value in U.S. dollars of revenues received in foreign currencies. The Company’s revenues from its international segment may also be adversely affected by taxation and laws or policies of the foreign countries in which the Company has operations, as well as laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, investment and taxation. 14 Table of Contents The Company’s international operations involve inherent risk which could result in harm to our business. As a result of its international business, the Company is exposed to increased risks inherent in conducting business outside of the United States. In addition to foreign currency risks and increased difficulty in protecting the Company’s intellectual property rights and trade secrets, these risks include (i) unexpected government action or changes in legal or regulatory requirements, (ii) social, economic or political instability, (iii) the effects of any anti-American sentiments on the Company’s brands or sales of the Company’s products, (iv) increased difficulty in controlling and monitoring foreign operations from the United States, including increased difficulty in identifying and recruiting qualified personnel for its foreign operations, and (v) increased exposure to interruptions in air carrier or shipping services which could significantly adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain timely delivery of products from international suppliers or to timely deliver its products to international customers. Although the Company believes the benefits of conducting business internationally outweigh these risks, any significant adverse change in circumstances or conditions could have a significant adverse effect upon the Company’s operations and its financial performance and condition. The Company may be adversely affected by the financial health of our customers. If economic conditions deteriorate, the ability of the Company’s customers to pay current obligations may be adversely impacted and the Company may experience an increase in delinquent and uncollectible accounts. The Company is subject to periodic litigation which could result in unexpected expense of time and resources. The Company is from time to time party to claims and litigation proceedings. See “Legal Proceedings,” below. Such matters are subject to many uncertainties and the Company cannot predict with assurances the outcomes and ultimate financial impacts of them. There can be no guarantees that actions that have been or may be brought against the Company in the future will be resolved in the Company’s favor or that insurance carried by the Company will be available or paid to cover any litigation exposure. Any losses resulting from settlements or adverse judgments arising out of these claims could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial position and results of operations. A material failure of internal control over financial reporting could materially impact the Company’s financial results. In designing and evaluating its internal control over financial reporting, management recognizes that any internal control or procedure, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving desired control objectives, and management is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Management believes that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting currently provides reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives. However, no system of internal controls can be designed to provide absolute assurance of effectiveness. See “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures” below. A material failure of internal control over financial reporting could materially impact the Company’s reported financial results and the market price of its stock could significantly decline. Additionally, adverse publicity related to a material failure of internal control over financial reporting could have a negative impact on the Company’s reputation and business. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. The Company’s success depends to a significant degree upon its ability to protect and preserve its intellectual property, including copyrights, trademarks, patents, service marks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property. The Company relies on the intellectual property, patent, trademark and copyright laws of the 15 Table of Contents United States and other countries to protect its proprietary rights. However, the Company may be unable to prevent third parties from using its intellectual property without its authorization, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect its proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. The use of the Company’s intellectual property or similar intellectual property by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage the Company has developed, causing it to lose sales or otherwise harm its business. If it became necessary for the Company to resort to litigation to protect these rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly and the Company may not prevail. Failure to retain and continue to obtain high quality endorsers of our products could harm our business. One of the key elements of the Company’s marketing strategy has been to obtain endorsements from professional golfers and celebrities, which contributes to the authenticity and image of our brands. Management believes that this strategy has been an effective means of gaining brand exposure worldwide and creating broad appeal for our products. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain its existing relationships with these individuals in the future or that it will be able to attract new athletes and celebrities to endorse its products. Our business is affected by seasonality and consumer discretionary spending, which could result in fluctuations in out operating results. The apparel industry has historically been subject to substantial cyclical variations. As domestic and international economic conditions change, trends in discretionary consumer spending become unpredictable and could be subject to reductions due to uncertainties about the future. When consumers reduce discretionary spending, purchases of specialty apparel may decline. A general reduction in consumer discretionary spending due to a recession in the domestic and/or international economies or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Our Company borrows on a line of credit that is subject to variable rates of interest, which could negatively impact out net profitability. Borrowings against the line of credit under the Company’s loan agreement are at variable rates of interest and expose the Company to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, the Company’s debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and its net income and cash flows would decrease. The Company’s line of credit agreement contains certain financial covenants based on the Company’s performance. If the Company’s financial performance results in any of these covenants being violated, the lenders may choose to require repayment of the outstanding borrowings sooner than currently required by the agreement. Evolving regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and continuing uncertainty. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, recent SEC regulations and NASDAQ Global Market (“NASDAQ”) rules and regulations, are creating significant expenses and uncertainty for companies such as ours. These recent or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, management intends to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management 16 Table of Contents and Board of Directors time and attention from revenue-generating activities and operational oversight to compliance activities. If the Company’s efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, regulatory authorities or others may initiate legal proceedings against the Company and the Company may be adversely impacted. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may affect the Company’s reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on the Company’s reported results and may even affect its reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practices have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect the Company’s reported financial results or the way it conducts its business. For example, changes have been approved by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, that require that the Company record compensation expense in its statements of operations for equity compensation instruments, including employee and director stock options, using the fair value method. Although there was no change in the Company’s total cash flows, the reported financial results beginning in the first quarter of 2006 were negatively impacted by this accounting change. Other potential changes in existing taxation rules related to stock options and other forms of equity compensation could also have a significant negative effect on the Company’s reported results. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our Company may be forced to expend substantial time and other resources to oppose shareholder nominees for our Board of Directors or other proposals that we believe are not in the best interest of our Company. During 2006, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with a stockholder group led by Knightspoint Partners II, L.P. (collectively, the “Knightspoint Group”). As part of the settlement, the Company established a special committee of five directors to oversee the exploration of a range of strategic alternatives to enhance shareholder value, appointed two of Knightspoint Group’s proposed candidates to the Board of Directors and agreed to add a third independent director, to be mutually agreed upon by Knightspoint Group and the Company, as soon as practicable. Should a shareholder or group of shareholders submit nominees for our Board of Directors or other proposals that we believe are not in the best interests of the Company or its stockholders, management would be forced to expend substantial time and energy which may divert management’s attention from the operations of the Company, as well as incur significant additional costs, including fees for the retention of legal and financial advisors, that may negatively impact the Company’s operating results and financial condition. Our stock price has been volatile, and an investment in our stock could suffer a significant decline in value. The market price of the Company’s common stock has been volatile and has fluctuated substantially in the past. For example, between October 31, 2005 and October 31, 2006, the closing price of the Company’s common stock, as reported on NASDAQ, has ranged from a low of $6.36 to a high of $10.25. The Company expects its common stock to continue to be subject to such fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: ú changes in the level of competition, such as would occur if one of the Company’s larger and better financed competitors introduced better designed or lower priced products to compete with the Company’s product lines; ú changes in economic conditions in the Company’s domestic and international markets, such as economic downturns, reduced consumer demand, inflation and currency fluctuations; ú changes in sales levels, since a significant portion of the Company’s costs are fixed costs with the result that relatively higher sales could likely increase profitability but relatively lower sales would not reduce costs by the same proportion, and hence could cause operating losses; 17 Table of Contents ú lower than expected consumer demand, whether as a result poorly received product lines or otherwise; ú the Company’s failure to achieve, or changes in, financial estimates by securities analysts and comments or opinions about the Company by securities analysts or major stockholders; ú additions or departures of our key personnel; ú sales of the Company’s common stock and limited daily trading volume; and ú economic and other external factors, disasters or crises. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against the Company could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. Future sales by existing stockholders could depress the market price of the Company’s common stock. Sales of the Company’s common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could negatively impact the market price of its common stock. As of October 31, 2006: ú the Company had approximately 14.5 million shares of its common stock issued in registered offerings and freely tradable in the public markets; ú the Company had approximately 0.8 million shares of its common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options under its equity incentive plan at a weighted average exercise price of $8.12, for stock options; and ú the Company had in effect registration statements under the Securities Act of 1933 registering approximately 1.9 million shares of common stock reserved under its equity incentive plan. The Company is unable to estimate the number of shares of its common stock that may actually be resold in the public market since this will depend on the market price for its common stock, the individual circumstances of the sellers and other factors. The Company also has a number of institutional stockholders that own significant blocks of its common stock. If one or more of these stockholders were to sell large portions of their holdings in a relatively short time, for liquidity or other reasons, the prevailing market price of the Company’s common stock could be negatively affected. Anti-takeover devices may prevent a sale, or changes in the management, of the Company. The Company has in place several anti-takeover devices, including a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a sale, or changes in the management, of the Company. For example, the Company’s bylaws require stockholders to give written notice of any proposal or director nomination to the Company within a specified period of time prior to any stockholder meeting. The Company does not pay dividends and this may negatively affect the price of its stock. The Company has not paid dividends on its common stock and does not anticipate paying dividends on its common stock in the foreseeable future. The future price of the Company’s common stock may be adversely impacted because it has not paid and does not anticipate paying dividends. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 