ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investments in Parkvale's common stock involve risk. The following discussion highlights risks management believes are material for our company, but does not necessarily include all risks that Parkvale may face. THE MARKET PRICE OF PARKVALE COMMON STOCK MAY FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY IN RESPONSE TO A NUMBER OF FACTORS, INCLUDING: - changes in securities analysts' estimates of financial performance - volatility of stock market prices and volumes - changes in market valuations of similar companies - changes in interest rates since net interest income comprises the majority of our revenue and is significantly influenced by changes in interest rates - new products or services offered in the banking and/or financial services industries - variations in quarterly or annual operating results - litigation - regulatory actions including new laws and regulations and continued compliance with existing laws and regulation - changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies IF PARKVALE DOES NOT ADJUST TO CHANGES IN THE FINANCIAL SERVICES INDUSTRY, ITS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE MAY SUFFER. Parkvale's ability to maintain its history of favorable financial performance and return on investment to shareholders will depend in part on its ability to expand its scope of available financial services to its customers. In addition to other banks, competitors include security dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, and finance and insurance companies. The increasingly competitive environment is, in part, a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. FUTURE GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION AND LEGISLATION COULD LIMIT OUR GROWTH. Parkvale is subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern nearly every aspect of our operations. Changes to these laws could affect the ability to deliver or expand services and diminish the value of our business. See "Regulation" for additional information. INTEREST RATE VOLATILITY COULD HARM RESULTS OF OPERATION. Parkvale's results of operations depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investment securities, and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. Interest rates are beyond our control, and they fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits and borrowings. Although increases in interest rates would result in additional interest income from each new loan made or serviced, the number of new loans is likely to decrease as interest rates rise. Any revenue reductions from fewer loans and increased interest expense paid in connection with borrowed funds and deposits may not be offset by the higher income as a result of increased interest rates. 26 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 