Risk Factors. Investments in Parkvale’s common stock involve risk. The following discussion highlights risks which management believes are material for the Company, but does not necessarily include all risks that Parkvale may face. The market price of Parkvale common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including: • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of financial performance • volatility of stock market prices and volumes • changes in market valuations of similar companies • changes in interest rates since net interest income comprises the majority of our revenue and is significantly influenced by changes in interest rates • new products or services offered in the banking and/or financial services industries • variations in quarterly or annual operating results, including investment writedowns and loan loss provisions • litigation • regulatory actions including new laws and regulations and continued compliance with existing laws and regulations • changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies The market price of our common stock has declined recently. Consistent with the recent decline in stock prices generally, particularly for the stocks of financial institutions, the market price of the Parkvale common stock decreased from $23.61 per share at June 30, 2008 to $8.99 per share at June 30, 2009, and has further declined to $8.00 per share as of August 24, 2009. See the performance graph in Item 5 of this document comparing the total return performance of Parkvale common stock to certain indexes. We incurred a net loss for the year ended June 30, 2009. We incurred a net loss of $9.5 million in fiscal 2009, compared to net income of $12.8 million for fiscal 2008. After subtracting the dividends paid on the preferred stock issued in December 2008, the net loss applicable to our common stockholders in fiscal 2009 was $10.4 million, representing a decline of $23.2 million from fiscal 2008. The net loss in fiscal 2009 was primarily due to writedowns of $28.1 million on trust preferred securities, preferred stocks and other securities held in our investment portfolio. See Notes B and J of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. There are increased risks involved with commercial real estate, commercial business and consumer lending activities. Our lending activities include loans secured by commercial real estate and commercial business and consumer loans. We have increased our emphasis on originating commercial business and consumer loans in recent years, as well as commercial real estate loans to a lesser extent. We originated $104.5 million of these loans in fiscal 2009, representing 62.2% of total loan originations in fiscal 2009. In fiscal 2008, we originated $132.7 million of these loans, representing 69.6% of total loan originations and 47.7% of total originations and loan purchases in fiscal 2008. Commercial real estate, commercial business and consumer loans represent 30.7% of our loan portfolio at June 30, 2009. Commercial real estate, commercial business and consumer loans are generally considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single-family residential lending due to a variety of factors. As a result of the larger loan balances typically involved with commercial real estate and commercial business loans, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. At June 30, 2009, the 27 Table of Contents outstanding balances of our largest single commercial real estate loan and commercial business loan were $6.8 million and $1.7 million, respectively. While we have not had significant charge-offs of commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans in recent years, if one of these large loans were to become non-performing, it could have a significant impact on our results of operations. Consumer loans also involve greater risks than single-family residential loans, as it may be more difficult to recover collateral on those loans that are secured with higher loans to value and certain consumer loans are unsecured. In addition, the recent increases in the originations of commercial real estate, commercial business and consumer loans mean that our portfolio of these loans is significantly weighted with loans which are not well seasoned and are generally perceived to be more susceptible to adverse economic conditions than older loans. There are increased risks associated with our interest only loans. At June 30, 2009, our loan portfolio includes $220.7 million of loans that are interest only for the initial years of the loans, representing 11.6% of total assets at that date. The initial interest only years of the loans range from three to ten years. These loans have a higher degree of risk than fully amortizing loans, as the original loan balance does not decline during the interest only period of the loan. The risks associated with these loans are increased if housing prices decline after the loan is originated. We will be adversely affected if housing prices continue to decline. A decline in housing prices adversely affects us in several ways. First, we generally limit the loan-to-value ratio to 80% on newly originated residential first lien mortgage loans. A decline in housing prices after the loan is originated results in an increase in the loan-to-value ratio, which increases the risks associated with such loans. Second, borrowers who experience a decline in the market value of their house, particularly a decline below their outstanding mortgage balance, may be more likely to be delinquent in their loan payments and to experience a foreclosure on their mortgage. Third, a decline in housing prices generally leads to higher foreclosure rates, and the value of the properties we receive may be less than the outstanding mortgage balance. At June 30, 2009, we held $726.3 million of single family residential mortgage loans, representing 38.1% of our total assets. Fourth, the value of the mortgage-backed securities held by us, which are secured by residential properties, may continue to decline. At June 30, 2009, we held $241.1 million of mortgage-backed securities, representing 12.6% of our total assets. Fifth, our consumer loan portfolio includes a limited amount ($6.7 million) of outstanding home equity lines of credit in excess of 90% of collateral value at a competitive introductory rate, and the risks associated with these loans will increase if housing prices continue to decline. Sixth, a decline in housing prices is likely to lead to increased provisions for loan losses, which would adversely affect our net income. Our allowance for loans losses may not be adequate to cover probable losses. We have established an allowance for loan losses based upon various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, which we believe is adequate to offset probable losses on our existing loans. While we are not aware of any specific factors indicating a deficiency in the amount of our allowance for loan losses, in light of the current economic slowdown, the increased number of foreclosures and lower real estate values, one of the most pressing current issues faced by financial institutions is the adequacy of their allowance for loan losses. Federal bank regulators have increased their scrutiny of the level of the allowance for losses maintained by regulated institutions. Many banks and other lenders are reporting significantly higher provisions to their allowance for loan losses, which are materially impacting their earnings. In the event that we have to increase our allowance for loan losses, it would have an adverse effect on our results in future periods. At June 30, 2009, our allowance for loan losses amounted to $18.0 million, while our total loan portfolio was $1.1 billion at such date. Our business is geographically concentrated in the greater Pittsburgh and tri state area, which makes us vulnerable to downturns in the local economy. The majority of our loans are to individuals and businesses located generally in the greater Pittsburgh and tri state area, consisting of southwestern Pennsylvania, eastern Ohio and northern West Virginia. Regional economic conditions affect the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans. While economic conditions in our primary market area have been relatively good in recent periods compared to many areas of the country, 28 Table of Contents the concentration of our business operations makes us vulnerable to downturns in the local economy. Declines in local real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for the loans we make. Interest rate volatility could harm our results of operations. Parkvale’s results of operations depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investment securities and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. Interest rates are beyond our control and fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits and borrowings. Although increases in interest rates would result in additional interest income from each new loan made or serviced, the number of new loans is likely to decrease as interest rates rise. Any revenue reductions from fewer loans and increased interest expense paid in connection with borrowed funds and deposits may not be offset by the higher income as a result of increased interest rates, which would adversely affect our interest rate spread and net interest income. Changes in interest rates also can affect the value of our interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets, our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives, and the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. The fair value of our investment securities held to maturity is less than the carrying value of such securities. At June 30, 2009, the amortized cost or carrying value of our investment securities held to maturity was $504.0 million, or 26.4% of our total assets. At such date, the fair value of such securities was $438.7 million. Because the declines in the fair value of individual held-to-maturity securities are currently deemed to be temporary, the investment securities have not been written down to their fair value. The investment securities at June 30, 2009 include pooled and single issuer trust-preferred securities with an aggregate amortized cost of $77.7 million and an aggregate fair value of $40.9 million. As disclosed in Note B of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we are closely monitoring our investments in trust preferred securities in light of price volatility and deferred payments. In addition, our non-agency CMOs had an amortized cost of $176.1 million and a fair value of $145.5 million at June 30, 2009. Continued interest deferrals, defaults and/or price declines could result in a write-down of one or more of the trust preferred investments or other investment securities that have a fair value below amortized cost. If Parkvale does not adjust to changes in the financial services industry, its financial performance may suffer. Parkvale’s ability to maintain its history of favorable financial performance and return on investment to shareholders will depend in part on the ability to expand its scope of available financial services to customers. In addition to other banks, competitors include security dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, and finance and insurance companies. The increasingly competitive environment is, in part, a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. We face strong competition that may adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to vigorous competition in all aspects and areas of our business from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies, credit unions and other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies. As of June 30, 2009, we were the 12th largest institution, in terms of assets, with a significant presence in western Pennsylvania. We are significantly smaller than the ten largest depository institutions operating in western Pennsylvania, which had more than 86% of the total deposits in the greater Pittsburgh metropolitan area at June 30, 2008. The financial resources of these larger competitors may permit them to pay higher interest rates on their deposits and to be more aggressive in new loan originations. Certain of our competitors are larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources, more advanced technological capabilities, higher lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of commercial banking services. Competition from both bank and non-bank organizations will continue. 29 Table of Contents Future governmental regulation and legislation could limit our growth. Parkvale is subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern nearly every aspect of our operations, and the extensive regulation is intended primarily for the protection of depositors. Changes to these laws could affect the ability to deliver or expand services and diminish the value of our business. See “Regulation” for additional information. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 