Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in this Form 10-K and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. These risks can be impacted by factors beyond our control as well as by errors and omissions on our part. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, decrease our liquidity and impair our ability to operate our business. If cash on hand is insufficient to pay our obligations or margin calls as they come due at a time when we are unable to draw on our credit facility, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to generate cash is dependent on various factors. These factors include general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Certain of our long-term borrowings include provisions that impose minimum levels of working capital and equity, and impose limitations on additional debt. Our ability to satisfy these provisions can be affected by events beyond our control, such as the demand for and fluctuating price of grain. Although we are and have been in compliance with these provisions, noncompliance could result in default and acceleration of long-term debt payments. Many of our sales to our customers are executed on credit. Failure on our part to properly investigate the credit history of our customers or a deterioration in economic conditions may adversely impact our ability to collect on our accounts. A significant amount of our sales are executed on credit and are unsecured. Extending sales on credit to new and existing customers requires an extensive review of the customer’s credit history. If we fail to do a proper and thorough credit check on our customers, delinquencies may rise to unexpected levels. If economic conditions deteriorate, the ability of our customers to pay current obligations when due may be adversely impacted and we may experience an increase in delinquent and uncollectible accounts. Our grain and ethanol business uses derivative contracts to reduce volatility in the commodity markets. Non-performance by the counter-parties to those contracts could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial position. A significant amount of our grain and ethanol purchases and sales are done through forward contracting. In addition, the Company uses exchange traded and over-the-counter contracts to reduce volatility in changing commodity prices. A significant adverse change in commodity prices could cause a counter-party to one of our derivative contracts not to perform on their obligation. Changes in accounting rules can affect our financial position and results of operations. We have a significant amount of assets (railcars and related leases) that are off-balance sheet. If generally accepted accounting principles were to change to require that these items be reported in the financial statements, it would cause us to record a significant amount of assets and corresponding liabilities on our balance sheet which could have a negative impact on our debt covenants. Our business may be adversely affected by numerous factors outside of our control, such as seasonality and weather conditions, or other natural disasters or strikes. Many of our operations are dependent on weather conditions. The success of our Grain & Ethanol Group, for example, is highly dependent on the weather, primarily during the spring planting season and through the summer (wheat) and fall (corn and soybean) harvests. Additionally, wet and cold conditions during the spring adversely affect the sales and application of fertilizer sold through our Plant Nutrient Group. In 9 addition, application of fertilizer and other products by golf courses, lawn care operators and consumers could be affected, which could decrease demand in our Turf & Specialty Group. These same weather conditions also adversely affect purchases of lawn and garden products in our Retail Group, which generates a significant amount of its sales from these products during the spring season. The possibility of long term climate change can pose risks to the Company’s long term business performance. Climate change itself will likely have an effect only in very long term views of financial performance. The Company’s agricultural based businesses depend on the vibrancy of U.S. agriculture. Any major climatic changes which materially reduce crop yields will impact our grain trading businesses, and could alter the economics of our grain based ethanol business. These are changes which would likely only have an impact over many decades. If there were a disruption in available transportation due to natural disaster, strike or other factors, we may be unable to get raw materials inventory to our facilities or product to our customers. This could disrupt our operations and cause us to be unable to meet our customers’ demands. We face increasing competition and pricing pressure from other companies in our industries. If we are unable to compete effectively with these companies, our sales and profit margins would decrease, and our earnings and cash flows would be adversely affected. The markets for our products in each of our business segments are highly competitive. Competitive pressures in all of our businesses could affect the price of, and customer demand for, our products, thereby negatively impacting our profit margins and resulting in a loss of market share. Our grain business competes with other grain merchandisers, grain processors and end-users for the purchase of grain, as well as with other grain merchandisers, private elevator operators and cooperatives for the sale of grain. While we have substantial operations in the eastern corn-belt, many of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and compete in wider markets. Our ethanol business competes with other corn processors, ethanol producers and refiners, a number of whom are divisions of substantially larger enterprises and have substantially greater financial resources than we do. Smaller competitors, including farmer-owned cooperatives and independent firms consisting of groups of individual farmers and investors, will also compete with our ethanol business. Currently, international suppliers produce ethanol primarily from sugar cane and have cost structures that may be substantially lower than ours. The blenders’ credit allows blenders having excise tax liability to apply the excise tax credit against the tax imposed on the gasoline-ethanol mixture. Any increase in domestic or foreign competition could cause us to reduce our prices and take other steps to compete effectively, which could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial position. Our Rail Group is subject to competition in the rail leasing business, where we compete with larger entities that have greater financial resources, higher credit ratings and access to capital at a lower cost. Our Plant Nutrient Group competes with regional cooperatives, manufacturers, wholesalers and multi-state retail/wholesalers. Many of these competitors have considerably larger resources than us. Our Turf & Specialty Group competes with other manufacturers of lawn fertilizer and corncob processors that are substantially bigger and have considerably larger resources than us. Our Retail Group competes with a variety of retailers, primarily mass merchandisers and do-it-yourself home centers. The principle competitive factors in our Retail Group are location, product quality, price, service, reputation and breadth of selection. Some of our competitors are larger than us, have greater purchasing power and operate more stores in a wider geographical area. Certain of our business segments are affected by the supply and demand of commodities, and are sensitive to factors outside of our control. Adverse price movements could negatively affect our profitability and results of operations. 10 Our Grain & Ethanol and Plant Nutrient Groups buy, sell and hold inventories of various commodities, some of which are readily traded on commodity futures exchanges. In addition, our Turf & Specialty Group uses some of these same commodities as base raw materials in manufacturing golf course and landscape fertilizer. Unfavorable weather conditions, both local and worldwide, as well as other factors beyond our control, can affect the supply and demand of these commodities and expose us to liquidity pressures due to rapidly rising futures market prices. Changes in the supply and demand of these commodities can also affect the value of inventories that we hold, as well as the price of raw materials for our Plant Nutrient and Turf & Specialty Groups as we are unable to effectively hedge these commodities. Increased costs of inventory and prices of raw material would decrease our profit margins and adversely affect our results of operations. While we attempt to manage the risk associated with commodity price changes for our grain inventory positions with derivative instruments, including purchase and sale contracts, we are unable to offset 100% of the price risk of each transaction due to timing, availability of futures and options contracts and third party credit risk. Furthermore, there is a risk that the derivatives we employ will not be effective in offsetting the changes associated with the risks we are trying to manage. This can happen when the derivative and the underlying value of grain inventories and purchase and sale contracts are not perfectly matched. Our grain derivatives, for example, do not perfectly correlate with the basis pricing component of our grain inventory and contracts. (Basis is defined as the difference between the cash price of a commodity in our facility and the nearest exchange-traded futures price.) Differences can reflect time periods, locations or product forms. Although the basis component is smaller and generally less volatile than the futures component of our grain market price, significant unfavorable basis moves on a grain position as large as ours can significantly impact the profitability of the Grain & Ethanol Group and our business as a whole. In addition, we do not enter into derivative contracts to manage price risk on commodities other than grain and ethanol. Our futures, options and over-the-counter contracts are subject to margin calls. If there is a significant movement in the commodities market, we could incur a significant amount of liabilities, which would impact our liquidity. There is no assurance that the efforts we have taken to mitigate the impact of the volatility of the prices of commodities upon which we rely will be successful and any sudden change in the price of these commodities could have an adverse affect on our business and results of operations. We rely on third parties for our supply of natural gas, which is consumed in the manufacturing of ethanol. The prices for and availability of natural gas are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions often are affected by factors beyond our control such as higher prices resulting from colder than average weather conditions and overall economic conditions. Significant disruptions in the supply of natural gas could impair our ability to manufacture ethanol for our customers. Furthermore, increases in natural gas prices or changes in our natural gas costs relative to natural gas costs paid by competitors may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial position. Many of our business segments operate in highly regulated industries. Changes in government regulations or trade association policies could adversely affect our results of operations. Many of our business segments are subject to government regulation and regulation by certain private sector associations, compliance with which can impose significant costs on our business. Failure to comply with such regulations can result in additional costs, fines or criminal action. In our Grain & Ethanol Group and Plant Nutrient Group, agricultural production and trade flows are affected by government actions. Production levels, markets and prices of the grains we merchandise are affected by U.S. government programs, which include acreage control and price support programs of the USDA. In addition, grain sold by us must conform to official grade standards imposed by the USDA. Other examples of government policies that can have an impact on our business include tariffs, duties, subsidies, import and export restrictions and outright embargos. In addition, the development of the ethanol industry in which we have invested has been driven by U.S. governmental programs that provide incentives to ethanol producers. Changes in government policies and producer supports may impact the 11 amount and type of grains planted, which in turn, may impact our ability to buy grain in our market region. Because a portion of our grain sales are to exporters, the imposition of export restrictions could limit our sales opportunities. Our Rail Group is subject to regulation by the American Association of Railroads and the Federal Railroad Administration. These agencies regulate rail operations with respect to health and safety matters. New regulatory rulings could negatively impact financial results through higher maintenance costs or reduced economic value of railcar assets. Our Turf & Specialty Group manufactures lawn fertilizers and weed and pest control products and uses potentially hazardous materials. All products containing pesticides, fungicides and herbicides must be registered with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and state regulatory bodies before they can be sold. The inability to obtain or the cancellation of such registrations could have an adverse impact on our business. In the past, regulations governing the use and registration of these materials have required us to adjust the raw material content of our products and make formulation changes. Future regulatory changes may have similar consequences. Regulatory agencies, such as the EPA, may at any time reassess the safety of our products based on new scientific knowledge or other factors. If it were determined that any of our products were no longer considered to be safe, it could result in the amendment or withdrawal of existing approvals, which, in turn, could result in a loss of revenue, cause our inventory to become obsolete or give rise to potential lawsuits against us. Consequently, changes in existing and future government or trade association polices may restrict our ability to do business and cause our financial results to suffer. Climate change legislation could have an impact on our results of operations. Climate change legislation has not yet been finalized or adopted, so any evaluation of its impact on the Company is necessarily speculative. The Company is a significant user of electricity, so any legislation that increases the operating costs of coal fired power plants will likely increase our operating expenses, although not disproportionately to others in our businesses. The ethanol plants in which the Company invests use natural gas for their heating and drying functions, which is an energy source that we understand is less likely to be immediately affected by climate change legislation. It is likely that potential cap and trade legislation regarding greenhouse gases will impose costs on carbon dioxide emissions from the ethanol plants, and possibly on farmers who sell corn to those plants which will be passed on to the plants. Conversely, gasoline production will likely receive even greater cost allocations under a cap and trade regime, and thereby make the economics of blending ethanol more attractive. Carbon dioxide recapture technologies could become more cost effective under cap and trade legislation, increasing the prospect of additional capital investment to take advantage of such measures. We handle hazardous materials in our businesses. If environmental requirements become more stringent or if we experience unanticipated environmental hazards, we could be subject to significant costs and liabilities. A significant part of our operations is regulated by environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the labeling, use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials. Because we use and handle hazardous substances in our businesses, changes in environmental requirements or an unanticipated significant adverse environmental event could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot assure you that we have been, or will at all times be, in compliance with all environmental requirements, or that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with these requirements. Private parties, including current and former employees, could bring personal injury or other claims against us due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances used, stored or disposed of by us, or contained in our products. We are also exposed to residual risk because some of the facilities and land which we have acquired may have environmental liabilities arising from their prior use. In addition, changes to environmental regulations may require us to modify our existing plant and processing facilities and could significantly increase the cost of those operations. 12 We rely on a limited number of suppliers for certain of our raw materials and other products and the loss of one or several of these suppliers could increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on any one of our business segments. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for certain of our raw materials and other products. If we were unable to obtain these raw materials and products from our current vendors, or if there were significant increases in our supplier’s prices, it could significantly increase our costs and reduce our profit margins. We are required to carry significant amounts of inventory across all of our businesses. If a substantial portion of our inventory becomes damaged or obsolete, its value would decrease and our profit margins would suffer. We are exposed to the risk of a decrease in the value of our inventories due to a variety of circumstances in all of our businesses. For example, within our Grain & Ethanol Group, there is the risk that the quality of our grain inventory could deteriorate due to damage, moisture, insects, disease (such as vomitoxin) or foreign material. If the quality of our grain were to deteriorate below an acceptable level, the value of our inventory could decrease significantly. In our Plant Nutrient Group, planted acreage, and consequently the volume of fertilizer and crop protection products applied, is partially dependent upon government programs and the perception held by the producer of demand for production. Technological advances in agriculture, such as genetically engineered seeds that resist disease and insects, or that meet certain nutritional requirements, could also affect the demand for our crop nutrients and crop protection products. Either of these factors could render some of our inventory obsolete or reduce its value. Within our Rail Group, major design improvements to loading, unloading and transporting of certain products can render existing (especially old) equipment obsolete. A significant portion of our rail fleet is composed of older railcars. In addition, in our Turf & Specialty Group, we build substantial amounts of inventory in advance of the season to prepare for customer demand. If we were to forecast our customer demand incorrectly, we could build up excess inventory which could cause the value of our inventory to decrease. Our competitive position, financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected by technological advances. The development and implementation of new technologies may result in a significant reduction in the costs of ethanol production. For instance, any technological advances in the efficiency or cost to produce ethanol from inexpensive, cellulosic sources such as wheat, oat or barley straw could have an adverse effect on our business, because our ethanol facilities were designed to produce ethanol from corn, which is, by comparison, a raw material with other high value uses. We cannot predict when new technologies may become available, the rate of acceptance of new technologies by our competitors or the costs associated with new technologies. In addition, advances in the development of alternatives to ethanol or gasoline could significantly reduce demand for or eliminate the need for ethanol. Any advances in technology which require significant capital expenditures to remain competitive or which reduce demand or prices for ethanol would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Our investments in limited liability companies are subject to risks beyond our control. We currently have investments in six limited liability companies. By operating a business through this arrangement, we have less control over operating decisions than if we were to own the business outright. Specifically, we cannot act on major business initiatives without the consent of the other investors who may not always be in agreement with our ideas. 13 We may not achieve anticipated synergies related to strategic acquisitions and such acquisitions could cause unforeseen expenditures and require a significant amount of resources to successfully integrate into our business. We continuously look for opportunities to enhance our existing business through strategic acquisitions. The process of integrating an acquired business into our existing business and operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures as well as require a significant amount of management resources. There is also the risk that our due diligence efforts may not uncover significant business flaws or hidden liabilities. In addition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition and they may not generate the anticipated financial results. Our business involves significant safety risks. Significant unexpected costs and liabilities would have a material adverse effect on our profitability and overall financial position. Due to the nature of some of the businesses in which we operate, we are exposed to significant safety risks such as grain dust explosions, fires, malfunction of equipment, abnormal pressures, blowouts, pipeline ruptures, chemical spills or run-off, transportation accidents and natural disasters. Some of these operational hazards may cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. If one of our elevators were to experience a grain dust explosion or if one of our pieces of equipment were to fail or malfunction due to an accident or improper maintenance, it could put our employees and others at serious risk. In addition, if we were to experience a catastrophic failure of a storage facility in our Plant Nutrient or Turf & Specialty Group, it could harm not only our employees but the environment as well and could subject us to significant additional costs. The U.S. ethanol industry is highly dependent upon a myriad of federal and state legislation and regulation and any changes in such legislation or regulation could materially and adversely affect our future results of operations and financial position. The elimination or significant reduction in the blenders’ credit could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. The cost of production of ethanol is made significantly more competitive with regular gasoline by federal tax incentives. The federal excise tax incentive program allows gasoline distributors who blend ethanol with gasoline to receive a federal excise tax rate reduction for each blended gallon sold. This incentive program is scheduled to expire (unless extended) at the end of 2010. The blenders’ credits may not be renewed or may be renewed on different terms. In addition, the blenders’ credits, as well as other federal and state programs benefiting ethanol (such as tariffs), generally are subject to U.S. government obligations under international trade agreements, including those under the World Trade Organization Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, and might be the subject of challenges thereunder, in whole or in part. The Company expects that this credit will be extended, however, there is no guarantee and the elimination or significant reduction in the blenders’ credit or other programs benefiting ethanol may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. The government is also considering increasing the mandatory blend of ethanol, which is currently at 10%, up to 15% which could positively impact the demand for ethanol Ethanol can be imported into the U.S. duty-free from some countries, which may undermine the ethanol industry in the U.S. Imported ethanol is generally subject to a per gallon tariff that was designed to offset the per gallon ethanol incentive available under the federal excise tax incentive program for refineries that blend ethanol in their fuel. A special exemption from the tariff exists, with certain limitations, for ethanol imported from 24 countries in Central America and the Caribbean Islands. Any changes in the tariff or exemption from the tariff could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. 14 Fluctuations in the selling price and production cost of gasoline as well as the spread between ethanol and corn prices may reduce future profit margins of our ethanol business. We will market ethanol as a fuel additive to reduce vehicle emissions from gasoline, as an octane enhancer to improve the octane rating of gasoline with which it is blended and as a substitute for oil derived gasoline. As a result, ethanol prices will be influenced by the supply and demand for gasoline and our future results of operations and financial position may be materially adversely affected if gasoline demand or price decreases. The principal raw material we use to produce ethanol and co-products, including DDG, is corn. As a result, changes in the price of corn can significantly affect our business. In general, rising corn prices will produce lower profit margins for our ethanol business. Because ethanol competes with non-corn-based fuels, we generally will be unable to pass along increased corn costs to our customers. At certain levels, corn prices may make ethanol uneconomical to use in fuel markets. The price of corn is influenced by weather conditions and other factors affecting crop yields, farmer planting decisions and general economic, market and regulatory factors. These factors include government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade, and global and local demand and supply. The significance and relative effect of these factors on the price of corn is difficult to predict. Any event that tends to negatively affect the supply of corn, such as adverse weather or crop disease, could increase corn prices and potentially harm our ethanol business. The Company will attempt to lock in ethanol margins as far out as practical in order to secure reasonable returns using whatever risk management tools are available in the marketplace. In addition, we may also have difficulty, from time to time, in physically sourcing corn on economical terms due to supply shortages. High costs or shortages could require us to suspend our ethanol operations until corn is available on economical terms, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our business operates in the railroad industry, which is subject to unique, industry specific risks and uncertainties. Our failure to accurately assess these risks and uncertainties could be detrimental to our Rail Group business. Our Rail Group is subject to risks associated with the demands and restrictions of the Class 1 railroads, a group of publicly owned rail companies owning a high percentage of the existing rail lines. These companies exercise a high degree of control over whether private railcars can be allowed on their lines and may reject certain railcars or require maintenance or improvements to the railcars. This presents risk and uncertainty for our Rail Group and it can increase the Group’s maintenance costs. In addition, a shift in the railroad strategy to investing in new rail cars and improvements to existing railcars, instead of investing in locomotives and infrastructure, could adversely impact our business by causing increased competition and creating an oversupply of railcars. Our rail fleet consists of a range of railcar types (boxcars, gondolas, covered and open top hoppers, tank cars and pressure differential cars) and locomotives. However a large concentration of a particular type of railcar could expose us to risk if demand were to decrease for that railcar type. Failure on our part to identify and assess risks and uncertainties such as these could negatively impact our business. Our Rail Group relies upon customers continuing to lease rather than purchase railcar assets. Our business could be adversely impacted if there were a large customer shift from leasing to purchasing railcars, or if railcar leases are not match funded. Our Rail Group relies upon customers continuing to lease rather than purchase railcar assets. There are a number of items that factor into a customer’s decision to lease or purchase assets, such as tax considerations, interest rates, balance sheet considerations, fleet management and maintenance and operational flexibility. Potential accounting changes could also eliminate the accounting classification of operating leases, which could also impact a customer’s decision to lease versus buy. We have no control over these external considerations, and changes in our customers’ preferences could negatively impact demand for our leasing products. Profitability is largely dependent on the ability to maintain railcars on lease (utilization) at satisfactory lease rates. A number of factors can adversely affect utilization and lease rates including the current economic downturn which is causing reduced demand and oversupply in the markets in which we operate. 15 Furthermore, match funding (in relation to rail lease transactions) means matching terms between the lease with the customer and the funding arrangement with the financial intermediary. This is not always possible. We are exposed to risk to the extent that the lease terms do not perfectly match the funding terms, leading to non-income generating assets if a replacement lessee cannot be found. During economic downturns, the cyclical nature of the railroad business results in lower demand for railcars and reduced revenue. The railcar business is cyclical. Overall economic conditions and the purchasing and leasing habits of railcar users have a significant effect upon our railcar leasing business due to the impact on demand for refurbished and leased products. Economic conditions that result in higher interest rates increase the cost of new leasing arrangements, which could cause some of our leasing customers to lease fewer of our railcars or demand shorter terms. An economic downturn or increase in interest rates may reduce demand for railcars, resulting in lower sales volumes, lower prices, lower lease utilization rates and decreased profits or losses. The length of recovery during an economic downturn is unknown and may be a slow process. 16 