ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our prospects, our operating results, our financial condition, the trading prices of our securities and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also affect our business operations. Risk Factors Relating to Our Licensed and Non-Licensed Products Business The failure to maintain our license agreements could cause us to lose significant revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are dependent on sales of licensed product for a substantial portion of our revenues. In fiscal 2014, net sales of licensed product accounted for 64.1% of our net sales compared to 67.3% of our net sales in fiscal 2013 and 65.5% of our net sales in fiscal 2012. We are generally required to achieve specified minimum net sales, make specified royalty and advertising payments and receive prior approval of the licensor as to all design and other elements of a product prior to production. License agreements also may restrict our ability to enter into other license agreements for competing products or acquire businesses that produce competing products. If we do not satisfy any of these requirements or receive approval with respect to a restricted transaction, a licensor usually will have the right to terminate our license. Even if a licensor does not terminate our license, the failure to achieve net sales sufficient to cover our required minimum royalty payments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If a license contains a renewal provision, there are usually minimum sales and other conditions that must be met in order to be able to renew a license. Even if we comply with all the terms of a license agreement, we cannot be sure that we will be able to renew an agreement when it expires even if we desire to do so. The failure to maintain or renew our license agreements could cause us to lose significant revenue and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our success is dependent on the strategies and reputation of our licensors, including in particular, Calvin Klein. Our business strategy is to offer our products on a multiple brand, multiple channel and multiple price point basis. As a part of this strategy, we license the names and brands of numerous recognized companies, designers and celebrities. In entering into these license agreements, we plan our products to be targeted towards different market segments based on consumer demographics, design, suggested pricing and channel of distribution. If any of our licensors decides to “reposition” its products under the brands we license from them, introduce similar products under similar brand names or otherwise change the parameters of design, pricing, distribution, target market or competitive set, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand’s business, adversely affecting our sales and profitability. In addition, as licensed products may be personally associated with designers or celebrities, our sales of those products could be materially and adversely affected if any of those individuals’ images, reputations or popularity were to be negatively impacted. Any adverse change in our relationship with PVH Corp. would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have ten different license agreements relating to a variety of products sold under the Calvin Klein brand that is owned by PVH Corp. Sales of Calvin Klein product constitute a majority of our sales of licensed products. Any change by PVH in the marketing of products sold under the Calvin Klein label or any adverse change in the consumer’s perception of the Calvin Klein brand could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have three license agreements for products sold under the Tommy Hilfiger brand, which is also owned by PVH. Any adverse change in our relationship with PVH would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 16TABLE OF CONTENTS If our customers change their buying patterns, request additional allowances, develop their own private label brands or enter into agreements with national brand manufacturers to sell their products on an exclusive basis, our sales to these customers could be materially adversely affected. Our customers’ buying patterns, as well as the need to provide additional allowances to customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Customers’ strategic initiatives, including developing their own private labels brands, selling national brands on an exclusive basis or reducing the number of vendors they purchase from, could also impact our sales to these customers. There is a trend among major retailers to concentrate purchasing among a narrowing group of vendors. To the extent that any of our key customers reduces the number of its vendors and, as a result, reduces or eliminates purchases from us, there could be a material adverse effect on us. We have significant customer concentration, and the loss of one of our large customers could adversely affect our business. Our 10 largest customers, all of which are department or discount store groups, accounted for approximately 61.3% of our net sales in fiscal 2014, 63.7% of our net sales in fiscal 2013 and 63.3% of our net sales in fiscal 2012, with the Macy’s Inc. group accounting for approximately 21.0% of our net sales in fiscal 2014. Consolidation in the retail industry could increase the concentration of our sales to our largest customers. We do not have long-term contracts with any customers, and sales to customers generally occur on an order-by-order basis that may be subject to cancellation or rescheduling by the customer. A decision by our major customers to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from us, increase the use of their own private label brands, sell a national brand on an exclusive basis or change the manner of doing business with us could reduce our revenues and materially adversely affect our results of operations. The loss of any of our large customers, or the bankruptcy or serious financial difficulty of any of our large customers, could have a material adverse effect on us. If we miscalculate the market for our products, we may end up with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for others. We often produce products to hold in inventory in order to meet our customers’ delivery requirements and to be able to quickly fulfill reorders. If we misjudge the market for our products, we may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for others. In addition, weak sales and resulting markdown requests from customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are subject to the risks of doing business abroad. Our arrangements with foreign manufacturers are subject to the usual risks of doing business abroad, including currency fluctuations, political or labor instability and potential import restrictions, duties and tariffs. We do not maintain insurance for the potential lost profits due to disruptions of our overseas manufacturers. Because our products are produced abroad, primarily in China, political or economic instability in China or elsewhere could cause substantial disruption in the business of our foreign manufacturers. For example, in the past, the Chinese government has reduced tax rebates to factories for the manufacture of textile and leather garments. The rebate reduction resulted in factories seeking to recoup more of their costs from customers, resulting in higher prices for goods imported from China. This tax rebate has been reinstated in certain instances. However, new or increased reductions in this rebate would cause an increase in the cost of finished products from China which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Heightened terrorism security concerns could subject imported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections. This could delay deliveries or increase costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, since we negotiate our purchase orders with foreign manufacturers in United States dollars, the decline in value of the United States dollar against local currencies would negatively impact our cost in dollars of product sourced from these manufacturers. We are not currently engaged in any hedging activities to protect against currency risks. If there is downward pressure on the value of the dollar, our purchase prices for our products could increase. We may not be able to offset an increase in product costs with a price increase to our customers. 17TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Relating to Our Retail Business The expansion of our retail business through the acquisition of G.H. Bass involves significant costs and uncertainties. We will need to improve the results of operations of the G.H. Bass outlet stores in order for these stores to operate profitably for us. In November 2013, we acquired the G.H. Bass business, which included the operation of 156 outlet stores as of January 31, 2014. Managing the Bass outlet stores requires the expenditure of our time and resources. Prior to our acquisition of the G.H. Bass outlet stores, these stores as a whole were experiencing declines in comparable stores sales, sales per square foot and gross margins. We will need to improve store operations and change the product mix offered at these stores in order for these stores to operate profitably for us. We had no experience operating a retail chain that is primarily known for footwear prior to this acquisition and cannot be sure we will be able to improve the operations of these stores. If we cannot improve the results of operations of these stores sufficiently for them to be profitable, this acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Leasing of significant amounts of real estate exposes us to possible liabilities and losses. All of the stores operated by us are leased. Accordingly, we are subject to all of the risks associated with leasing real estate. Store leases generally require us to pay a fixed minimum rent and a variable amount based on a percentage of annual sales at that location. We generally cannot cancel our leases. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may be committed to perform certain obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying rent for the balance of the applicable lease term. As each of our leases expires, if we do not have a renewal option, we may be unable to negotiate a renewal, on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores in desirable locations. In addition, we may not be able to close an unprofitable store due to an existing operating covenant, which may cause us to operate the location at a loss and prevent us from finding a more desirable location. Our retail stores are heavily dependent on the ability and desire of consumers to travel and shop. A reduction in the volume of outlet mall traffic could adversely affect our retail sales. Substantially all of our retail stores are operated as outlet stores and located in larger outlet centers, which are typically located in or near vacation destinations or away from large population centers where department stores and other traditional retailers are concentrated. Economic uncertainty in the U.S., fuel shortages, increased fuel prices, travel concerns and other circumstances, which would lead to decreased travel, could have a material adverse effect on sales at our outlet stores. Other factors which could affect the success of our outlet stores include: •the location of the outlet mall or the location of a particular store within the mall; •the other tenants occupying space at the outlet mall; •increased competition in areas where the outlet malls are located; •a continued downturn in the economy generally or in a particular area where an outlet mall is located; and •the amount of advertising and promotional dollars spent on attracting consumers to the outlet malls. Sales at our outlet stores are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic at the malls where our stores are located. Our outlet stores benefit from the ability of a mall’s other tenants and other area attractions to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores and the continuing popularity of outlet malls as shopping destinations. A reduction in outlet mall traffic as a result of these or other factors could materially adversely affect our business. 18TABLE OF CONTENTS The retail business is intensely competitive and increased or new competition could have a material adverse effect on us. The retail industry is intensely competitive. We compete against a diverse group of retailers, including, among others, other outlet stores, department stores, specialty stores, warehouse clubs and e-commerce retailers. We also compete in particular markets with a number of retailers that specialize in the products that we sell. A number of different competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our retail business, results of operations and financial condition including: •increased operational efficiencies of competitors; •competitive pricing strategies, including deep discount pricing by a broad range of retailers during periods of poor consumer confidence or economic instability; •expansion of product offerings by existing competitors; •entry by new competitors into markets in which we operate retail stores; and •adoption by existing competitors of innovative retail sales methods. We may not be able to continue to compete successfully with our existing or new competitors, or be assured that prolonged periods of deep discount pricing by our competitors will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Risk Factors Relating to Our Vilebrequin Business Expansion of our business as a result of the acquisition of Vilebrequin involves costs and uncertainties. In August 2012, we acquired Vilebrequin, a premier provider of status swimwear, resort wear and related accessories. Vilebrequin sells its products through a network of both owned and franchised specialty retail stores and shops, as well as through select wholesale distribution. While we have operated outlet stores for several years, we had not previously operated a full price retail chain that includes both owned and franchised stores. Our success with Vilebrequin will be dependent, in part, on our ability to protect and enhance the reputation and status of the Vilebrequin brand. In addition, Vilebrequin’s key swimwear products have a distinctive design and construction utilizing a specialized fabric. As a result, Vilebrequin sources a significant majority of its product with only two manufacturers. Any disruption in the operations of these manufacturers could create an inability to supply required goods to our stores or to our wholesale customers in a timely fashion or without a significant delay, as we may not be able to quickly find another manufacturer that can meet Vilebrequin’s production requirements. Managing the Vilebrequin business will require the expenditure of a significant amount of our time and resources. Operation of an international retail and wholesale business could divert our management’s time and resources from our core domestic business and could negatively impact our results of operations. Our ability to successfully integrate the operations of Vilebrequin and to capitalize on growth in new international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. Our ability to integrate the operations of Vilebrequin into our company is important in order for us to realize the intended benefits of this acquisition. Vilebrequin’s international operations may make it more difficult for us to accomplish this integration. Our ability to capitalize on this acquisition and successfully expand into international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. These include: •the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including trade and labor restrictions; •compliance with U.S. and other country laws relating to foreign operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business; •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and •new tariffs or other barriers in some international markets. 19TABLE OF CONTENTS We are also subject to general political and economic risks in connection with Vilebrequin’s international operations, including: •political instability and terrorist attacks; •changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and •general and economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. Changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social or economic policies and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our Vilebrequin business in the future or may require us to exit a particular market or significantly modify our current business practices. Our expansion into the European market exposes us to uncertain economic conditions in the Euro zone. Demand for our products depends in part on the general economic conditions affecting the countries in which we do business. With the acquisition of Vilebrequin, we have significantly expanded our presence in the European market. Recently, the economic situation in Europe has been unstable, arising from concerns that certain European countries may default in payments due on their national debt obligations and from related European financial restructuring efforts, as well as overall weak economic performance within the European market. If such defaults were to occur, or if European financial restructuring efforts create their own instability, current instability in the global credit markets may increase. Continued financial instability in Europe could adversely affect our European operations and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on us. We have foreign currency exposures relating to buying, selling and financing in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our functional currency. We have foreign currency exposure related to foreign denominated revenues and costs, which must be translated into U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates (particularly any strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to the Euro) may adversely affect our reported earnings and the comparability of period-to-period results of operations. In addition, while certain currencies (notably the Hong Kong dollar and Chinese Renminbi) are currently fixed or managed in value in relation to the U.S. dollar by foreign central banks or governmental entities, such conditions may change, thereby exposing us to various risks as a result. Certain of our foreign operations purchase products from suppliers denominated in U.S. dollars and Euros, which may expose such operations to increases in cost of goods sold (thereby lowering profit margins) as a result of foreign currency fluctuations. Our exposures are primarily concentrated in the Euro. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we and our foreign competitors purchase and sell products in the same market and the cost of certain items required in our operations. In addition, certain of our foreign operations have receivables or payables denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies, which exposes such operations to foreign exchange losses as a result of foreign currency fluctuations. Such fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risk Factors Relating to the Operation of Our Business If we lose the services of our key personnel, our business will be harmed. Our future success depends on Morris Goldfarb, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, and other key personnel. The loss of the services of Mr. Goldfarb and any negative market or industry perception arising from the loss of his services could have a material adverse effect on us and the price of our shares. Our other executive officers have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could also adversely affect us. We have expanded our business through acquisitions that could result in diversion of resources, an inability to integrate acquired operations and extra expenses. This could disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial condition. Part of our growth strategy is to pursue acquisitions. The negotiation of potential acquisitions as well as the integration of acquired businesses could divert our management’s time and resources. Acquired 20TABLE OF CONTENTS businesses may not be successfully integrated with our operations. We may not realize the intended benefits of any acquisition, such as our recent acquisitions of G.H. Bass and Vilebrequin. Acquisitions could also result in: •substantial cash expenditures; •potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities; •the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; •a decrease in our profit margins; •amortization of intangibles and potential impairment of goodwill; •reduction of management attention to other parts of our business; •failure to generate expected financial results or reach business goals; and •increased expenditures on human resources and related costs. If acquisitions disrupt our operations, our business may suffer. We may need additional financing to continue to grow. The continued growth of our business, including as a result of acquisitions, depends on our access to sufficient funds to support our growth. Our primary source of working capital to support our growth is our line of credit which currently extends to August 2017. Our need for working capital has increased significantly as a result of our seven acquisitions since July 2005, our addition of new licenses and the expansion of our business. The maximum available under our line of credit has increased from $110 million prior to our acquisitions in July 2005 to its current level of $450 million, which resulted from a new credit agreement that increased our maximum availability by $150 million at the time we acquired Vilebrequin in August 2012. Our growth is dependent on our ability to continue to be able to extend and increase our line of credit. If we are unable to refinance our debt, we cannot be sure we will be able to secure alternative financing on satisfactory terms or at all. The loss of the use of this credit facility or the inability to replace this facility when it expires would materially impair our ability to operate our business. Our business is highly seasonal. Our results of operations may suffer in the event that the weather is unusually warm during the peak selling season. Retail sales of apparel have traditionally been seasonal in nature. In prior years we have been dependent on our sales from July through November for the substantial majority of our net sales and net income. Net sales in the months of July through November accounted for approximately 57% of our net sales in fiscal 2014, 58% of our net sales in fiscal 2013 and 60% of our net sales in fiscal 2012. Our Wilsons and G.H. Bass retail businesses are also highly seasonal, with the third and fourth fiscal quarters accounting for a significant majority of their sales and operating income. As a result, we are highly dependent on our results of operations during the second half of our fiscal year. Any difficulties we may encounter during this period as a result of weather or disruption of manufacturing or transportation of our products will have a magnified effect on our net sales and net income for the year. In addition, because of the large amount of outerwear we sell at both wholesale and retail, unusually warm weather conditions during the peak fall and winter outerwear selling season, including as a result of any change in historical climate patterns, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our quarterly results of operations for our retail business also may fluctuate based upon such factors as the timing of certain holiday seasons, the number and timing of new store openings, the acceptability of seasonal merchandise offerings, the timing and level of markdowns, store closings and remodels, competitive factors, weather and general economic conditions. The second half of the year is expected to continue to provide a disproportionate amount of our net sales and almost all of our net income for the foreseeable future. Extreme or unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect our business. Extreme weather events and changes in weather patterns can influence customer trends and shopping habits. Extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season may diminish demand for our seasonal merchandise. Heavy snowfall, hurricanes 21TABLE OF CONTENTS or other severe weather events in the areas in which our retail stores and the retail stores of our wholesale customers are located may decrease customer traffic in those stores and reduce our sales and profitability. If severe weather events were to force closure of or disrupt operations at the distribution centers we use for our merchandise, we could incur higher costs and experience longer lead times to distribute our products to our retail stores, wholesale customers or e-commerce customers. If prolonged, such extreme or unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to successfully translate market trends into attractive product offerings, our sales and profitability could suffer. Our ability to successfully compete depends on a number of factors, including our ability to effectively anticipate, gauge and respond to changing consumer demands and tastes across multiple product lines and tiers of distribution. We are required to translate market trends into attractive product offerings and operate within substantial production and delivery constraints. We cannot be sure we will continue to be successful in this regard. We need to anticipate and respond to changing trends quickly, efficiently and effectively in order to be successful. Expansion of our product offerings involves significant costs and uncertainty and could adversely affect our results of operations. An important part of our strategy is to expand the types of products we offer. During the past few years, we have added licenses for new lines of women’s suits, dresses, performance wear, sportswear and men’s and women’s swimwear, as well as luggage and women’s handbags and small leather goods. In August 2012, we acquired Vilebrequin, a manufacturer of swimwear, resort wear and related accessories and, in November 2013, we acquired, G.H. Bass, a manufacturer of footwear. We had limited prior experience designing, manufacturing and marketing these types of products. We intend to continue to add additional product lines in the future. As is typical with new products, demand and market acceptance for any new products we introduce will be subject to uncertainty. Designing, producing and marketing new products require substantial expenditures. We cannot be certain that our efforts and expenditures will successfully generate sales or that sales that are generated will be sufficient to cover our expenditures. We are subject to the risk of inventory loss and theft. Efficient inventory management is a key component of our business success and profitability. To be successful, we must maintain sufficient inventory levels to meet the demands of our wholesale and retail customers without allowing those levels to increase to such an extent that the costs to store and hold the goods unduly impacts our financial results. If our buying decisions do not accurately predict customer trends or purchasing actions, we may have to take unanticipated markdowns to dispose of the excess inventory, which also can adversely impact our financial results. We continue to focus on ways to reduce these risks, but we cannot be certain you that we will continue to be successful in our inventory management. If we are not successful in managing our inventory balances, our cash flows from operations may be negatively affected. We have experienced inventory shrinkage in the past, and we cannot be certain that incidences of inventory loss and theft will decrease in the future or that the measures we are taking will effectively reduce the problem of inventory shrinkage. Although some level of inventory shrinkage is an unavoidable cost of doing business, if we were to experience higher rates of inventory shrinkage or incur increased security costs to combat inventory theft, our financial condition could be affected adversely. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of materials used in our products could have a material adverse effect on our cost of goods sold and our ability to meet our customers’ demands. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials used in our products could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or our ability to meet our customers’ demands. We compete with numerous entities for supplies of materials and manufacturing capacity. Raw materials are vulnerable to adverse climate conditions, animal diseases and natural disasters that can affect the supply and price of raw 22TABLE OF CONTENTS materials. We may not be able to pass on all or any portion of higher material prices to our customers. For example significant increases in the price of raw materials occurred during fiscal 2012. Future increases in raw material prices could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Any raw material price increase or increase in costs related to the transport of our products (primarily petroleum costs) could increase our cost of sales and decrease our profitability unless we are able to pass higher prices on to our customers. In addition, if one or more of our competitors is able to reduce its production costs by taking greater advantage of any reductions in raw material prices, favorable sourcing agreements or new manufacturing technologies (which enable manufacturers to produce goods on a more cost-effective basis) we may face pricing pressures from those competitors and may be forced to reduce our prices or face a decline in net sales, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our trademark and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We may, however, experience conflict with various third parties who acquire or claim ownership rights in certain trademarks. We cannot be sure that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and proprietary rights of others. In the course of our attempts to expand into foreign markets, we may experience conflicts with various third parties who have acquired ownership rights in certain trademarks, which would impede our use and registration of some of our trademarks. Such conflicts are common and may arise from time to time as we pursue international expansion, such as with our acquisition of Vilebrequin. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Enforcing rights to our intellectual property may be difficult and expensive, and we may not be successful in combating counterfeit products and stopping infringement of our intellectual property rights, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our trademark and other intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our trademark and other intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights, continued sales of such competing products by third parties could harm our brands and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon foreign manufacturers. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. We also do not have long-term written agreements with any of our manufacturers. As a result, any of these manufacturers may unilaterally terminate its relationship with us at any time. Almost all of our products are imported from independent foreign manufacturers. The failure of these manufacturers to meet required quality standards could damage our relationships with our customers. In addition, the failure by these manufacturers to ship products to us in a timely manner could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers. The failure to make timely deliveries could cause customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept delivery of products or demand reduced prices. We are also dependent on these manufacturers for compliance with our policies and the policies of our licensors and customers regarding labor practices employed by factories that manufacture product for us. Any failure by these manufacturers to comply with required labor standards or any other divergence in their labor or other practices from those generally considered ethical in the United States and the potential negative publicity relating to any of these events, could result in a violation by us of our license agreements and harm us and our reputation. In addition, a manufacturer’s failure to comply with safety or content regulations and standards could result in substantial liability and harm to our reputation. If we do not successfully upgrade, maintain and secure our information systems to support the needs of our organization, this could have an adverse impact on the operation of our business. We rely heavily on information systems to manage operations, including a full range of financial, sourcing, retail and merchandising systems, and regularly make investments to upgrade, enhance or replace 23TABLE OF CONTENTS these systems. The reliability and capacity of information systems is critical. Despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses, power outages and other technical malfunctions. Any disruptions affecting our information systems, or any delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or in integrating them with current systems, could have a material adverse impact on the operation of our business. In addition, our ability to continue to operate our business without significant interruption in the event of a disaster or other disruption depends in part on the ability of our information systems to operate in accordance with our disaster recovery and business continuity plans. A privacy breach could adversely affect our business. The protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. Customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. A significant breach of customer, employee, or company data could damage our reputation and result in lost sales, fines, or lawsuits. Our business involves the receipt and storage of personal information about customers and employees. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disrupt our operations and the services we provide to customers and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, revenues and competitive position. Our use of personal information is regulated at the international, federal and state levels. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding. Privacy and information security laws and regulations change from time to time, and compliance with them may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new processes. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be subjected to legal risk. Risk Factors Relating to the Economy and the Apparel Industry Recent and future economic conditions, including volatility in the financial and credit markets, may adversely affect our business. Economic conditions have affected, and in the future may adversely affect, the apparel industry and our major customers. Recent conditions have led to a reduction in overall consumer spending, which could have an adverse impact on sales of our products. A disruption in the ability of our significant customers to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. A significant adverse change in a customer’s financial and/or credit position could also require us to sell fewer products to that customer or to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer’s receivables or could limit our ability to collect receivables related to previous purchases by that customer. As a result, our reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. Our ability to continue to have the necessary liquidity to operate our business may be adversely impacted by a number of factors, including a continuation of the uncertain conditions in the credit and financial markets which could limit the availability and increase the cost of financing. A deterioration of our results of operations and cash flow resulting from decreases in consumer spending, could, among other things, impact our ability to comply with financial covenants in our existing credit facility. Our historical sources of liquidity to fund ongoing cash requirements include cash flows from operations, cash and cash equivalents, and borrowings through our credit agreement (which includes revolving and trade letter of credit facilities). The sufficiency and availability of credit may be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including, without limitation, the tightening of the credit markets, including lending by financial institutions who are sources of credit for our borrowing and liquidity; an increase in the cost of capital; the reduced availability of credit; our ability to execute our strategy; the level of our cash 24TABLE OF CONTENTS flows, which will be impacted by retailer and consumer acceptance of our products and the level of consumer discretionary spending; maintenance of financial covenants included in our credit agreement; and interest rate fluctuations. We cannot be certain that any additional required financing, whether debt or equity, will be available in amounts needed or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. As of January 31, 2014, we were in compliance with the financial covenants in our credit agreement. Compliance with these financial covenants is dependent on the results of our operations, which are subject to a number of factors including current economic conditions. The economic environment has at times resulted in lower consumer confidence and lower retail sales. Adverse developments in the economic climate could lead to reduced consumer spending which could adversely impact our net sales and cash flow, which could affect our compliance with our financial covenants. A violation of our covenants could limit access to our credit facilities. Should such restrictions on our credit facilities and these factors occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The cyclical nature of the apparel industry and uncertainty over future economic prospects and consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The apparel industry is cyclical. Purchases of outerwear, sportswear, swimwear, footwear and other apparel tend to decline during recessionary periods and may decline for a variety of other reasons, including changes in fashion trends and the introduction of new products or pricing changes by our competitors. Uncertainties regarding future economic prospects may affect consumer-spending habits and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Uncertainty with respect to consumer spending as a result of weak economic conditions has, at times, caused our customers to delay the placing of initial orders and to slow the pace of reorders during the seasonal peak of our business. Weak economic conditions have had a material adverse effect on our results of operations at times in the past and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the future as well. The competitive nature of our industry may result in lower prices for our products and decreased gross profit margins. The apparel business is highly competitive. We have numerous competitors with respect to the sale of apparel, footwear and accessories, including distributors that import products from abroad and domestic retailers with established foreign manufacturing capabilities. Many of our competitors have greater financial and marketing resources and greater manufacturing capacity than we do. The general availability of contract manufacturing capacity also allows ease of access by new market entrants. The competitive nature of the apparel industry may result in lower prices for our products and decreased gross profit margins, either of which may materially adversely affect our sales and profitability. Sales of our products are affected by a number of competitive factors including style, price, quality, brand recognition and reputation, product appeal and general fashion trends. If major department, mass merchant and specialty store chains continue to consolidate, our business could be negatively affected. We sell our products to major department, mass merchant and specialty store chains. Continued consolidation in the retail industry could negatively impact our business. Consolidation could reduce the number of our customers and potential customers. With increased consolidation in the retail industry, we are increasingly dependent on retailers whose bargaining strength may increase and whose share of our business may grow. As a result, we may face greater pressure from these customers to provide more favorable terms, including increased support of their retail margins. As purchasing decisions become more centralized, the risks from consolidation increase. A store group could decide to decrease the amount of product purchased from us, modify the amount of floor space allocated to outerwear or other apparel in general or to our products specifically or focus on promoting private label products or national brand products for which it has exclusive rights rather than promoting our products. Customers are also concentrating purchases among a narrowing group of vendors. These types of decisions by our key customers could adversely affect our business. A significant increase in fuel prices could adversely affect our results of operations. Fuel prices have increased significantly at times during the past few years, and continued at relatively high levels in fiscal 2014. Increased gasoline prices could adversely affect consumer spending, including 25TABLE OF CONTENTS discretionary spending on apparel and accessories. In addition, higher fuel prices have caused our operating expenses to increase, particularly for freight. Any significant decrease in sales or increase in expenses as a result of higher fuel prices could adversely affect our results of operations. If new legislation restricting the importation or increasing the cost of textiles and apparel produced abroad is enacted, our business could be adversely affected. Legislation that would restrict the importation or increase the cost of textiles and apparel produced abroad has been periodically introduced in Congress. The enactment of new legislation or international trade regulation, or executive action affecting international textile or trade agreements, could adversely affect our business. International trade agreements that can provide for tariffs and/or quotas can increase the cost and limit the amount of product that can be imported. China’s accession agreement for membership in the World Trade Organization provides that member countries, including the United States, may impose safeguard quotas on specific products. We are unable to assess the potential for future action by the United States government with respect to any product category in the event that the quantity of imported apparel significantly disrupts the apparel market in the United States. Future action by the United States in response to a disruption in its apparel markets could limit our ability to import apparel and increase our costs. The effects of war, acts of terrorism or natural disasters could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The continued threat of terrorism, heightened security measures and military action in response to acts of terrorism or civil unrest has, at times, disrupted commerce and intensified concerns regarding the United States economy. Any further acts of terrorism or new or extended hostilities may disrupt commerce and undermine consumer confidence, which could negatively impact our sales and results of operations. Similarly, the occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, fires, floods or earthquakes could result in the closure of one or more of our distribution centers, our corporate headquarters or a significant number of stores or impact one or more of our key suppliers. In addition, these types of events could result in increases in energy prices or a fuel shortage, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of product, disruption in the transport of product from overseas, delay in the delivery of product to our factories, our customers or our stores and disruption in our information and communication systems. Accordingly, these types of events could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. Other Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President may be in a position to control matters requiring a stockholder vote. As of March 31, 2014, Morris Goldfarb, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, beneficially owned approximately 12.0% of our common stock. His significant role in our management and his reputation in the apparel industry could make his support crucial to the approval of any major transaction involving us. As a result, he may have the ability to control the outcome on matters requiring stockholder approval including, but not limited to, the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. He also may have the ability to control our management and affairs. The price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and could continue to fluctuate significantly. Between February 1, 2011 and March 31, 2014, the market price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $17.31 to a high of $77.22 per share. The market price of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, including: •fluctuations in our quarterly revenues or those of our competitors as a result of seasonality or other factors; •a shortfall in revenues or net income from that expected by securities analysts and investors; 26TABLE OF CONTENTS •changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or the financial performance of our competitors or companies in our industry generally; •announcements concerning our competitors; •changes in product pricing policies by our competitors or our customers; •general conditions in our industry; and •general conditions in the securities markets. Our actual financial results might vary from our publicly disclosed financial forecasts. From time to time, we publicly disclose financial forecasts. Our forecasts reflect numerous assumptions concerning our expected performance, as well as other factors that are beyond our control and that might not turn out to be correct. As a result, variations from our forecasts could be material. Our financial results are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those identified throughout this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this Annual Report and in the documents incorporated by reference in this Annual Report. If our actual financial results are worse than our financial forecasts, the price of our common stock may decline. We are subject to significant corporate regulation as a public company and failure to comply with all applicable regulations could subject us to liability or negatively affect our stock price. As a publicly traded company, we are subject to a significant body of regulation, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. While we have developed and instituted corporate compliance programs and continue to update our programs in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot provide assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable corporate regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines or other sanctions or litigation. The internal control over financial reporting required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may not prevent or detect misstatements because of certain of its limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. As a result, even effective internal controls may not provide reasonable assurances with respect to the preparation and presentation of financial statements. We cannot provide assurance that, in the future, our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We also cannot provide assurance that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to state that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our Annual Report on Form 10-K or state that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. If we must disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our stock price could decline. The new SEC conflict minerals disclosure rules are complex and compliance with the rules could be difficult. We are subject to recently adopted SEC disclosure obligations relating to our use of so-called “conflict minerals” such as columbite-tantalite, cassiterite (tin), wolframite (tungsten) and gold. These minerals are present in a number of our products. The disclosure obligations are complex, and there is little formal guidance with respect to their application. Under the rules as adopted, the first reports under these disclosure obligations are due to be filed with the SEC no later than May 2014 with respect to our activities during 2013, unless a current legal challenge to the validity of these rules is upheld. Although we expect to be able to file the required report on time if required to do so, the preparation of our report is dependent upon the implementation of new systems and processes and information supplied by our suppliers of products that contain, or potentially contain, conflict minerals. To the extent that the information that we receive from our suppliers is inaccurate or inadequate or our processes in obtaining that information do not fulfill the SEC’s requirements, we could face both reputational and SEC enforcement risks. 27TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 