Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in this Form 10-K and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. These risks can be impacted by factors beyond our control as well as by errors and omissions on our part. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Certain of our business segments are affected by the supply and demand of commodities, and are sensitive to factors outside of our control. Adverse price movements could negatively affect our profitability and results of operations. Our Grain & Ethanol and Plant Nutrient Groups buy, sell and hold inventories of various commodities, some of which are readily traded on commodity futures exchanges. In addition, our Turf & Specialty Group uses some of these same fertilizer commodities as base raw materials in manufacturing golf course and landscape fertilizer. Unfavorable weather conditions, both local and worldwide, as well as other factors beyond our control, can affect the supply and demand of these commodities and expose us to liquidity pressures to finance hedges in the Grain business in rapidly rising markets. In our Plant Nutrient and Turf & Specialty Groups, changes in the supply and demand of these commodities can also affect the value of inventories that we hold, as well as the price of raw materials as we are unable to effectively hedge these commodities. Increased costs of inventory and prices of raw material would decrease our profit margins and adversely affect our results of operations. Corn — The principal raw material the ethanol LLCs use to produce ethanol and co-products, including DDG, is corn. As a result, changes in the price of corn can significantly affect our business. In general, rising corn prices will produce lower profit margins for our ethanol business. Because ethanol competes with non-corn-based fuels, we generally will be unable to pass along increased corn costs to our customers. At certain levels, corn prices may make ethanol uneconomical to use in fuel markets. The price of corn is influenced by weather conditions and other factors affecting crop yields, farmer planting decisions and general economic, market and regulatory factors. These factors include government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade, and global and local demand and supply. The significance and relative effect of these factors on the price of corn is difficult to predict. Any event that tends to negatively affect the supply of corn, such as adverse weather or crop disease, could increase corn prices and potentially harm our share of the ethanol LLC results. The Company will attempt to lock in ethanol margins as far out as practical in order to secure reasonable returns using whatever risk management tools are available in the marketplace. In addition, we may also have difficulty, from time to time, in physically sourcing corn on economical terms due to supply shortages. High costs or shortages could require us to suspend our ethanol operations until corn is available on economical terms, which would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Grains — While we attempt to manage the risk associated with commodity price changes for our grain inventory positions with derivative instruments, including purchase and sale contracts, we are unable to offset 100% of the price risk of each transaction due to timing, availability of futures and options contracts and third party credit risk. Furthermore, there is a risk that the derivatives we employ will not be effective in offsetting the changes associated with the risks we are trying to manage. This can happen when the derivative and the underlying value of grain inventories and purchase and sale contracts are not perfectly matched. Our grain derivatives, for example, do not perfectly correlate with the basis pricing component of our grain inventory and contracts. (Basis is defined as the difference between the cash price of a commodity in our facility and the nearest exchange-traded futures price.) Differences can reflect time periods, locations or product forms. Although the basis component is smaller and generally less volatile than the futures component of our grain market price, significant unfavorable basis moves on a grain position as large as ours can significantly impact the profitability of the Grain & Ethanol Group and our business as a whole. Our futures, options and over-the-counter contracts are subject to margin calls. If there is a significant movement in the commodities market, we could be required to post significant levels of margin, which would impact our liquidity. There is no assurance that the efforts we have taken to mitigate the impact of 9 Table of Contents the volatility of the prices of commodities upon which we rely will be successful and any sudden change in the price of these commodities could have an adverse affect on our business and results of operations. Natural Gas — We rely on third parties for our supply of natural gas, which is consumed in the manufacturing of ethanol, dry wet grain, and plant nutrients. The prices for and availability of natural gas are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions often are affected by factors beyond our control such as higher prices resulting from colder than average weather conditions and overall economic conditions. Significant disruptions in the supply of natural gas could impair our ability to manufacture ethanol for our customers. Furthermore, increases in natural gas prices or changes in our natural gas costs relative to natural gas costs paid by competitors may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial position. Gasoline — In addition, we market ethanol as a fuel additive to reduce vehicle emissions from gasoline, as an octane enhancer to improve the octane rating of gasoline with which it is blended and as a substitute for oil derived gasoline. As a result, ethanol prices will be influenced by the supply and demand for gasoline and our future results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected if gasoline demand or price decreases. Potash, phosphate and nitrogen — Raw materials used by our Plant Nutrient Group include potash, phosphate and nitrogen, for which prices are volatile and driven by global and local supply and demand. Significant increases in the price of these commodities may result in lower customer demand and higher than optimal inventory levels. In contrast, reductions in the price of these commodities may create lower-of-cost-or-market inventory adjustments to inventories. Some of our business segments operate in highly regulated industries. Changes in government regulations or trade association policies could adversely affect our results of operations. Many of our business segments are subject to government regulation and regulation by certain private sector associations, compliance with which can impose significant costs on our business. Failure to comply with such regulations can result in additional costs, fines or criminal action. A significant part of our operations is regulated by environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the labeling, use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials. Because we use and handle hazardous substances in our businesses, changes in environmental requirements or an unanticipated significant adverse environmental event could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot assure you that we have been, or will at all times be, in compliance with all environmental requirements, or that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with these requirements. Private parties, including current and former employees, could bring personal injury or other claims against us due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances used, stored or disposed of by us, or contained in our products. We are also exposed to residual risk because some of the facilities and land which we have acquired may have environmental liabilities arising from their prior use. In addition, changes to environmental regulations may require us to modify our existing plant and processing facilities and could significantly increase the cost of those operations. Grain & Ethanol — In our Grain & Ethanol Group, agricultural production and trade flows can be affected by government programs and legislation. Production levels, markets and prices of the grains we merchandise can be affected by U.S. government programs, which include acreage controls and price support programs administered by the USDA. Other examples of government policies that can have an impact on our business include tariffs, duties, subsidies, import and export restrictions and outright embargoes. Because a portion of our grain sales are to exporters, the imposition of export restrictions could limit our sales opportunities. In addition, we have invested in the ethanol industry where development has been stimulated by Federal mandates for refiners to blend ethanol and excise tax credits paid to those blenders to encourage the use of ethanol. Future changes in those mandates and tax credits can have an impact on ethanol processing margins. Furthermore, there is a risk that if the CME repealed the variable storage rates in the wheat futures contracts, there could be a negative impact on liquidity. 10 Table of Contents Rail- Our Rail Group is subject to regulation by the American Association of Railroads and the Federal Railroad Administration. These agencies regulate rail operations with respect to health and safety matters. New regulatory rulings could negatively impact financial results through higher maintenance costs or reduced economic value of railcar assets. The Rail Group is also subject to risks associated with the demands and restrictions of the Class 1 railroads, a group of rail companies owning a high percentage of the existing rail lines. These companies exercise a high degree of control over whether private railcars can be allowed on their lines and may reject certain railcars or require maintenance or improvements to the railcars. This presents risk and uncertainty for our Rail Group and it can increase the Group’s maintenance costs. In addition, a shift in the railroad strategy to investing in new rail cars and improvements to existing railcars, instead of investing in locomotives and infrastructure, could adversely impact our business by causing increased competition and creating an oversupply of railcars. Our rail fleet consists of a range of railcar types (boxcars, gondolas, covered and open top hoppers, tank cars and pressure differential cars) and locomotives. However a large concentration of a particular type of railcar could expose us to risk if demand were to decrease for that railcar type. Failure on our part to identify and assess risks and uncertainties such as these could negatively impact our business. Turf & Specialty — Our Turf & Specialty Group manufactures lawn fertilizers and weed and pest control products and uses potentially hazardous materials. All products containing pesticides, fungicides and herbicides must be registered with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and state regulatory bodies before they can be sold. The inability to obtain or the cancellation of such registrations could have an adverse impact on our business. In the past, regulations governing the use and registration of these materials have required us to adjust the raw material content of our products and make formulation changes. Future regulatory changes may have similar consequences. Regulatory agencies, such as the EPA, may at any time reassess the safety of our products based on new scientific knowledge or other factors. If it were determined that any of our products were no longer considered to be safe, it could result in the amendment or withdrawal of existing approvals, which, in turn, could result in a loss of revenue, cause our inventory to become obsolete or give rise to potential lawsuits against us. Consequently, changes in existing and future government or trade association polices may restrict our ability to do business and cause our financial results to suffer. We are required to carry significant amounts of inventory across all of our businesses. If a substantial portion of our inventory becomes damaged or obsolete, its value would decrease and our profit margins would suffer. We are exposed to the risk of a decrease in the value of our inventories due to a variety of circumstances in all of our businesses. For example, within our Grain & Ethanol Group, there is the risk that the quality of our grain inventory could deteriorate due to damage, moisture, insects, disease or foreign material. If the quality of our grain were to deteriorate below an acceptable level, the value of our inventory could decrease significantly. In our Plant Nutrient Group, planted acreage, and consequently the volume of fertilizer and crop protection products applied, is partially dependent upon government programs and the perception held by the producer of demand for production. Technological advances in agriculture, such as genetically engineered seeds that resist disease and insects, or that meet certain nutritional requirements, could also affect the demand for our crop nutrients and crop protection products. Either of these factors could render some of our inventory obsolete or reduce its value. Within our Rail Group, major design improvements to loading, unloading and transporting of certain products can render existing (especially old) equipment obsolete. A significant portion of our rail fleet is composed of older railcars. In addition, in our Turf & Specialty Group, we build substantial amounts of inventory in advance of the season to prepare for customer demand. If we were to forecast our customer demand incorrectly, we could build up excess inventory which could cause the value of our inventory to decrease. Our substantial indebtedness could negatively affect our financial condition, decrease our liquidity and impair our ability to operate the business. If cash on hand is insufficient to pay our obligations or margin calls as they come due at a time when we are unable to draw on our credit facility, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct our 11 Table of Contents business. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to generate cash is dependent on various factors. These factors include general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Certain of our long-term borrowings include provisions that require minimum levels of working capital and equity, and impose limitations on additional debt. Our ability to satisfy these provisions can be affected by events beyond our control, such as the demand for and fluctuating price of grain. Although we are and have been in compliance with these provisions, noncompliance could result in default and acceleration of long-term debt payments. Adoption of new accounting rules can affect our financial position and results of operations. The Company’s implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules and interpretations could adversely affect its operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in its results in future periods. The accounting rules and regulations that the Company must comply with are complex and continually changing. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has recently introduced several new or proposed accounting standards, or is developing new proposed standards, such as International Financial Reporting Standards convergence projects, which would represent a significant change from current industry practices. Potential changes in accounting for leases, for example, will eliminate the accounting classification of operating leases, which would not only impact the way we account for leases, but may also impact our customers lease versus buy decisions and could have a negative impact on demand for our rail leases. The Company cannot predict the impact of future changes to accounting principles or its accounting policies on its financial statements going forward. We face increasing competition and pricing pressure from other companies in our industries. If we are unable to compete effectively with these companies, our sales and profit margins would decrease, and our earnings and cash flows would be adversely affected. The markets for our products in each of our business segments are highly competitive. While we have substantial operations in our region, some of our competitors are significantly larger, compete in wider markets, have greater purchasing power, and have considerably larger financial resources. We also may enter into new markets where our brand is not recognized and do not have an established customer base. Competitive pressures in all of our businesses could affect the price of, and customer demand for, our products, thereby negatively impacting our profit margins and resulting in a loss of market share. Our grain and ethanol business uses derivative contracts to reduce volatility in the commodity markets. Non-performance by the counter-parties to those contracts could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial position. A significant amount of our grain and ethanol purchases and sales are done through forward contracting. In addition, the Company uses exchange traded and over-the-counter contracts to reduce volatility in changing commodity prices. A significant adverse change in commodity prices could cause a counter-party to one or more of our derivative contracts not to perform on their obligation. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for certain of our raw materials and other products and the loss of one or several of these suppliers could increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on any one of our business segments. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for certain of our raw materials and other products. If we were unable to obtain these raw materials and products from our current vendors, or if there were significant increases in our supplier’s prices, it could significantly increase our costs and reduce our profit margins. Our investments in limited liability companies are subject to risks beyond our control. We currently have investments in six limited liability companies. By operating a business through this arrangement, we have less control over operating decisions than if we were to own the business outright. 12 Table of Contents Specifically, we cannot act on major business initiatives without the consent of the other investors who may not always be in agreement with our ideas. The Company may not be able to effectively integrate additional businesses it acquires in the future. We continuously look for opportunities to enhance our existing business through strategic acquisitions. The process of integrating an acquired business into our existing business and operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures as well as require a significant amount of management resources. There is also the risk that our due diligence efforts may not uncover significant business flaws or hidden liabilities. In addition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition and they may not generate the anticipated financial results. Additional risks may include the inability to effectively integrate the operations, products, technologies and personnel of the acquired companies. The inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies would also negatively impact operations. Our business involves considerable safety risks. Significant unexpected costs and liabilities would have a material adverse effect on our profitability and overall financial position. Due to the nature of some of the businesses in which we operate, we are exposed to significant safety risks such as grain dust explosions, fires, malfunction of equipment, abnormal pressures, blowouts, pipeline ruptures, chemical spills or run-off, transportation accidents and natural disasters. Some of these operational hazards may cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. If one of our elevators were to experience a grain dust explosion or if one of our pieces of equipment were to fail or malfunction due to an accident or improper maintenance, it could put our employees and others at serious risk. The Company’s information technology systems may impose limitations or failures which may affect the Company’s ability to conduct its business. The Company’s information technology systems, some of which are dependent on services provided by third-parties, provide critical data connectivity, information and services for internal and external users. These interactions include, but are not limited to, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting raw materials to finished products, inventory management, shipping products to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, and other processes necessary to manage the business. The Company has put in place business continuity plans for its critical systems. However, if the Company’s information technology systems are damaged, or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, such as catastrophic events, power outages, security breaches, and the Company’s business continuity plans do not effectively recover on a timely basis, the Company may suffer interruptions in the ability to manage its operations, which may adversely impact the Company’s revenues and operating results. In addition, although the system has been refreshed periodically, the infrastructure is outdated and may not be adequate to support new business processes, accounting for new transactions, or implementation of new accounting standards if requirements are complex or materially different than what is currently in place. In addition, the Company is exploring new ERP systems, which could pose risks relating to implementation. 13 Table of Contents 