ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our prospects, our operating results, our financial condition, the trading prices of our securities and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also affect our business operations. Risk Factors Relating to Our Licensed and Non-Licensed Wholesale Apparel Business The failure to maintain our license agreements could cause us to lose significant revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are dependent on sales of licensed product for a substantial portion of our revenues. In fiscal 2011, revenues from the sale of licensed product accounted for 67.6% of our net sales (74.6% of our net sales of wholesale apparel) compared to 65.4% of our net sales (73.5% of our net sales of wholesale apparel) in fiscal 2010 and 60.5% of our net sales (68.0% of net sales of wholesale apparel) in fiscal 2009. We are generally required to achieve specified minimum net sales, make specified royalty and advertising payments and receive prior approval of the licensor as to all design and other elements of a product prior to production. License agreements also may restrict our ability to enter into other license agreements for competing products. If we do not satisfy any of these requirements, a licensor usually will have the right to terminate our license. Even if a licensor does not terminate our license, the failure to achieve net sales sufficient to cover our required minimum royalty payments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If a license contains a renewal provision, there are usually minimum sales and other conditions that must be met in order to be able to renew a license. Even if we comply with all the terms of a license agreement, we cannot be sure that we will be able to renew an agreement when it expires even if we desire to do so. The failure to maintain our license agreements could cause us to lose significant revenue and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our success is dependent on the strategies and reputation of our licensors, including in particular, Calvin Klein. Our business strategy is to offer our products on a multiple brand, multiple channel and multiple price point basis. As a part of this strategy, we license the names and brands of numerous recognized companies, designers and celebrities. In entering into these license agreements, we plan our products to be targeted towards different market segments based on consumer demographics, design, suggested pricing and channel of distribution. If any of our licensors decides to “reposition” its products under the brands we license from them, introduce similar products under similar brand names or otherwise change the parameters of design, pricing, distribution, target market or competitive set, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand’s business, adversely affecting our sales and profitability. In addition, as licensed products may be personally associated with designers or celebrities, our sales of those products could be materially and adversely affected if any of those individuals’ images, reputations or popularity were to be negatively impacted. In this regard, if the current labor dispute between the owners of the National Football League and the players is not settled in the near future, there would likely be an adverse affect on our sales of NFL licensed product that could adversely affect our results of operations. We have eight different license agreements relating to a variety of products sold under the Calvin Klein brand that is owned by Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation. Sales of Calvin Klein product constitute a majority of our sales of licensed apparel. Any change by Phillips-Van Heusen in the marketing of products sold under the Calvin Klein label or any adverse change in the consumer’s perception of the Calvin Klein brand could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. We have a license agreement with Tommy Hilfiger, which is also owned by Phillips-Van Heusen. Any adverse change in our relationship with Phillips-Van Heusen would have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully translate market trends into attractive product offerings, our sales and profitability could suffer. Our ability to successfully compete depends on a number of factors, including our ability to effectively anticipate, gauge and respond to changing consumer demands and tastes across multiple product lines and tiers of distribution. We are required to translate market trends into attractive product offerings and operate within substantial production and delivery constraints. We cannot be sure we will continue to be successful in this regard. We need to anticipate and respond to changing trends quickly, efficiently and effectively in order to be successful. Expansion of our product offerings involves significant costs and uncertainty and could adversely affect our results of operations. An important part of our strategy is to expand the types of products we offer. During the past few years, we have added licenses for new lines of women’s suits, dresses, performance wear and sportswear, as well as luggage and women’s handbags and small leather goods. In addition, we acquired a dress and sportswear manufacturer. We had limited prior experience designing, manufacturing and marketing these types of products. We intend to continue to add additional product lines in the future. As is typical with new products, demand and market acceptance for any new products we introduce will be subject to uncertainty. Designing, producing and marketing new products require substantial expenditures. We cannot be certain that our efforts and expenditures will successfully generate sufficient sales or that sales that are generated will be sufficient to cover our expenditures. If our customers change their buying patterns, request additional allowances, develop their own private label brands or enter into agreements with national brand manufacturers to sell their products on an exclusive basis, our sales to these customers could be materially adversely affected. Our customers’ buying patterns, as well as the need to provide additional allowances to vendors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Customers’ strategic initiatives, including developing their own private labels brands, selling national brands on an exclusive basis or reducing the number of vendors they purchase from, could also impact our sales to these customers. We have significant customer concentration, and the loss of one of our large customers could adversely affect our business. Our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 62.7% of our net sales in fiscal 2011, 55.0% of our net sales in fiscal 2010 and 53.8% of our net sales in fiscal 2009, with Macy’s Inc. accounting for 17.3% of our net sales and the Marmaxx Group accounting for 12.4% of our net sales in fiscal 2011. Consolidation in the retail industry could increase the concentration of our sales to our largest customers. We do not have long-term contracts with any customers, and sales to customers generally occur on an order-by-order basis that may be subject to cancellation or rescheduling by the customer. A decision by our major customers to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from us, to increase the use of their own private label brands, to sell a national brand on an exclusive basis or to change the manner of doing business with us could reduce our revenues and materially adversely affect our results of operations. The loss of any of our large customers, or the bankruptcy or serious financial difficulty of any of our large customers, could have a material adverse effect on us. If we miscalculate the market for our products, we may end up with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for others. We often produce garments to hold in inventory in order to meet our customers’ delivery requirements and to be able to quickly fulfill reorders. If we misjudge the market for our products, we may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for others. In addition, weak sales and resulting markdown requests from customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are subject to the risks of doing business abroad. Our arrangements with foreign manufacturers are subject to the usual risks of doing business abroad, including currency fluctuations, political or labor instability and potential import restrictions, duties and tariffs. We do not 16 Table of Contents maintain insurance for the potential lost profits due to disruptions of our overseas manufacturers. Because our products are produced abroad, primarily in China, political or economic instability in China or elsewhere could cause substantial disruption in the business of our foreign manufacturers. For example, in the past, the Chinese government has reduced tax rebates to factories for the manufacture of textile and leather garments. The rebate reduction resulted in factories seeking to recoup more of their costs from customers, resulting in higher prices for goods imported from China. This tax rebate has been reinstated in certain instances. However, new or increased reductions in this rebate would cause an increase in the cost of finished garments from China which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Heightened terrorism security concerns could subject imported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections. This could delay deliveries or increase costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, since we negotiate our purchase orders with foreign manufacturers in United States dollars, the decline in value of the United States dollar against local currencies would negatively impact our cost in dollars of product sourced from these manufacturers. We are not currently engaged in any hedging activities to protect against currency risks. If there is downward pressure on the value of the dollar, our purchase prices for our products could increase. We may not be able to offset an increase in product costs with a price increase to our customers. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of materials used in our products could have a material adverse effect on our cost of goods sold and our ability to meet our customers’ demands. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the textiles, wool and leather used in our products could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or our ability to meet our customers’ demands. We compete with numerous entities for supplies of materials and manufacturing capacity. The supply and price of leather are vulnerable to animal diseases as well as natural disasters that can affect the supply and price of raw leather. For example, in the past, the outbreak of mad-cow and foot-and-mouth disease in Europe, and its aftereffects, adversely affected the supply and cost of leather. Any recurrence of these diseases could adversely affect us. The prices for wool and other fabrics used in our products depend largely on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them, such as raw wool or cotton. We may not be able to pass on all or any portion of higher material prices to our customers. Any raw material price increase or increase in costs related to the transport of our products (primarily petroleum costs) could increase our cost of sales and decrease our profitability unless we are able to pass higher prices on to our customers. In addition, if one or more of our competitors is able to reduce its production costs by taking greater advantage of any reductions in raw material prices, favorable sourcing agreements or new manufacturing technologies (which enable manufacturers to produce goods on a more cost-effective basis) we may face pricing pressures from those competitors and may be forced to reduce our prices or face a decline in net sales, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. During the second half of fiscal 2011, we began to experience an increase in costs, including those for raw materials, labor and freight, which we anticipate will continue in fiscal 2012. While we are taking action to reduce the effects of these cost increases on our results of operations, we cannot be sure that our actions will be effective. Our trademark and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We may, however, experience conflict with various third parties who acquire or claim ownership rights in certain trademarks. We cannot be sure that the actions we have taken to establish and protect these trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and proprietary rights of others. In the course of our attempts to expand into foreign markets, we may experience conflicts with various third parties who have acquired ownership rights in certain trademarks, which would impede our use and registration of some of our trademarks. Such conflicts are common and may arise from time to time as we pursue international expansion. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Enforcing rights to our intellectual property may be difficult and expensive, and we may not be successful in combating counterfeit products and stopping infringement of our intellectual property rights, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our trademark and 17 Table of Contents other intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our trademark and other intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights, continued sales of such competing products by third parties could harm our brands and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Retail Outlet Business Expansion of our business into the retail sector involves significant costs and uncertainties. In July 2008, we acquired 116 outlet store leases, as well as inventory, fixtures, a warehouse location and trademarks and trade names, from Wilsons The Leather Experts. As of January 31, 2011, we operated 132 retail stores. Managing the Wilsons outlet stores requires the expenditure of our time and resources. Operation of a retail chain could divert our management’s time and resources from our core wholesale apparel business. Operation of a retail chain could be viewed as competitive by our licensors and existing retail customers and adversely affect our relationships with them. Accordingly, the ownership of the Wilsons retail outlet business could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, the development and opening of Vince Camuto retail outlet stores will take up the time of Wilsons’ management that could divert their attention from the operation of our Wilsons retail outlet stores. We will need to continue to improve the results of operations of the acquired Wilsons retail outlet stores in order for these stores to operate profitably for us on an ongoing basis. We had no experience operating a retail chain prior to this acquisition. Prior to our acquisition of the Wilsons retail outlet stores, these stores as a whole were experiencing declines in comparable store sales, sales per square foot and gross margins. The operation of these stores negatively impacted our results of operations in fiscal 2009 and 2010. In fiscal 2011, we achieved an operating profit for our Wilsons retail outlet stores for the first time. We will need to further improve store operations and upgrade merchandise offered at these stores in order for these stores to continue to operate profitably for us. We had no experience operating a retail chain prior to this acquisition and cannot be sure we will be able to improve the operations of these stores on a long-term basis. If we cannot maintain or improve the results of operations of these stores on an ongoing basis, this acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our result of operations. Leasing of significant amounts of real estate exposes us to possible liabilities and losses. All of the Wilsons retail outlet stores operated by us are leased. Accordingly, we are subject to all of the risks associated with leasing real estate. Store leases generally require us to pay a fixed minimum rent and a variable amount based on a percentage of annual sales at that location. We generally cannot cancel our leases. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may be committed to perform certain obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying rent for the balance of the applicable lease term. As each of our leases expires, if we do not have a renewal option, we may be unable to negotiate a renewal, on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores in desirable locations. In addition, we may not be able to close an unprofitable store due to an existing operating covenant, which may cause us to operate the location at a loss and prevent us from finding a more desirable location. Our retail outlet stores are heavily dependent on the ability and desire of consumers to travel and shop. A reduction in the volume of outlet mall traffic could adversely affect our retail sales. Our retail outlet stores are located in outlet malls, which are typically located in or near vacation destinations or away from large population centers where department stores and other traditional retailers are concentrated. Factors, such as the current economic uncertainty in the U.S., fuel shortages, increased fuel prices, travel concerns and other circumstances, which would lead to decreased travel, could have a material adverse affect on sales at our outlet stores. Other factors which could affect the success of our outlet stores include: • the location of the outlet mall or the location of a particular store within the mall; • the other tenants occupying space at the outlet mall; 18 Table of Contents • increased competition in areas where the outlet malls are located; • a continued downturn in the economy generally or in a particular area where an outlet mall is located; and • the amount of advertising and promotional dollars spent on attracting consumers to the outlet malls. Sales at our stores are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic at the malls where our stores are located. Our stores benefit from the ability of a mall’s other tenants and other area attractions to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores and the continuing popularity of outlet malls as shopping destinations. A reduction in outlet mall traffic as a result of these or other factors could materially adversely affect our business. The retail business is intensely competitive and increased or new competition could have a material adverse effect on us. The retail industry is intensely competitive. We compete against a diverse group of retailers, including, among others, other outlet stores, department stores, specialty stores, warehouse clubs and e-commerce retailers. We also compete in particular markets with a number of retailers that specialize in the products that we sell. A number of different competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our retail business, results of operations and financial condition including: • increased operational efficiencies of competitors; • competitive pricing strategies, including deep discount pricing by a broad range of retailers during periods of poor consumer confidence or economic instability, such as the deep discounts offered during the 2008 holiday season and thereafter; • expansion of product offerings by existing competitors; • entry by new competitors into markets in which we operate retail stores; and • adoption by existing competitors of innovative retail sales methods. We may not be able to continue to compete successfully with our existing or new competitors, or be assured that prolonged periods of deep discount pricing by our competitors will not have a material adverse effect on our business. A privacy breach could adversely affect our business. The protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements across business units. In addition, customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. A significant breach of customer, employee, or company data could damage our reputation and result in lost sales, fines, or lawsuits. Risk Factors Relating to the Operation of Our Business If we lose the services of our key personnel, our business will be harmed. Our future success depends on Morris Goldfarb, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and other key personnel. The loss of the services of Mr. Goldfarb and any negative market or industry perception arising from the loss of his services could have a material adverse effect on us and the price of our shares. Our other executive officers have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could also adversely affect us. We have expanded our business through acquisitions that could result in diversion of resources, an inability to integrate acquired operations and extra expenses. This could disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial condition. Part of our growth strategy is to pursue acquisitions. In July 2005, we acquired Marvin Richards and the operating assets of Winlit, in May 2007, we acquired the operating assets of Jessica Howard, in February 2008, we 19 Table of Contents acquired Andrew Marc and in July 2008, we acquired certain assets related to the Wilsons retail outlet business. The negotiation of potential acquisitions as well as the integration of acquired businesses could divert our management’s time and resources. Acquired businesses may not be successfully integrated with our operations. We may not realize the intended benefits of any acquisition. For example, the results of Wilsons adversely affected our results of operations in fiscal 2009 and 2010. Acquisitions could also result in: • substantial cash expenditures; • potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities; • the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; • a decrease in our profit margins; • amortization of intangibles and potential impairment of goodwill; • reduction of management attention to other parts of our business; • failure to generate expected financial results or reach business goals; and • increased expenditures on human resources and related costs. If acquisitions disrupt our operations, our business may suffer. We may need additional financing to continue to grow. The continued growth of our business depends on our access to sufficient funds to support our growth. Our primary source of working capital to support our growth is our line of credit which, in May 2010, was extended from July 2011 to July 2013. Our need for working capital has increased significantly as a result of our five acquisitions since July 2005, our addition of new licenses and the expansion of our business. The maximum available under our line of credit has increased from $110 million prior to our acquisitions in July 2005 to its current level of $300 million. Our growth is dependent on our ability to continue to be able to extend and increase our line of credit. If we are unable to refinance our debt, we cannot be sure we will be able to secure alternative financing on satisfactory terms or at all. The loss of the use of this credit facility or the inability to replace this facility when it expires would materially impair our ability to operate our business. Our business is highly seasonal. Our results of operations may suffer in the event that the weather is unusually warm during the peak outerwear selling season. Retail sales of outerwear have traditionally been seasonal in nature. Sales of outerwear constitute a majority of our sales. In prior years we have been dependent on our sales from July through November for the substantial majority of our net sales and net income. Net sales in the months of July through November accounted for approximately 60% of our net sales in fiscal 2011, 64% of our net sales in fiscal 2010 and 70% of our net sales in fiscal 2009. Our Wilsons retail outlet business is also highly seasonal, with the third and fourth fiscal quarters accounting for a significant majority of its sales and operating income. As a result, we will be highly dependent on our results of operations during the second half of our fiscal year. Any difficulties we may encounter during this period as a result of weather or disruption of manufacturing or transportation of our products will have a magnified effect on our net sales and net income for the year. In addition, because of the large amount of outerwear we sell at both wholesale and retail, unusually warm weather conditions during the peak fall and winter outerwear selling season, including as a result of any change in historical climate patterns, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our quarterly results of operations for our retail business also may fluctuate based upon such factors as the timing of certain holiday seasons, the number and timing of new store openings, the acceptability of seasonal merchandise offerings, the timing and level of markdowns, store closings and remodels, competitive factors, weather and general economic conditions. The second half of the year is expected to continue to provide a disproportionate amount of our net sales and a substantial majority of our net income for the foreseeable future. 20 Table of Contents We are dependent upon foreign manufacturers. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. We also do not have long-term written agreements with any of our manufacturers. As a result, any of these manufacturers may unilaterally terminate its relationship with us at any time. Almost all of our products are imported from independent foreign manufacturers. The failure of these manufacturers to meet required quality standards could damage our relationships with our customers. In addition, the failure by these manufacturers to ship products to us in a timely manner could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers. Ocean carriers have significantly reduced capacity as a result of the decrease of imports into the U.S. that accompanied the economic downturn in 2009. This reduction in shipping supply could adversely impact our ability to timely receive products from our foreign manufacturers and could result in an increase in the cost to ship products. The failure to make timely deliveries could cause customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept delivery of products or demand reduced prices. We are also dependent on these manufacturers for compliance with our policies and the policies of our licensors and customers regarding labor practices employed by factories that manufacture product for us. Any failure by these manufacturers to comply with required labor standards or any other divergence in their labor or other practices from those generally considered ethical in the United States, and the potential negative publicity relating to any of these events, could result in a violation by us of our license agreements and harm us and our reputation. In addition, a manufacturer’s failure to comply with safety or content regulations and standards could result in substantial liability and harm to our reputation. If we do not successfully upgrade, maintain and secure our information systems to support the needs of our organization, this could have an adverse impact on the operation of our business. We rely heavily on information systems to manage operations, including a full range of financial, sourcing, retail and merchandising systems, and regularly make investments to upgrade, enhance or replace these systems. The reliability and capacity of information systems is critical. Despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses, power outages and other technical malfunctions. Any disruptions affecting our information systems, or any delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or in integrating them with current systems, could have a material adverse impact on the operation of our business. In addition, our ability to continue to operate our business without significant interruption in the event of a disaster or other disruption depends in part on the ability of our information systems to operate in accordance with our disaster recovery and business continuity plans. Risk Factors Relating to the Economy and the Apparel Industry Recent and future economic conditions, including turmoil in the financial and credit markets, may adversely affect our business. The economic and credit environment has had and could continue to have a negative impact on businesses around the world. The impact of the environment on the apparel industry and our major customers has been significant. Conditions may be depressed or may be subject to deterioration which could lead to a reduction in consumer spending overall, which could have an adverse impact on sales of our products. A disruption in the ability of our significant customers to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. A significant adverse change in a customer’s financial and/or credit position could also require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer’s receivables or could limit our ability to collect receivables related to previous purchases by that customer. As a result, our reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. 21 Table of Contents Our ability to continue to have the necessary liquidity to operate our business may be adversely impacted by a number of factors, including a continuation of the uncertain conditions in the credit and financial markets which could limit the availability and increase the cost of financing. A deterioration of our results of operations and cash flow resulting from decreases in consumer spending, could, among other things, impact our ability to comply with financial covenants in our existing credit facility. Our historical sources of liquidity to fund ongoing cash requirements include cash flows from operations, cash and cash equivalents, and borrowings through our loan agreement (which includes revolving and trade letter of credit facilities). The sufficiency and availability of credit may be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including, without limitation, the tightening of the credit markets, including lending by financial institutions who are sources of credit for our borrowing and liquidity; an increase in the cost of capital; the reduced availability of credit; our ability to execute our strategy; the level of our cash flows, which will be impacted by retailer and consumer acceptance of our products and the level of consumer discretionary spending; maintenance of financial covenants included in our loan agreement; and interest rate fluctuations. We cannot be certain that any additional required financing, whether debt or equity, will be available in amounts needed or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. As of January 31, 2011, we were in compliance with the financial covenants in our loan agreement. Compliance with these financial covenants is dependent on the results of our operations, which are subject to a number of factors including current economic conditions. The current economic environment has resulted generally in lower consumer confidence and lower retail sales. A continuation of this trend may lead to reduced consumer spending which could adversely impact our net sales and cash flow, which could affect our compliance with our financial covenants. A violation of our covenants could limit access to our credit facilities. Should such restrictions on our credit facilities and these factors occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The cyclical nature of the apparel industry and uncertainty over future economic prospects and consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The apparel industry is cyclical. Purchases of outerwear, sportswear and other apparel tend to decline during recessionary periods and may decline for a variety of other reasons, including changes in fashion trends and the introduction of new products or pricing changes by our competitors. Uncertainties regarding future economic prospects may affect consumer-spending habits and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Uncertainty with respect to consumer spending as a result of weak economic conditions has, at times, caused our customers to delay the placing of initial orders and to slow the pace of reorders during the seasonal peak of our business. Weak economic conditions have had a material adverse effect on our results of operations at times in the past and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the future as well. The competitive nature of the apparel industry may result in lower prices for our products and decreased gross profit margins. The apparel business is highly competitive. We have numerous competitors with respect to the sale of apparel, including distributors that import apparel from abroad and domestic retailers with established foreign manufacturing capabilities. Many of our competitors have greater financial and marketing resources and greater manufacturing capacity than we do. We also compete with vertically integrated apparel manufacturers that also own retail stores. The general availability of contract manufacturing capacity also allows ease of access by new market entrants. The competitive nature of the apparel industry may result in lower prices for our products and decreased gross profit margins, either of which may materially adversely affect our sales and profitability. Sales of our products are affected by style, price, quality, brand reputation and general fashion trends. If major department, mass merchant and specialty store chains continue to consolidate, our business could be negatively affected. We sell our products to major department, mass merchant and specialty store chains. Continued consolidation in the retail industry could negatively impact our business. Consolidation could reduce the number of our customers and potential customers. With increased consolidation in the retail industry, we are increasingly dependent on 22 Table of Contents retailers whose bargaining strength may increase and whose share of our business may grow. As a result, we may face greater pressure from these customers to provide more favorable terms, including increased support of their retail margins. As purchasing decisions become more centralized, the risks from consolidation increase. A store group could decide to decrease the amount of product purchased from us, modify the amount of floor space allocated to outerwear or other apparel in general or to our products specifically or focus on promoting private label products or national brand products for which it has exclusive rights rather than promoting our products. Customers are also concentrating purchases among a narrowing group of vendors. These types of decisions by our key customers could adversely affect our business. A significant increase in fuel prices could adversely affect our results of operations. Fuel prices have increased significantly at times during the past few years, began to increase during the latter part of fiscal 2011 and are expected to continue to increase in fiscal 2012. Increased gasoline prices could adversely affect consumer spending, including discretionary spending on apparel. In addition, higher fuel prices have caused our operating expenses to increase, particularly for freight. Any significant decrease in sales or increase in expenses as a result of higher fuel prices could adversely affect our results of operations. If new legislation restricting the importation or increasing the cost of textiles and apparel produced abroad is enacted, our business could be adversely affected. Legislation that would restrict the importation or increase the cost of textiles and apparel produced abroad has been periodically introduced in Congress. The enactment of new legislation or international trade regulation, or executive action affecting international textile or trade agreements, could adversely affect our business. International trade agreements that can provide for tariffs and/or quotas can increase the cost and limit the amount of product that can be imported. China’s accession agreement for membership in the World Trade Organization provides that member countries, including the United States, may impose safeguard quotas on specific products. In May 2005, the United States imposed unilateral quotas on several product categories, limiting growth in imports of these categories to 7.5% a year. These safeguard quotas were eliminated in 2009. We are unable to assess the potential for future action by the United States government with respect to any product category in the event that the quantity of imported apparel significantly disrupts the apparel market in the United States. Future action by the United States in response to a disruption in its apparel markets could limit our ability to import apparel and increase our costs. The effects of war or acts of terrorism could adversely affect our business. The continued threat of terrorism, heightened security measures and military action in response to acts of terrorism has, at times, disrupted commerce and intensified concerns regarding the United States economy. Any further acts of terrorism or new or extended hostilities may disrupt commerce and undermine consumer confidence, which could negatively impact our sales and results of operations. Other Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer may be in a position to control matters requiring a stockholder vote. As of April 1, 2011, Morris Goldfarb, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned approximately 15.3% of our common stock. His significant role in our management and his reputation in the apparel industry could make his support crucial to the approval of any major transaction involving us. As a result, he may have the ability to control the outcome on matters requiring stockholder approval including, but not limited to, the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. He also may have the ability to control our management and affairs. 23 Table of Contents The price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and could continue to fluctuate significantly. Between February 1, 2008 and April 1, 2011, the market price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $3.24 to a high of $39.95 per share. The market price of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, including: • fluctuations in our quarterly revenues or those of our competitors as a result of seasonality or other factors; • a shortfall in revenues or net income from that expected by securities analysts and investors; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or the financial performance of our competitors or companies in our industry generally; • announcements concerning our competitors; • changes in product pricing policies by our competitors or our customers; • general conditions in our industry; and • general conditions in the securities markets, such as the broad decline in stock prices that occurred from the first quarter of 2008 to the first quarter of 2009. Our actual financial results might vary from our publicly disclosed financial forecasts. From time to time, we publicly disclose financial forecasts. Our forecasts reflect numerous assumptions concerning our expected performance, as well as other factors that are beyond our control and that might not turn out to be correct. As a result, variations from our forecasts could be material. Our financial results are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those identified throughout this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this Annual Report and in the documents incorporated by reference in this Annual Report. If our actual financial results are worse than our financial forecasts, the price of our common stock may decline. We recorded significant charges for the impairment of goodwill and trademarks during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 which caused us to report a net loss for fiscal 2009. If our goodwill and other intangibles become further impaired, we may be required to record additional charges to earnings. We recorded aggregate charges of $33.5 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 for impairment charges related to goodwill in our non-licensed apparel segment and one of our trademarks. As a result, we reported a net loss for fiscal 2009. As of January 31, 2011, we had goodwill and other intangibles in an aggregate amount of $44.6 million, or approximately 9.8% of our total assets and 14.7% of our stockholders’ equity. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we review our goodwill and other intangibles for impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. The carrying value of our goodwill and other intangibles may not be recoverable due to factors such as a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and profitability and slower growth rates in our industry. Our impairment charges in fiscal 2009 were primarily the result of a decrease in our market capitalization and, to a lesser extent, from a decrease in projected revenues and profitability for one of our proprietary brands. Estimates of future cash flows and profitability are based on an updated long-term financial outlook of our operations. However, actual performance in the near-term or long-term could be materially different from these forecasts, which could impact future estimates. A further significant decline in our market capitalization or further deterioration in our projected results could result in additional impairment of goodwill and/or intangibles. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during a period in which an impairment of our goodwill is determined to exist, as happened in fiscal 2009, which would negatively impact our results of operations and could negatively impact our stock price. 24 Table of Contents We are subject to significant corporate regulation as a public company and failure to comply with all applicable regulations could subject us to liability or negatively affect our stock price. As a publicly traded company, we are subject to a significant body of regulation, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we have developed and instituted corporate compliance programs and continue to update our programs in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot provide assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable corporate regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines or other sanctions or litigation. The internal control over financial reporting required by the Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may not prevent or detect misstatements because of certain of its limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. As a result, even effective internal controls may not provide reasonable assurances with respect to the preparation and presentation of financial statements. We cannot provide assurance that, in the future, our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We also cannot provide assurance that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to state that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our Annual Report on Form 10-K or state that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. If we must disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our stock price could decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 