ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We believe that the occurrence of any one or some combination of the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risk Factors Relating to Our Operations The failure to maintain our license agreements could cause us to lose significant revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are dependent on sales of licensed product for a substantial portion of our revenues. In fiscal 2008, revenues from the sale of licensed product accounted for 70.3% of our net sales compared to 63.0% of our net sales in fiscal 2007 and 60.8% of our net sales in fiscal 2006. We are generally required to achieve specified minimum net sales, make specified royalty and advertising payments and receive prior approval of the licensor as to all design and other elements of a garment prior to production. License agreements also may restrict our ability to enter into other license agreements for competing products. If we do not satisfy any of these requirements, a licensor usually will have the right to terminate our license. Even if a licensor does not terminate our license, the failure to achieve net sales sufficient to cover our required minimum royalty payments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If a license contains a renewal provision, there are usually minimum sales and other conditions that must be met in order to be able to renew a license. Even if we comply with all the terms of a license agreement, we cannot be sure that we will be able to renew an agreement when it expires even if we desire to do so. The failure to maintain our license agreements could cause us to lose significant revenue and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our success is dependent on the strategies and reputation of our licensors. Our business strategy is to offer our products on a multiple brand, multiple channel and multiple price point basis. As a part of this strategy, we license the names and brands of numerous recognized companies, designers and celebrities. In entering into these license agreements, we plan our products to be targeted towards different market segments based on consumer demographics, design, suggested pricing and channel of distribution. If any of our licensors decides to ‘‘reposition’’ its products under the brands we license from them, introduce similar products under similar brand names or otherwise change the parameters of design, pricing, distribution, target market or competitive set, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand’s business, adversely affecting our sales and profitability. For example, we have six different license agreements relating to a variety of products sold under the Calvin Klein and IZOD brands owned by Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation. Any change by Phillips-Van Heusen in the marketing of its branded products, especially products sold under the Calvin Klein label, or in our relationship with Phillips Van-Heusen could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. In addition, as products may be personally associated with designers or celebrities, our sales of those products could be materially and adversely affected if any of those individuals’ images, reputations or popularity were to be negatively impacted. If we are unable to successfully translate market trends into attractive product offerings, our sales and profitability could suffer. Our ability to successfully compete depends on a number of factors, including our ability to effectively anticipate, gauge and respond to changing consumer demands and tastes across multiple product lines and tiers of distribution. We are required to translate market trends into attractive product offerings and operate within substantial production and delivery constraints. We cannot be sure we will continue to be successful in this regard. We need to anticipate and respond to changing trends quickly, efficiently and effectively in order to be successful. Expansion of our product offerings involves significant costs and uncertainty and could adversely affect our results of operations. An important part of our strategy is to expand the types of products we offer. During the past two years, we have added licenses for new lines of women’s suits, dresses and performance wear. In 12 addition, we acquired a dress and sportswear manufacturer. We have limited prior experience designing, manufacturing and marketing these types of products. We intend to continue to add additional product lines in the future. As is typical with new products, demand and market acceptance for any new products we introduce will be subject to uncertainty. Designing, producing and marketing new products require substantial expenditures. We cannot be certain that our efforts and expenditures will successfully generate sufficient sales or that sales that are generated will be sufficient to cover our expenditures. For example, in March 2006, we entered into a license for women’s sportswear under the Sean John label. This license was mutually terminated in January 2008, resulting in a charge to earnings in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. If our customers change their buying patterns, request additional allowances or develop their own private label brands, our sales to these customers could be materially adversely affected. Our customers’ buying patterns, as well as the need to provide additional allowances to vendors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Customers’ strategic initiatives, including developing their own private labels brands and reducing the number of vendors they purchase from, could also impact our sales to these customers. We have significant customer concentration, and the loss of one of our large customers could adversely affect our business. Our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 59.7% of our net sales in fiscal 2008 and 61.0% of our net sales in fiscal 2007, with our largest customer accounting for 18.9% of our net sales in fiscal 2008. Consolidation in the retail industry, such as the combination of the Macy’s (formerly known as Federated Department Stores) and May department store chains, has increased the concentration of our sales to our largest customers. We do not have long-term contracts with any customers, and sales to customers generally occur on an order-by-order basis that may be subject to cancellation or rescheduling by the customer. A decision by our major customers to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from us, to increase the use of their own private label brands or to change the manner of doing business with us could reduce our revenues and materially adversely affect our results of operations. The loss of any of our large customers, or the bankruptcy or serious financial difficulty of any of our large customers, could have a material adverse effect on us. If we miscalculate the market for our products, we may end up with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for others. We often produce garments to hold in inventory in order to meet our customers’ delivery requirements and to be able to quickly fulfill reorders. If we misjudge the market for our products, we may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for others. In addition, weak sales and resulting markdown requests from customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are dependent upon foreign manufacturers. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. We also do not have long-term written agreements with any of our manufacturers. As a result, any of these manufacturers may unilaterally terminate its relationship with us at any time. Almost all of our products are imported from independent foreign manufacturers. The failure of these manufacturers to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers. The failure to make timely deliveries could cause customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept delivery of products or demand reduced prices. We are also dependent on these manufacturers for compliance with our policies and the policies of our licensors and customers regarding labor practices employed by factories that manufacture product for us. Any failure by these manufacturers to comply with required labor standards or any other divergence in their labor or other practices from those generally considered ethical in the United States, and the 13 potential negative publicity relating to any of these events, could result in a violation by us of our license agreements and harm us and our reputation. In addition, a manufacturer’s failure to comply with safety or content regulations and standards could result in substantial liability and harm to our reputation. We are subject to the risks of doing business abroad. Our arrangements with foreign manufacturers are subject to the usual risks of doing business abroad, including currency fluctuations, political or labor instability and potential import restrictions, duties and tariffs. We do not maintain insurance for the potential lost profits due to disruptions of our overseas manufacturers. Because our products are produced abroad, primarily in China, political or economic instability in China or elsewhere could cause substantial disruption in the business of our foreign manufacturers. For example, in July 2007 the Chinese government reduced tax rebates to factories for the manufacture of textile and leather garments. The rebate reduction resulted in factories seeking to recoup more of their costs from customers, resulting in higher prices for goods imported from China. A further reduction in this rebate would cause a further increase in the cost of finished garments from China. This could materially adversely affect ou r financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, we cannot be sure of the disruption that may be caused to manufacturing in China as a result of the 2008 Summer Olympics being held in Beijing. The Chinese government has announced the shutdown of all polluting factories within a 200 kilometer radius of Beijing currently scheduled to begin July 17, 2008 and be in force until September 20, 2008. Different provinces may apply different policies and different time periods. The presence of a large number of foreign visitors in China may disrupt the conduct of business in China and the ability to timely and efficiently ship goods out of China. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business. There have been threats of anti-dumping cases with respect to apparel sourced from several countries, including Vietnam and China. Heightened terrorism security concerns could subject imported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections. This could delay deliveries or increase costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, since we negotiate our purchase orders with foreign manufacturers in United States dollars, the decline in value of the United States dollar against local currencies has negatively impacted our cost in dollars of product from these manufacturers. We are not currently engaged in any hedging activities to protect against these currency risks. If there is downward pressure on the value of the dollar, our purchase prices for our products could increase. We may not be able to offset an increase in product costs with a price increase to our customers. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of materials used in our products could have a material adverse effect on our cost of goods sold and our ability to meet our customers’ demands. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the leather, wool and other materials used in our products could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or our ability to meet our customers’ demands. We compete with numerous entities for supplies of materials and manufacturing capacity. The supply and price of leather are vulnerable to animal diseases as well as natural disasters that can affect the supply and price of raw leather. For example, in the past, the outbreak of mad-cow and foot-and-mouth disease in Europe, and its aftereffects, adversely affected the supply and cost of leather. Any recurrence of these diseases could adversely affect us. The prices for wool and other fabrics used in our products depend largely on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them, such as raw wool or cotton. We may not be able to pass on all or any portion of higher material prices to our customers. If we lose the services of our key personnel, our business will be harmed. Our future success depends on Morris Goldfarb, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and other key personnel. The loss of the services of Mr. Goldfarb and any negative market or industry perception arising from the loss of his services could have a material adverse effect on us and the price of our shares. Our other executive officers have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could also adversely affect us. 14 We have expanded our business through acquisitions that could result in diversion of resources, an inability to integrate acquired operations and extra expenses. This could disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial condition. Part of our growth strategy is to pursue acquisitions. For example, in July 2005, we acquired Marvin Richards and the operating assets of Winlit, in May 2007, we acquired the operating assets of Jessica Howard and Industrial Cotton, and in February 2008, we acquired Andrew Marc. The negotiation of potential acquisitions as well as the integration of acquired businesses could divert our management’s time and resources. Acquired businesses may not be successfully integrated with our operations. We may not realize the intended benefits of any acquisition. Acquisitions could also result in: • substantial cash expenditures; • potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities; • the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; • a decrease in our profit margins; • amortization of intangibles and potential impairment of goodwill; • reduction of management attention to other parts of our business; • failure to generate expected financial results or reach business goals; and • increased expenditures on human resources and related costs. If acquisitions disrupt our operations, our business may suffer. We may need additional financing to continue to grow. The continued growth of our business depends on our access to sufficient funds to support our growth. Our primary source of working capital to support our growth is our line of credit which was recently extended to July, 2011. Our need for working capital and the amount of our debt has increased significantly as a result of our four acquisitions since July 2005. The maximum available under our line of credit has increased from $110 million prior to our acquisitions in July 2005 to its current level of $250 million after our acquisition of Andrew Marc in February 2008. Our growth is dependent on our ability to continue to be able to extend and increase the line of credit. If we are unable to refinance our debt, we cannot be sure we will be able to secure alternative financing on satisfactory terms or at all. We are dependent on sales during the July through November period each year for the substantial majority of our net sales and net income. Our results of operations may suffer in the event that the weather is unusually warm during the peak outerwear selling season. Retail sales of outerwear have traditionally been seasonal in nature. Sales of outerwear constitute a significant majority of our sales. As a result, we are dependent on our sales from July through November each year for the substantial majority of our net sales and net income. Net sales in the months of July through November accounted for approximately 75% of our net sales in fiscal 2008, 81% of our net sales in fiscal 2007 and 82% of our net sales in fiscal 2006. Andrew Marc, which was acquired in February 2008, experiences seasonality similar to our outerwear business. Any difficulties we may encounter during this period as a result of weather or disruption of manufacturing or transportation of our products will have a magnified effect on our net sales and net income for the year. In addition, because of the large amount of outerwear we sell, unusually warm weather conditions during the peak fall and winter outerwear selling season could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The July through November time frame is expected to continue to provide a disproportionate amount of our net sales and net income for the foreseeable future. 15 Risk Factors Relating to the Apparel Industry The competitive nature of the apparel industry may result in lower prices for our products and decreased gross profit margins. The apparel business is highly competitive. We have numerous competitors with respect to the sale of apparel, including distributors that import apparel from abroad and domestic retailers with established foreign manufacturing capabilities. Many of our competitors have greater financial and marketing resources and greater manufacturing capacity than we do. We also compete with vertically integrated apparel manufacturers that also own retail stores. The general availability of contract manufacturing capacity also allows ease of access by new market entrants. The competitive nature of the apparel industry may result in lower prices for our products and decreased gross profit margins, either of which may materially adversely affect our sales and profitability. Sales of our products are affected by style, price, quality, brand reputation and general fashion trends. If major department, mass merchant and specialty store chains continue to consolidate, our business could be negatively affected. We sell our products to major department, mass merchant and specialty store chains. Continued consolidation in the retail industry could negatively impact our business. Consolidation could reduce the number of our customers and potential customers. With increased consolidation in the retail industry, we are increasingly dependent on retailers whose bargaining strength may increase and whose share of our business may grow. As a result, we may face greater pressure from these customers to provide more favorable terms, including increased support of their retail margins. As purchasing decisions become more centralized, the risks from consolidation increase. A store group could decide to decrease the amount of product purchased from us, modify the amount of floor space allocated to outerwear or other apparel in general or to our products specifically or focus on promoting private label products rather than our products. Customers are also concentrating purchases amo ng a narrowing group of vendors. These types of decisions by our key customers could adversely affect our business. The cyclical nature of the apparel industry and uncertainty over future economic prospects and consumer spending could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. The apparel industry is cyclical. Purchases of outerwear, sportswear and other apparel tend to decline during recessionary periods and may decline for a variety of other reasons, including changes in fashion trends and the introduction of new products or pricing changes by our competitors. Uncertainties regarding future economic prospects could affect consumer-spending habits and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Uncertainty with respect to consumer spending as a result of weak economic conditions has caused our customers to delay the placing of initial orders and to slow the pace of reorders during the seasonal peak of our business. Weak economic conditions have had a material adverse effect on our results of operations at times in the past and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the future as well. The significant increase in fuel prices could adversely affect our results of operations. Fuel prices have increased significantly during the past few years. Increased gasoline prices could adversely affect consumer spending, including discretionary spending on apparel. In addition, higher fuel prices have caused our operating expenses to increase, particularly for freight. Any significant decrease in sales or increase in expenses as a result of higher fuel prices could adversely affect our results of operations. If new legislation restricting the importation or increasing the cost of textiles and apparel produced abroad is enacted, our business could be adversely affected. Legislation that would restrict the importation or increase the cost of textiles and apparel produced abroad has been periodically introduced in Congress. The enactment of new legislation or international trade regulation, or executive action affecting international textile or trade agreements, could adversely 16 affect our business. International trade agreements that can provide for tariffs and/or quotas can increase the cost and limit the amount of product that can be imported. The quota system established by the World Trade Organization was eliminated on December 31, 2004. This elimination of quota restrictions has not had a material impact on our business. Notwithstanding quota elimination, China’s accession agreement for membership in the WTO provides that WTO member countries, including the United States, may re-impose safeguard quotas on specific products. In May 2005, the United States imposed unilateral quotas on several product categories, limiting growth in imports of these categories to 7.5% a year. The safeguard quotas in several categories have been extended by the United States government and will continue through 2008. These limitations apply to a limited number of products imported by us from China and could be expanded to categories that could result in a material adverse effect on our business. We are unable to assess the potential for additional action by the United States government with res pect to these or other product categories in the event that the quantity of imported apparel significantly disrupts the apparel market in the United States. Additional action by the United States in response to a disruption in its apparel markets could limit our ability to import apparel and increase our costs. The effects of war or acts of terrorism could adversely affect our business. The continued threat of terrorism, heightened security measures and military action in response to acts of terrorism has, at times, disrupted commerce and intensified concerns regarding the United States economy. Any further acts of terrorism or new or extended hostilities may disrupt commerce and undermine consumer confidence, which could negatively impact our sales and results of operations. Other Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer may be in a position to control matters requiring a stockholder vote. As of April 1, 2008, Morris Goldfarb, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned approximately 19.3% of our common stock. His significant role in our management and his reputation in the apparel industry could make his support crucial to the approval of any major transaction involving us. As a result, he may have the ability to control the outcome on matters requiring stockholder approval including, but not limited to, the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. He also may have the ability to control our management and affairs. The price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and could continue to fluctuate significantly. Between February 1, 2006 and April 1, 2008, the market price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $7.91 to a high of $26.74 per share. The market price of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, including: • fluctuations in our quarterly revenues or those of our competitors as a result of seasonality or other factors; • a shortfall in revenues or net income from that expected by securities analysts and investors; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or the financial performance of our competitors or companies in our industry generally; • announcements concerning our competitors; • changes in product pricing policies by our competitors or our customers; • general conditions in our industry; and • general conditions in the securities markets. Our actual financial results might vary from our publicly disclosed financial forecasts. From time to time, we publicly disclose financial forecasts. Our forecasts reflect numerous assumptions concerning our expected performance, as well as other factors which are beyond our control 17 and which might not turn out to be correct. As a result, variations from our forecasts could be material. Our financial results are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those identified throughout this ‘‘Risk Factors’’ section and elsewhere in this Annual Report and in the documents incorporated by reference in this Annual Report. If our actual financial results are worse than our financial forecasts, the price of our common stock may decline. We are subject to ongoing costs and risks associated with complying with extensive corporate governance and disclosure requirements. As a public company, we spend a significant amount of management time and resources to comply with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, SEC regulations and Nasdaq rules. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestations of the effectiveness of these controls by our management and by our independent registered public accounting firm. We recently completed our first Section 404 report with respect to fiscal 2008. However, there is no guarantee that these efforts will result in management assurance or an attestation by our independent registered public accounting firm that our internal control over financial reporting is adequate in future periods. In connection with our compliance with Section 404 and other applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, ou r management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time, and we may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff, to assure that we comply with these requirements. The additional management attention and costs relating to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other corporate governance requirements could materially and adversely affect our financial results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 