Risk Factors We believe that the occurrence of any one or some combination of the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition and Marketplace The apparel business is highly competitive. We have numerous competitors with respect to the sale of leather and textile apparel, including distributors that import leather apparel from abroad and domestic retailers with established foreign manufacturing capabilities. Many of our competitors have greater financial and marketing resources and greater manufacturing capacity than we do. We also compete with vertically integrated apparel manufacturers that also own retail stores. The aggressive and competitive nature of the apparel industry may result in lower prices for our products and decreased gross profit margins, either of which may materially adversely affect our sales and profitability. Sales of our products are affected by style, price, quality and general fashion trends. 8 We sell our products to major department, mass merchant and specialty store chains. Continued consolidation in the industry, such as the proposed purchase of May Department Store Company by Federated Department Stores, Inc., could negatively impact our business. Our customers' buying patterns, as well as the need to provide additional allowances to vendors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Customers' strategic initiatives, including developing their own private labels brands and reducing the number of vendors they purchase from, could also impact our sales to these customers. Dependence on Licensed Product We are dependent on sales of licensed product for a substantial portion of our revenues. In fiscal 2005, revenues from the sale of licensed product accounted for 68.0% of our net sales compared to 78.4% of our net sales in fiscal 2004 and 52.8% of our net sales in fiscal 2003. We are generally required to achieve specified minimum net sales, pay specified royalties and advertising payments and receive prior approval of the licensor as to all elements of a garment prior to production. License agreements also may restrict our ability to enter into other license agreements for competing products. If we do not satisfy any of these requirements, a licensor usually will have the right to terminate our license. Even if a licensor does not terminate our license, the failure to achieve net sales sufficient to cover our required minimum royalty payments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If a license contains a renewal provision, there are usually minimum sales and other conditions that must be met in order to be able to renew a license. Even if we comply with all the terms of a licensing agreement, we cannot be sure that we will be able to renew an agreement when it expires even if we desire to do so. Nature of Apparel Industry Our ability to successfully compete depends on a number of factors, including our ability to effectively anticipate, gauge and respond to changing consumer demands and tastes across multiple product lines and tiers of distribution. We are required to translate market trends into attractive product offerings and operate within substantial production and delivery constraints. We cannot be sure we will continue to be successful in this regard. For example, a key part of our success in fiscal 2004 was a result of increased sales of fashion sports apparel. This trend did not continue in fiscal 2005 and, as a result, our results of operations were materially adversely affected. We need to respond to changing trends in order to be successful. We often produce garments to hold in inventory in order to meet our customers' delivery requirements and to be able to quickly fulfill reorders. If we misjudge the market for our products, we may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities with others. In addition, weak sales and resulting markdown requests from customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The apparel industry is cyclical. Purchases of outerwear, sportswear and other apparel tend to decline during recessionary periods and sales of our products may decline at other times as well for a variety of reasons, including changes in fashion trends and the introduction of new products or pricing changes by our competitors. Uncertainties regarding future economic prospects could affect consumer-spending habits and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Uncertainty with respect to consumer spending as a result of weak economic conditions has in the past caused our customers to delay the placing of initial orders and to slow the pace of reorders during the seasonal peak of our business. This had a material adverse effect on our results of operations at times in the past and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the future as well. Dependence on Key Personnel We are dependent on Morris Goldfarb and other key personnel. The loss of the services of Mr. Goldfarb and any negative market or industry perception arising from the loss of his services could have a material adverse effect on us and the price of our shares. Our other executive officers have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could adversely affect us. 9 Doing Business Abroad and Dependence on Independent Foreign Manufacturers Our arrangements with foreign manufacturers are subject to the usual risks of doing business abroad, including currency fluctuations, political instability and potential import restrictions, duties and tariffs. We do not maintain insurance for the potential lost profits due to disruptions of our overseas factories. Because our products are produced abroad, political and/or economic instability in China or elsewhere could cause substantial disruption in the business of our foreign manufacturers. This could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Almost all of our products are imported from independent foreign manufacturers. Our dependence on independent manufacturers has increased as a result of the closing of our Indonesian manufacturing facility and the sale of our joint venture interest in a manufacturing facility in China. The failure of independent manufacturers to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers. The failure to make timely deliveries could cause customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept delivery of products or demand reduced prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are also dependent on these manufacturers for compliance with our policies and the policies of our licensors and customers regarding labor practices. In addition, since we negotiate our purchase orders with foreign manufacturers in United States dollars, the value of the United States dollar against local currencies could impact our cost in dollars of production from these manufacturers. If there is continued downward pressure on the value of the dollar, our purchase prices for our products could increase. We may not be able to offset an increase in product costs with a price increase to our customers. Quotas and Other Trade Regulation Legislation that would restrict the importation or increase the cost of textiles and apparel produced abroad has been periodically introduced in Congress. The enactment of new legislation or international trade regulation, or executive action affecting international textile or trade agreements, could adversely affect our business. International trade agreements that can provide for tariffs and/or quotas can increase the cost and limit the amount of product that can be imported. The quota system established by the World Trade Organization was eliminated on December 31, 2004. We cannot be certain of the full impact that this elimination will have on international trade in general and the apparel industry in particular. We also cannot be certain of the impact of quota elimination on our business, including increased competition that could result from the importation of an increasing amount of lower priced apparel into the United States. Notwithstanding quota elimination, China's accession agreement for membership in the WTO provides that WTO member countries, including the United States, may re-impose quotas on specific product. We are unable to assess the potential for action by the United States government in the event that the quantity of imported apparel significantly disrupts the apparel market in the United States. Action by the United States in response to a disruption in its apparel market could limit our ability to import apparel and increase our costs. Need for Financing The continued growth of our business depends on our access to sufficient funds to support our growth. Our primary source of working capital to support our growth is our existing line of credit. We have had this line of credit for over ten years and have been able to increase the maximum availability under this line several times in the past few years. This line of credit expires on May 31, 2008. Our growth is dependent on our ability to continue to extend and increase this line of credit. If we are unable to do so, we cannot be sure we will be able to secure alternative financing on satisfactory terms. Raw Materials Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of leather or other raw materials used by us could have a material adverse effect on our cost of goods sold and ability to meet customer demands. We compete with numerous entities for supplies of raw materials and manufacturing and tanning capacity. The supply of leather is vulnerable to animal diseases as well as natural disasters that can affect the supply 10 and price of raw leather. For example, in the past the outbreak of mad-cow and foot-and-mouth disease in Europe, and its after effects, adversely affected the supply of leather. Any reoccurrence of these diseases could adversely affect us. General Business Risks In addition to the factors described above, our business, including our revenues and profitability, is influenced by and subject to a number of factors that are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict including, among others: the variability of our results in any period due to the seasonal nature of the business; risks associated with consolidations, restructurings and other ownership changes in the retail industry; changes in regional, national and global economic conditions; and our ability to correctly balance the level of our finished goods, leather and other raw material commitments with actual orders. Control by Principal Stockholders As of March 31, 2005, Morris Goldfarb and Aron Goldfarb beneficially own an aggregate of approximately 53.0% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, if they vote together, they effectively have the ability to control the outcome on all matters requiring stockholder approval including, but not limited to, the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. They also have the ability to control our management and affairs. Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act We are required to comply with the internal control evaluation and certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by no later than the end of our 2007 fiscal year. We have only recently begun the process of determining whether our existing internal controls over financial reporting systems are compliant with Section 404. This process may divert internal resources and will take a significant amount of time and effort to complete. If it is determined that we are not in compliance with Section 404, we may be required to implement new internal control procedures and reevaluate our financial reporting. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses as well as outside auditor fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. Further, we may need to hire additional qualified personnel in order for us to be compliant with Section 404. If we are unable to implement these changes effectively or efficiently, it could harm our operations, financial reporting or financial results and could result in our being unable to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our independent auditors. Employees As of January 31, 2005, we had 384 full-time employees, of whom 78 worked in executive, administrative or clerical capacities, 158 worked in design, merchandising and manufacturing, 110 worked in warehouse facilities, and 38 worked in sales. We employ both union and non-union personnel and believe that our relations with our employees are good. We have not experienced any interruption of any of our operations due to a labor disagreement with our employees. We are a party to an agreement with the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union, covering approximately 75 full-time employees as of January 31, 2005. This agreement, which is currently in effect through October 31, 2005, automatically renews on an annual basis thereafter unless terminated by us or the union prior to September 1 of that year. Website Access to Reports Our internet website is http://www.g-iii.com. We make available free of charge on our website (under the heading "About G-III") our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 11 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our executive officers. Name Age Position Executive Officer or Significant Employee Since Morris Goldfarb 54 Co-Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Director 1974 Jeanette Nostra-Katz 52 President 1981 Wayne S. Miller 47 Senior Vice President, Chief Operating and Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary 1998 Deborah Gaertner 50 Vice President – Women's Sales Division of G-III Leather Fashions 1989 Keith Sutton-Jones 55 Vice President – Foreign Manufacturing of G-III Leather Fashions 1989 Neal S. Nackman 45 Vice President – Finance 2003 Morris Goldfarb is our Co-Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, as well as one of our directors. Until April 1997, Mr. Goldfarb also served as our President. Mr. Goldfarb has served as an executive officer of the Company and our predecessors since our formation in 1974. Mr. Goldfarb is also a director of Lakes Entertainment, Inc. Jeanette Nostra-Katz became our President in April 1997. She had been our Executive Vice President since March 1992. Ms. Nostra-Katz's responsibilities for the Company include sales, marketing, public relations, and operations as they relate to sales. We have employed Ms. Nostra-Katz since 1981. Wayne S. Miller has been our Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President since April 1998. In December 2003, Mr. Miller was appointed Chief Operating Officer. In November 1998, Mr. Miller was elected Secretary and Treasurer. Prior to his joining G-III, Mr. Miller held various senior level positions in the apparel industry. Deborah Gaertner is the Vice President – Women's Division of G-III Leather Fashions and has held this position since March 1992. Ms. Gaertner is responsible for sales and marketing of certain of our women's apparel lines. She previously served as Vice President, Imports from June 1989 until March 1992, coordinating production and merchandising. Keith Sutton-Jones is the Vice President – Foreign Manufacturing of G-III Leather Fashions and has been employed in this capacity since January 1989. His responsibilities include coordinating and controlling all aspects of our Far Eastern sourcing and production. Neal S. Nackman has been our Vice President – Finance since December 2003. Prior to joining G-III, Mr. Nackman was a financial consultant with Jefferson Wells International from January 2003 until December 2003. From May 2001 until October 2002, he was Senior Vice President - Controller of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, Inc. From May 1999 until May 2001, he was Chief Financial Officer of Perry Ellis International Inc. From August 1995 until May 1999, he was the Vice-President – Finance with Nautica Enterprises, Inc. Aron Goldfarb, one of our directors, and Morris Goldfarb are father and son, respectively. Carl Katz, one of our directors, and Jeanette Nostra-Katz are married to each other. 