ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face, as our business and operations may also be subject to risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently believe are immaterial. If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information contained herein, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Unless the context requires otherwise, "we," "us," "our" and "EOG" refer to EOG Resources, Inc. and its subsidiaries. A substantial or extended decline in crude oil or natural gas prices could have a material and adverse effect on us. Prices for crude oil and natural gas (including prices for natural gas liquids (NGLs) and condensate) fluctuate widely. Among the factors that can or could cause these price fluctuations are: · the level of consumer demand; · domestic and worldwide supplies of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas; · the price and quantity of imported and exported crude oil, NGLs and natural gas; · weather conditions and changes in weather patterns; · domestic and international drilling activity; · the availability, proximity and capacity of transportation facilities, gathering, processing and compression facilities and refining facilities; · worldwide economic and political conditions, including political instability or armed conflict in oil and gas producing regions; · the price and availability of, and demand for, competing energy sources, including alternative energy sources; · the nature and extent of governmental regulation (including environmental regulation and regulation of derivatives transactions and hedging activities) and taxation; · the level and effect of trading in commodity futures markets, including trading by commodity price speculators and others; and · the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. Our cash flows and results of operations depend to a great extent on the prevailing prices for crude oil and natural gas. Prolonged or substantial declines in crude oil and/or natural gas prices may materially and adversely affect our liquidity, the amount of cash flows we have available for our capital expenditures and other operating expenses, our ability to access the credit and capital markets and our results of operations. In addition, if we expect or experience significant sustained decreases in crude oil and natural gas prices such that the expected future cash flows from our crude oil and natural gas properties falls below the net book value of our properties, we may be required to write down the value of our crude oil and natural gas properties. Any such asset impairments could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and, in turn, the trading price of our common stock. Drilling crude oil and natural gas wells is a high-risk activity and subjects us to a variety of risks that we cannot control. Drilling crude oil and natural gas wells, including development wells, involves numerous risks, including the risk that we may not encounter commercially productive crude oil and natural gas reserves (including "dry holes"). As a result, we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in new wells. Specifically, we often are uncertain as to the future cost or timing of drilling, completing and operating wells, and our drilling operations and those of our third-party operators may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, the cost of such operations may increase and/or our results of operations and cash flows from such operations may be impacted, as a result of a variety of factors, including: · unexpected drilling conditions; · title problems; · pressure or irregularities in formations; 16 · equipment failures or accidents; · adverse weather conditions, such as winter storms, flooding and hurricanes, and changes in weather patterns; · compliance with, or changes in, environmental laws and regulations relating to air emissions, hydraulic fracturing and disposal of produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes, laws and regulations imposing conditions and restrictions on drilling and completion operations and other laws and regulations, such as tax laws and regulations; · the availability and timely issuance of required governmental permits and licenses; · the availability of, costs associated with and terms of contractual arrangements for properties, including mineral licenses and leases, pipelines, rail cars, crude oil hauling trucks and qualified drivers and related facilities and equipment to gather, process, compress, transport and market crude oil, natural gas and related commodities; and · the costs of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs, hydraulic fracturing services, pressure pumping equipment and supplies, tubular materials, water, sand, disposal facilities, qualified personnel and other necessary equipment, materials, supplies and services. Our failure to recover our investment in wells, increases in the costs of our drilling operations or those of our third-party operators, and/or curtailments, delays or cancellations of our drilling operations or those of our third-party operators in each case due to any of the above factors or other factors, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For related discussion of the risks and potential losses and liabilities inherent in our crude oil and natural gas operations generally, see the immediately following risk factor. Our crude oil and natural gas operations involve many risks and expose us to potential losses and liabilities, and insurance may not fully protect us against these risks and potential losses and liabilities. Our onshore and offshore operations are subject to all of the risks associated with exploring and drilling for, and producing, gathering, processing and transporting, crude oil and natural gas, including the risks of: · well blowouts and cratering; · loss of well control; · crude oil spills, natural gas leaks and pipeline ruptures; · pipe failures and casing collapses; · uncontrollable flows of crude oil, natural gas, formation water or drilling fluids; · releases of chemicals or other hazardous substances; · adverse weather conditions, such as winter storms, flooding and hurricanes, and other natural disasters; · fires and explosions; · terrorism, vandalism and physical, electronic and cyber security breaches; · formations with abnormal pressures; and · malfunctions of gathering, processing and other equipment. If any of these events occur, we could incur losses and liabilities as a result of: · injury or loss of life; · damage to, or destruction of, property, equipment and crude oil and natural gas reservoirs; · pollution or other environmental damage; · regulatory investigations and penalties as well as clean-up and remediation responsibilities and costs; · suspension or interruption of our operations, including due to injunction; and · repairs necessary to resume operations. 17 We maintain insurance against many, but not all, such losses and liabilities in accordance with what we believe are customary industry practices and in amounts and at costs that we believe to be prudent and commercially practicable. The occurrence of any of these events and any losses or liabilities incurred as a result of such events, if uninsured or in excess of our insurance coverage, would reduce the funds available to us for our onshore and offshore exploration, exploitation, development and production activities and could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to sell and deliver our crude oil and natural gas production could be materially and adversely affected if adequate gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities are unavailable. The sale of our crude oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including the availability, proximity and capacity of, and costs associated with, gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities owned by third parties. These facilities may be temporarily unavailable to us due to market conditions, mechanical reasons or other factors or conditions, and may not be available to us in the future on terms we consider acceptable, if at all. In particular, in certain newer shale plays, the capacity of gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities may not be sufficient to accommodate potential production from existing and new wells. In addition, lack of financing, construction and permitting delays, permitting costs and other constraints could limit or delay the construction of new gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities by third parties or us, and we may experience delays or increased costs in accessing the pipelines, gathering systems or rail systems necessary to transport our production to points of sale or delivery. Any significant change in market or other conditions affecting gathering, processing, compression or transportation facilities or the availability of these facilities, including due to our failure or inability to obtain access to these facilities on terms acceptable to us or at all, could materially and adversely affect our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to acquire or find sufficient additional reserves over time, our reserves and production will decline from their current levels. The rate of production from crude oil and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are produced. Except to the extent that we conduct successful exploration, exploitation and development activities, acquire additional properties containing reserves or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, our reserves will decline as they are produced. Maintaining our production of crude oil and natural gas at, or increasing our production from, current levels, is, therefore, highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves, which could in turn impact our future cash flows and results of operations. We incur certain costs to comply with government regulations, particularly regulations relating to environmental protection and safety, and could incur even greater costs in the future. Our exploration, production and marketing operations are regulated extensively by federal, state and local governments and regulatory agencies, both domestically and in the foreign countries in which we do business, and are subject to interruption or termination by governmental and regulatory authorities based on environmental or other considerations. Moreover, we have incurred and will continue to incur costs in our efforts to comply with the requirements of environmental, safety and other regulations. Further, the regulatory environment in the oil and gas industry could change in ways that we cannot predict and that might substantially increase our costs of compliance and, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Specifically, as a current or past owner or lessee and operator of crude oil and natural gas properties, we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign regulations relating to the discharge of materials into, and the protection of, the environment. These regulations may, among other things, impose liability on us for the cost of pollution cleanup resulting from current or past operations, subject us to liability for pollution damages and require suspension or cessation of operations in affected areas. Moreover, we are subject to the United States (U.S.) Environmental Protection Agency's (U.S. EPA) rule requiring annual reporting of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Changes in, or additions to, these regulations could lead to increased operating and compliance costs and, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 18 Local, state, national and international regulatory bodies have been increasingly focused on GHG emissions and climate change issues in recent years. EOG is unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future laws, regulations or treaties regarding climate change and GHG emissions, but the direct and indirect costs of such laws, regulations and treaties (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect EOG's operations, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there have been various proposals to regulate hydraulic fracturing in the U.S. at the federal level. Currently, the regulation of hydraulic fracturing in the U.S. is primarily conducted at the state level (and, in Canada, at the provincial and local levels) through permitting and other compliance requirements. Any new federal regulations that may be imposed on hydraulic fracturing could result in additional permitting and disclosure requirements and in additional operating restrictions. Moreover, some state and local governments have imposed or have considered imposing various conditions and restrictions on drilling and completion operations. Any such federal or state requirements, restrictions or conditions could lead to operational delays and increased operating and compliance costs and, moreover, could delay or effectively prevent the development of crude oil and natural gas from formations which would not be economically viable without the use of hydraulic fracturing. Accordingly, our production of crude oil and natural gas could be materially and adversely affected. For additional discussion regarding climate change regulation and hydraulic fracturing regulation, see Climate Change - United States, Hydraulic Fracturing - United States and Environmental Regulation - Canada under ITEM 1. Business - Regulation. We will continue to monitor and assess any proposed or new policies, legislation, regulations and treaties in the areas where we operate to determine the impact on our operations and take appropriate actions, where necessary. We are unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future laws, regulations or treaties, but the direct and indirect costs of such laws, regulations and treaties (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. For related discussion, see the risk factor below regarding the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act with respect to regulation of derivatives transactions and entities (such as EOG) that participate in such transactions. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to crude oil and natural gas exploration and production may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to U.S. tax laws, including the elimination of certain U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to crude oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs. It is unclear whether such changes or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The enactment of such changes or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could materially and adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. A portion of our crude oil and natural gas production may be subject to interruptions that could have a material and adverse effect on us. A portion of our crude oil and natural gas production may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for various reasons, including, but not limited to, as a result of accidents, weather conditions, loss of gathering, processing, compression or transportation facility access or field labor issues, or intentionally as a result of market conditions such as crude oil or natural gas prices that we deem uneconomic. If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted, our cash flows and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate. Some of the properties in which we have an interest are operated by other companies and involve third-party working interest owners. As a result, we have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of such properties, including compliance with environmental, safety and other regulations, or the amount of capital expenditures that we will be required to fund with respect to such properties. Moreover, we are dependent on the other working interest owners of such projects to fund their contractual share of the capital expenditures of such projects. In addition, a third-party operator could also decide to shut-in or curtail production from wells, or plug and abandon marginal wells, on properties owned by that operator during periods of lower crude oil or natural gas prices. These limitations and our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects could cause us to incur unexpected future costs, lower production and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 19 If we acquire crude oil and natural gas properties, our failure to fully identify existing and potential problems, to accurately estimate reserves, production rates or costs, or to effectively integrate the acquired properties into our operations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we seek to acquire crude oil and natural gas properties. Although we perform reviews of properties to be acquired in a manner that we believe is duly diligent and consistent with industry practices, reviews of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor may they permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties in order to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Even when problems with a property are identified, we often may assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties pursuant to the acquisition agreements. In addition, there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of crude oil and natural gas reserves (as discussed further below), actual future production rates and associated costs with respect to acquired properties. Actual reserves, production rates and costs may vary substantially from those assumed in our estimates. In addition, an acquisition may have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations, particularly during the periods in which the operations of the acquired properties are being integrated into our ongoing operations or if we are unable to effectively integrate the acquired properties into our ongoing operations. We have substantial capital requirements, and we may be unable to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms, if at all. We make, and will continue to make, substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas reserves. We intend to finance our capital expenditures primarily through our cash flows from operations, commercial paper borrowings, sales of assets and borrowings under other uncommitted credit facilities and, to a lesser extent and if and as necessary, bank borrowings, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and public and private equity and debt offerings. Lower crude oil and natural gas prices, however, would reduce our cash flows. Further, if the condition of the credit and capital markets materially declines, we might not be able to obtain financing on terms we consider acceptable, if at all. In addition, weakness and/or volatility in domestic and global financial markets or economic conditions may increase the interest rates that lenders and commercial paper investors require us to pay and adversely affect our ability to finance our capital expenditures through equity or debt offerings or other borrowings. A reduction in our cash flows (for example, as a result of lower crude oil and natural gas prices) and the corresponding adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations may also increase the interest rates that lenders and commercial paper investors require us to pay. In addition, a substantial increase in interest rates would decrease our net cash flows available for reinvestment. Any of these factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The inability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to satisfy their obligations to us may have a material and adverse effect on us. We have various customers for the crude oil, natural gas and related commodities that we produce as well as various other contractual counterparties, including several financial institutions and affiliates of financial institutions. Domestic and global economic conditions, including the financial condition of financial institutions generally, have weakened in recent years and remain relatively weak. In addition, there continues to be weakness and volatility in domestic and global financial markets relating to the credit crisis in recent years, and corresponding reaction by lenders to risk. These conditions and factors may adversely affect the ability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to pay amounts owed to us from time to time and to otherwise satisfy their contractual obligations to us, as well as their ability to access the credit and capital markets for such purposes. Moreover, our customers and other contractual counterparties may be unable to satisfy their contractual obligations to us for reasons unrelated to these conditions and factors, such as the unavailability of required facilities or equipment due to mechanical failure or market conditions. Furthermore, if a customer is unable to satisfy its contractual obligation to purchase crude oil, natural gas or related commodities from us, we may be unable to sell such production to another customer on terms we consider acceptable, if at all, due to the geographic location of such production, the availability, proximity or capacity of gathering, processing, compression and transportation facilities or market or other factors and conditions. 20 The inability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to pay amounts owed to us and to otherwise satisfy their contractual obligations to us may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Competition in the oil and gas exploration and production industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater resources than we have. We compete with major integrated oil and gas companies, government-affiliated oil and gas companies and other independent oil and gas companies for the acquisition of licenses and leases, properties and reserves and the equipment, materials, services and employees and other contract personnel (including geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other specialists) required to explore for, develop, produce and market crude oil and natural gas. In addition, many of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than those we possess and have established strategic long-term positions and strong governmental relationships in countries in which we may seek new or expanded entry. As a consequence, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in certain respects, such as in bidding for drilling rights or in acquiring necessary services, equipment, materials and personnel. In addition, many of our larger competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to factors that affect demand for crude oil and natural gas, such as changing worldwide prices and levels of production and the cost and availability of alternative fuels. We also face competition, to a lesser extent, from competing energy sources, such as alternative energy sources. Reserve estimates depend on many interpretations and assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations and assumptions could cause the reported quantities of our reserves to be materially misstated. Estimating quantities of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows from such reserves is a complex, inexact process. It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors, made by our management and our independent petroleum consultants. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could cause the reported quantities of our reserves and future net cash flows from such reserves to be overstated or understated. Also, the data for a given reservoir may also change substantially over time as a result of numerous factors including, but not limited to, additional development activity, evolving production history and continual reassessment of the viability of production under varying economic conditions. To prepare estimates of our economically recoverable crude oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows from our reserves, we analyze many variable factors, such as historical production from the area compared with production rates from other producing areas. We also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also involves economic assumptions relating to commodity prices, production costs, severance and excise taxes, capital expenditures and workover and remedial costs, many of which factors are or may be beyond our control. Our actual reserves and future net cash flows from such reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance, including any significant revisions or "write-downs" to our existing reserve estimates, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, the trading price of our common stock. For related discussion, see 