ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSBefore deciding to invest in us or deciding to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below and in our other filings are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose your investment.Our business and earnings have been adversely affected, and may continue to be adversely affected, by the U .S. and international financial market and economic conditions. The performance of our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by general business and economic conditions in the United States, including the level and volatility of short- and long-term interest rates, inflation, home prices, unemployment and under-employment levels, bankruptcies, household income, consumer spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, liquidity of the global financial markets, the availability and cost of credit, investor confidence and the strength of the U.S. economy. Continued deterioration of any of these conditions can adversely affect our consumer and commercial businesses and securities portfolios, as well as our earnings. In 2010, continuing weak and volatile economic conditions in the United States continued to adversely af fect our business and our earnings. While there are early indications that the U.S. economy is stabilizing, there remains significant uncertainty regarding the sustainability of the economic recovery, unemployment levels and the impact of the U.S. government's unwinding of its extensive economic and market support.Our banking business is highly regulated, which could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. Bank holding companies and banks operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and examination by federal and state regulatory agencies. We are subject to the BHC Act and to regulation and supe rvision by the Federal Reserve Board. Our banking subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by their respective federal and state regulatory agencies, which currently include the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the California Department of Financial Institutions, the Washington State Department of Financial Institutions and the FDIC. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters including changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies, maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution, permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments, permissible nonbanking activities, the level of reserves against deposits and restrictions on dividend payments. The FDIC, the California Department of Financial Institutions, the Washington State D epartment of Financial Institutions, and the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks possess the power to issue cease and desist orders to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulation, and the Federal Reserve Board possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. These and other restrictions limit the manner in which we and our banking subsidiaries may conduct business and obtain financing. Our banking business is also affected by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary or legislative policies may affect the interest rates our banking subsidiaries must offer to attract deposits and the interest rates they must charge on their loans, as well as the manner in which they offer deposits and make loans. These monetary policies have had, and are expected to continue to have, significant effects on the operating results of depository institutions generally, including our banking subsidiaries. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act, which comprehensively reforms the regulation of financial institutions, products and services, was signed into law. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act grants the Federal Reserve Board increased supervisory authority and codifies the source of strength doctrine. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides for new capital standards that eliminate the treatment of trust preferred securities as Tier I capital, however existing trust preferred securities are grandfathered for banking entities with less than $15 billion of assets, such as the Company. The Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB as an independent bureau of the Federal Reserve Board. The CFPB has the authority to prescribe rules fo r all depository institutions governing the provision of consumer financial products and services, which may result in rules and regulations that reduce the profitability of such products and services or impose greater costs on us and our subsidiaries. Our banking subsidiaries will continue to be examined by their primary federal regulator for compliance with such rules.14Table of Contents < /font> The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently raises deposit insurance levels to $250,000, retroactive to January 1, 2008. Pursuant to modifications under the Dodd-Frank Act, deposit insurance assessments will be calculated based on an insured depository institution's assets rather than its insured deposits and the minimum reserve ratio of the FDIC's Deposit Insurance Fund will be raised to 1.35%. The payment of interest on business demand deposit accounts is permitted by the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the Federal Reserve Board to regulate interchange fees for debit card transactions and establishes new minimum mortga ge underwriting standards for residential mortgages. Because many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, it is difficult to forecast the impact that such rulemaking will have on us, our customers or the financial industry. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that affect deposit insurance assessments, the payment of interest on demand deposits and interchange fees could increase the costs associated with our banking subsidiaries' deposit-generating activities, as well as place limitations on the revenues that those deposits may generate. For example, the Federal Reserve Board has proposed rules governing debit card interchange fees that apply to institutions with greater than $10 billion in assets. Market forces may effectively require all banks to adopt debit card interchange fee structure s which comply with these rules.Regulators may raise capital requirements above current levels in connection with the implementation of Basel III, the Dodd-Frank Act or otherwise, which may require us and our banking subsidiaries to hold additional capital which could limit the manner in which we and our banking subsidiaries conduct their business and obtain financing. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III in the United States, or otherwise, could result in us and our banking subsidiaries having to lengthen the term of their funding, restructure their business models, and/or increase their holdings of liquid assets. If the federal banking agencies implement a capital conservation buffer and/or a countercyclical capital buffer, as proposed in Basel III, a failure by us or any of our bank ing subsidiaries to satisfy the applicable buffer's requirements would limit such institution's ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares.We may incur significant losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies.We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application may not be effective and may not anticipate every economic and financial outcome in all market environments or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Market conditions over the last several years have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk.We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for the best people can be intense and we may not be able to hire or retain the key personnel that we depend upon for success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a mater ial adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of the markets in which we operate, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is harmed. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees at our banking, investment management and wealth advisory subsidiaries could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is damaged. Our actual or perceived failure to address various issues could give rise to reputational risk that could cause harm to us and our business prospects, including failure to pr operly address operational risks. These issues also include, but are not limited to, legal and regulatory requirements; privacy; properly maintaining customer and employee personal information; record keeping; money-laundering; sales and trading practices; ethical issues; appropriately addressing potential conflicts of interest; and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our products. Failure to appropriately address any of these issues could also give rise to additional regulatory restrictions, reputational harm and legal risks, which could, among other consequences, increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses.15Table of Contents Our inability to realize expected benefits from reorganizations, acquisitions and divestitures could adversely affect our results. Reorganizations and acquisitions. including our plan to merge the Banks into one consolidated banking entity, involve various risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • loss of key clients or employees; • failure of the acquired or reorganized business to perform in accordance with our expectations; • difficulties and expenses in connection with the integration of operations and personnel; • significant investments in infrastructure, controls, staff, emergency backup facilities or other critical business functions that become strained by our growth; • diversion of our management's time and attention away from other aspects of our business; and• exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired company.With respect to our past divestitures and any proposed reorganization, our business may be negatively impacted by the risk that our business reputation may be adversely impacted or the risk that a divestiture or reorganization will not have the anticipated positive impact on our consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of operations, and consolidated statements of cash flows. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock inc lude: • quarterly variations in our operating results or the quality of our assets; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • & nbsp; announcements of innovations, new products, strategic developments, significant contracts, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; • the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us; • our past and future dividend practices; • future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; and • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity or real estate valuations or volatility. Defaults in the repayment of loans may require additional loan loss reserves and negatively impact our banking business. A borrower's default on its obligations under one or more of the banking subsidiaries' loans may result in lost principal and interest income and increased operating expenses as a result of the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work-out of the loan. In certain situations, where collection efforts are unsuccessful or acceptable work-out arrangements cannot be reached, our banking subsidiaries may have to write-off the loan in whole or in part. In such situations, the banking subsidiaries may acquire real estate or other assets, if any, which secure the loan through foreclosure or other similar available remedies. In such cases, the amount owed under the defaulted loan often exceeds the value of the assets acquired. Our banking subsidiaries' management periodically makes a determination of an allowance for loan losses based on available information, including the quality of their loan portfolio, certain economic conditions, and the value of the underlying collateral and the level of its non-accruing and criticized loans. We rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our 16Table of Contents evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of provision required for the allowance for loan losses. Provisions to this allowance result in an expense for the period. If, as a result of general economic conditions, previously incorrect assumptions, or an increase in defaulted loans, management determines that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses are necessary, the banking subsidiaries will incur additional expenses. If it is determined that a banking subsidiary should sell certain loans or a portfolio of loans, we are required to classify those loans as “held for sale” which requires us to carry such loans at the lower of cost or market. If we decide to sell loans at a time when the fair value of those loans is less than their carrying value, the adjustment will result in a loss. We may from time to time decide to sell particular loans or groups of loans, and the required adjustment could negatively affect our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our banking subsidiaries' allowances for loan losses and the values they attribute to real estate acquired through foreclosure or other similar remedies. Such regulatory agencies may require th e banking subsidiaries to adjust their determination of the value for these items. These adjustments could negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition. Competition in the local banking industry may impair our ability to attract and retain banking customers at current levels. Competition in the local banking industry, coupled with our relatively small size, may limit the ability of our private banking affiliate partners to attract and retain banking customers. In particular, our banking subsidiaries' competitors includ e several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are able to serve the credit and investment needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits, and range and quality of services provided. Our banking subsidiaries also face competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries which have opened low-end production offices or which solicit deposits in their respective market areas. Because our banking subsidiaries maintain smaller staffs an d have fewer financial and other resources than larger institutions with which they compete, they may be limited in their ability to attract customers. In addition, some of our banking subsidiaries' current commercial banking customers may seek alternative banking sources as they develop needs for credit facilities larger than our banking subsidiaries can accommodate. If our banking subsidiaries are unable to attract and retain banking customers, they may be unable to continue their loan growth and their results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be negatively impacted. Fluctuations in interest rates may negatively impact our banking business. Fluctuations in interest rates may negatively impact the business of our banking subsidiaries. Our banking subsidiaries' main source of income from operations is net interest income, which represents the difference between the interest income earned on interest-bearing assets (usually loans and investment securities) and the interest expense incurred in connection with interest-bearing liabilities (usually deposits and borrowings). These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, both domestic and foreign, and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Our banking subsidiaries' net interest income can be affected significantly by changes in market interest rates. Changes in relative interest rates may reduce our banking subsidiaries' net interest income as the difference between interest income and interest expense decreases. As a result, our banking subsidiaries have adopted asset and liability management policies to minimize the potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on net interest income, primarily by altering the mix and maturity of loans, investments funding sources, and derivatives. However, even with these policies in place, a change in interest rates can impact our results of operations or financial condition. An increase in interest rates could also have a negative impact on our banking subsidiaries' results of operations by reducing the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations, which could not only result in increased loan defaults, foreclosures and write-offs, but also necessitate further increases to the banking subsidiaries' allowances for loan losses. Fluctuations in interest rates, in certain circumstances, may also lead to high levels of loan prepayments, which may also have an adverse impact on our net interest income. 17Table of Contents Our cost of funds for banking operations may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. Our banking subsidiaries have traditionally obtained funds principally through deposits and through borrowings. As a general matter, deposits are a cheaper source of funds than borrowings, because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for borrowings. Historically and in comparison to commercial banking averages, our banking subsidiaries have had a higher percentage of their time deposits in denominations of $100,000 or more. Within the banking industry, the amounts of such deposits are generally considered more likely to fluc tuate than deposits of smaller denominations. If, as a result of general economic conditions, market interest rates, competitive pressures or otherwise, the amount of deposits at our banking subsidiaries decreases relative to their overall banking operations, our banking subsidiaries may have to rely more heavily on borrowings as a source of funds in the future. Continued deterioration in local economies or real estate markets could negatively impact our banking business. Our banking subsidiaries primarily serve individuals and smaller businesses located in four geographic regions: New England, Northern California, Southern California, and the Pacific Northwest. The ability of our banking subsidi aries' customers to repay their loans is impacted by the economic conditions in these areas. Our banking subsidiaries' commercial loans are generally concentrated in the following customer groups: • real estate developers and investors; • financial service providers; • technology companies; • manufacturing and communications companies; • professional service providers; • general commercial and industrial companies; and • individuals.Our banking subsidiaries' commercial loans, with limited exceptions, are secured by real estate (usually income producing residential and commercial properties), marketable securities or corporate assets (usually accounts receivable, equipment or inventory). Substantially all of our banking subsidiaries' residential mortgage and home equity loans are secured by residential property. Consequently, our banking subsidiaries' abilities to continue to originate real estate loans may be impaired by adverse changes in local and regional economic conditions in the real estate markets, or by acts of nature, including earthquakes, hurricanes and flooding. Due to the concentration of real estate collateral in the geographic regions in which we operate, these events could have a material adverse impact on the ability of our banking subsidiaries' borrowers to repay their loans and affect the value of the collateral securing these loans. Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could result in losses. In the course of business, our banking subsidiaries may acquire, through foreclosure, properties securing loans they have originated or purchased which are in default. Particularly in commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on these properties. In this event, we, or our banking subsidiaries, might be required to remove these substances from the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of this removal could substantially exceed the value of affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties and could find it difficu lt or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Prepayments of loans may negatively impact our banking business. Generally, our banking subsidiaries' customers may prepay the principal amount of their outstanding loans at any time. The speed at which such prepayments occur, as well as the size of such prepayments, are within our customers' discretion. If customers prepay the principal amount of their loans, and we are unable to lend those funds to other borrowers or invest the funds at the same or higher interest rates, our interest income will be reduced. A significant reduction in interest income could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 18Table of Contents We may not be able to attract and retain investment management and wealth advisory clients at current levels due to competition. Due to intense competition, our investment management and wealth advisory subsidiaries may not be able to attract and retain clients at current levels. Competition is especially strong in our geographic market areas, because there are numerous well-established, well-resourced, well-capitalized and successful investment management and wealth advisory firms in these areas. Our ability to successfully attract and retain investment management and wealth advisory c lients is dependent upon our ability to compete with competitors' investment products, level of investment performance, client services and marketing and distribution capabilities. If we are not successful, our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted. For example, during both of the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, approximately 32% of our segment revenues were derived from investment management and trust fees and wealth advisory contracts. Investment management contracts are typically terminable upon less than 30 days' notice. Most of our investment management clients may withdraw funds from accounts under management generally in their sole discretion. Wealth a dvisory client contracts must typically be renewed on an annual basis and are terminable upon relatively short notice. The combined financial performance of our investment management and wealth advisory affiliate partners is a significant factor in our overall results of operations and financial condition. Our investment management business is highly dependent on people to produce investment returns and to solicit and retain clients. We rely on our investment managers to produce investment returns. We believe that investment performance is one of the most important factors for the growth of our assets under management. Poor investment performance could impair our revenues and growth because exist ing clients might withdraw funds in favor of better performing products, which would result in lower investment management fees or our ability to attract funds from existing and new clients might diminish. The market for investment managers is extremely competitive and is increasingly characterized by frequent movement of investment managers among different firms. In addition, our individual investment managers often have regular direct contact with particular clients, which can lead to a strong client relationship based on the client's trust in that individual manager. The loss of a key investment manager could jeopardize our relationships with our clients and lead to the loss of client accounts. Losses of such accounts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition to the risk of loss of key investment managers, our investment management business is dependent on the integrity of our asset managers and our employees. If an asset manager or employee were to misappropriate any client funds, the reputation of our asset management business could be negatively affected, which may result in the loss of accounts and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our investment management business may be negatively impacted by changes in economic and market conditions. Our investment management busines s may be negatively impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions because the performance of such business is directly affected by conditions in the financial and securities markets. The financial markets and businesses operating in the securities industry are highly volatile (meaning that performance results can vary greatly within short periods of time) and are directly affected by, among other factors, domestic and foreign economic conditions and general trends in business and finance, all of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that broad market performance will be favorable in the future. The world financial and securities markets will likely continue to experience significant volatility as a result of, among other things, world economic and political conditions. Declines in the financial markets or a lack of sustained growth may result in a corresponding decline in our performance and may adversely affect the assets that we manage. In addition, our management contracts generally provide for fees payable for investment management services based on the market value of assets under management, although there are a portion of our contracts that provide for the payment of fees based on investment performance in addition to a base fee. Because most contracts provide for a fee based on market values of securities, fluctuations in securities prices may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 19Table of Contents Our investment management and wealth advisory businesses are highly regulated, and the regulators have the ability to limit or restrict our activities and impose fines or suspensions on the conduct of our business. Our investment management and wealth advisory businesses are highly regulated, primarily at the federal level. The failure of any of our subsidiaries that provide investment management and wealth advisory services to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, suspensions of individual employees or other sanctions including revocation of such subsidiary's registration as an investment adviser. All of our investment managers and wealth advisory affiliate partners, except DTC, are registered investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act. The Investment Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisers, including fiduciary, record keeping, operational and disclosure obligations. These subsidiaries, as investment advisers, are also subject to regulation under the federal and state securities laws and the fiduciary laws of certain states. In addition, the affiliate partners acting as sub-advisers to mutual funds are subject to certain provisions and regulations of the Investment Company Act of 1940. We are also subject to the provisions and regulations of ERISA to the extent that we act as a “fiduciary” under ERISA with respect to certain of our clients. ERISA and the applicable provisions of the federal tax laws, impose a number of duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA and prohibit certain transactions involving the assets of each ERISA plan which is a client, as well as certain transactions by the fiduciaries (and certain other related parties) to such plans. In addition, applicabl e law provides that all investment contracts with mutual fund clients may be terminated by the clients, without penalty, upon no more than 60 days notice. Investment contracts with institutional and other clients are typically terminable by the client, also without penalty, upon 30 days notice. Changes in these laws or regulations could have a material adverse impact on our profitability and mode of operations. We may suffer losses as a result of operational risk or technical system failures. The potential for operational risk exposure exis ts throughout our organization. Integral to our performance is the continued effectiveness of our internal processes, systems, relationships with third parties and the associates and executives in our day-to-day and ongoing operations. Operational risk also encompasses the failure to implement strategic objectives in a successful, timely and cost-effective manner. Failure to properly manage operational risk subjects us to risks of loss that may vary in size, scale and scope, including loss of customers, operational or technical failures, unlawful tampering with our technical systems, ineffectiveness or exposure due to interruption in third party support, as well as the loss of key individuals or failure on the part of key individuals to perform properly. Although we seek to mitigate operational risk through a system of internal controls, losses from operational risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased operational costs, harm to our reputation or foregone opportunities.Our financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates, which, if wrong, could cause unexpected losses in the future.Pursuant to U.S. GAAP, we are required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including in determining credit loss reserves, reserves related to litigation and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses. For additional information, see Part II. Item 7. “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies.” Changes in accounting standards can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations.Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to anticipate and implement and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Goodwill and other intangible asset impairment would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. When the purchase price of an acquired business exceeds the fair value of its tangible assets, the excess is allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price which is allocated to goodwill is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired. At December 31, 2010, our goodwill 20Table of Contents and net intangible assets totaled $151.2 million. Under current accounting standards, if we determine goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, we will be required to write down the value of these assets. We conduct an annual review to determine whether goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets are impaired. Our goodwill and intangible assets are tested for impairment annually in the fourth quarter at the reporting unit level. In addition, an impairment test could be triggered between annual testing dates if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value below the carrying amount. Examples of those events or circumstances include the following: • &nbsp ; significant adverse change in business climate; • significant decrease in stock price and/or market capitalization; • significant unanticipated loss of clients/assets under management; • loss of key personnel; • sustained periods of poor investment performance; • significant loss of deposits or loans; • significant reductions in profitability; • significant changes in loan credit quality; td>• potential sale or disposal of an affiliate; and • adverse action or assessment by a regulator.We have taken impairment charges at various times in 2007, 2008 and 2009. We cannot assure you that we will not be required to take further impairment charges in the future. Any impairment charge would have a negative effect on our stockholders' equity and financial results. Our deferred tax assets may not ultimately be realized or our tax positions may be subject to challenge by the IRS. Our deferred tax assets may provide significant future tax savings to us. Our use of these deferred tax benefits may depend on a number of factors including the ability of us to generate significant future taxable income; the character of that income (ordinary versus capi tal); the absence of a future ownership change of us that could limit or eliminate the tax benefits; the acceptance by the taxing authorities of the positions taken on our tax returns as to the amount and timing of our income and expenses; and future changes in laws or regulations relating to tax deductions and net operating losses. We assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be realizable based primarily on future taxable income and tax planning strategies and, if necessary, establish a valuation allowance for those deferred tax assets determined to not likely be realizable. Management judgment is required in determining the appropriate recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities, including projections of future taxable income, as well as the character of that income. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, Management considers the following:• Cumulative income or loss over the current and previous two years.• Future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences.• The projection of future taxable income to be generated by operations during the available loss carryforward period.< /tr>• Tax planning strategies that are available and whether any are limited based upon the Company's market capitalization in excess of its book value.• Whether there has been any operating loss or tax credit carry-overs expiring unused. font>There can be no absolute assurance however, that the net deferred assets will ultimately be realized. 21Table of Contents We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our banking and nonbanking subsidiaries and depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our banking and nonbanking subsidiaries to fund dividend payments on our common and preferred stock and to fund all payments on our other obligations. Many of our subsidiaries are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the payment of cash dividends or other distributions from those subsidi aries to us. Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds we need to make payments on our obligations or dividend payments. Additionally, if our subsidiaries' earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common and preferred stockholders. Furthermore, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. Our stockholders may not receive dividends on our common stock. Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our board of directors. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our board of directors may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. Further, the Federal Reserve Board has issued guidelines for evaluating proposals by large bank holding companies to increase dividends or repurchase or redeem shares, which includes a requirement for such firms to develop a capital distribution plan. The Federal Reserve Board has indicated that it is considering expanding these requirements to cover all bank holding companies, which may in the future restrict our ability to pay dividends. A reduction or elimination of dividends could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Future capital offerings may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if our or our banking subsidiaries' capital ratios fall below the required minimums, we or our banking subsidiaries could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt, common, or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Although holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution, the terms of our Series B preferred stock do provide for certain anti-dilution adjustments. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. We cannot assure you that such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Our inability to raise sufficient additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could adversely affect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their s tock holdings in us. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders. Provisions of Massachusetts law and provisions of our articles of organization and by-laws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. We have a classified board of directors and as such it is subject to the provisions of Section 8.06(b) of the Massachusetts Business Corporation Act, which provides for certain anti-takeover provisions for public companies incorporated in Massachusetts. Additionally, our articles of organization authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock wit hout stockholder approval and such preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSThere are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 22Table of Contents 