ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Before deciding to invest in us or deciding to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below and in our other filings are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose your investment. Recent market volatility has impacted and may continue to impact our business and the value of our common stock. The performance of our business and the trading price of the shares of our common stock have been and may continue to be affected by many factors including the recent volatility in the credit, mortgage and housing markets, the markets for securities relating to mortgages or housing, and with respect to financial institutions generally. Government action, such as the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, and the American Recovery and Reinforcement Act of 2009, which is also referred to as the Economic Stimulus Bill, may also affect the Company and the value of our common stock. Given the unprecedented nature of this volatility, we cannot predict what impact, if any, this volatility will have on our business or share price and for these and other reasons our shares of common stock may trade at a price lower than that at which they were purchased. Market conditions and other factors have affected and may continue to affect the value of our common stock. The trading price of the shares of our common stock will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including: • conditions in the credit, mortgage and housing markets, the markets for securities relating to mortgages or housing, and developments with respect to financial institutions generally; • interest rates; • the market for similar securities; • government action or regulation; • general economic conditions or conditions in the financial markets; • our past and future dividend practices; and • our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects. Accordingly, the shares of common stock that an investor purchases may trade at a price lower than that at which they were purchased. If we are required to write down goodwill and other intangible assets our financial condition and results of operations would be negatively affected. When we acquire a business, a substantial portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price which is allocated to goodwill is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired. At December 31, 2008, our goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets were approximately $178.5 million. Under current accounting standards, if we determine goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, we will be required to write down the value of these assets. We conduct an annual review to determine whether goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets are impaired. Our goodwill and intangible assets are tested for impairment annually in the fourth quarter at the reporting unit level. An impairment test also could be triggered between annual testing dates if an event 18 Table of Contents occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value below the carrying amount. Examples of those events or circumstances would include the following: • significant adverse change in business climate; • significant decrease in stock price and/or market capitalization; • significant unanticipated loss of clients/assets under management; • loss of key personnel; • sustained periods of poor investment performance; • significant loss of deposits or loans; • significant reductions in profitability; • significant changes in loan credit quality; • potential sale or disposal of an affiliate; • adverse action or assessment by a regulator. We have taken impairment charges at various times in 2007 and 2008. We cannot assure you that we will not be required to take further impairment charges in the future. Any impairment charge would have a negative effect on our stockholders’ equity and financial results. Our business strategy contemplates significant growth and there are challenges and risks inherent in such a growth strategy. In recent years, we have experienced rapid growth, both due to the expansion of our existing businesses as well as acquisitions. Among the challenges we face is the ongoing need to continue to maintain and develop an infrastructure appropriate to support such growth, including in the areas of management personnel, systems, compliance, and risk management, while taking steps to ensure that the related expense incurred is commensurate with the growth in revenues. Accordingly, there is risk inherent in our pursuit of a growth strategy that revenue will not be sufficient to support such expense and generate profitability at the levels we historically have achieved. A significant decrease in revenues or increases in costs may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In connection with our acquisitions and to the extent that we acquire other companies in the future, our business may be negatively impacted by certain risks inherent in such acquisitions. At this time, we do not intend to make acquisitions of other private banking, investment management, and wealth advisory companies in the foreseeable future. With respect to our past acquisitions, our business may be negatively impacted by certain risks inherent in such acquisitions. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: • the risk that we may lose key clients or employees of the acquired business as a result of the change of ownership to us; • the risk that the acquired business will not perform in accordance with our expectations; • the risk that difficulties will arise in connection with the integration of the operations of the acquired business with the operations of our private banking, investment management, or wealth advisory businesses, particularly to the extent we are entering new geographic markets; • the risk that we will need to make significant investments in infrastructure, controls, staff, emergency backup facilities or other critical business functions that become strained by our growth; • the risk that management will divert its attention from other aspects of our business; 19 Table of Contents • the risk associated with entering into geographic and product markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience; • the risk that we may assume potential liabilities of the acquired company as a result of the acquisition; and • the risk that an acquisition will dilute our earnings per share, in both the short and long term, or that it will reduce our tangible capital ratios. We utilize a decentralized management structure, which affects our ability to manage and control our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries have localized management teams. This decentralized structure gives the subsidiaries control over the day-to-day management of their business, including credit decisions, the selection of personnel, the pricing of loans and deposits, marketing decisions and the strategy in handling problem loans. This structure may affect our ability to manage and control our subsidiaries and implement corporate or enterprise-wide strategy and procedures at the subsidiary level. We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense and we may not be able to hire or retain the key personnel that we depend upon for success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of the markets in which we operate, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Competition in the local banking industry may impair our ability to attract and retain banking customers at current levels. Competition in the local banking industry coupled with our relatively small size may limit the ability of our private banking affiliate partners to attract and retain banking customers. In particular, the Banks’ competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are able to serve the credit and investment needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits, and range and quality of services provided. Our Banks also face competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries which have opened low-end production offices or which solicit deposits in their respective market areas. Because our Banks maintain smaller staffs and have fewer financial and other resources than larger institutions with which they compete, they may be limited in their ability to attract customers. In addition, some of the Banks’ current commercial banking customers may seek alternative banking sources as they develop needs for credit facilities larger than our Banks can accommodate. If our Banks are unable to attract and retain banking customers, they may be unable to continue their loan growth and their results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be negatively impacted. Fluctuations in interest rates may negatively impact our banking business. Fluctuations in interest rates may negatively impact the business of our Banks. Our Banks’ main source of income from operations is net interest income, which is equal to the difference between the interest income received on interest-bearing assets (usually loans and investment securities) and the interest expense incurred in connection with interest-bearing liabilities (usually deposits and borrowings). These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, both domestic 20 Table of Contents and foreign, and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Our Banks’ net interest income can be affected significantly by changes in market interest rates. Changes in relative interest rates may reduce our Banks’ net interest income as the difference between interest income and interest expense decreases. As a result, our Banks have adopted asset and liability management policies to minimize the potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on net interest income, primarily by altering the mix and maturity of loans, investments and funding sources. However, even with these policies in place, a change in interest rates can impact our results of operations or financial condition. An increase in interest rates could also have a negative impact on our Banks’ results of operations by reducing the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations, which could not only result in increased loan defaults, foreclosures and write-offs, but also necessitate further increases to the Banks’ allowances for loan losses. Fluctuations in interest rates, in certain circumstances, may also lead to high levels of loan prepayments, which may also have an adverse impact on our net interest income. Our cost of funds for banking operations may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. Our Banks have traditionally obtained funds principally through deposits and through borrowings. As a general matter, deposits are a cheaper source of funds than borrowings, because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for borrowings. Historically and in comparison to commercial banking averages, our Banks have had a higher percentage of their time deposits in denominations of $100,000 or more. Within the banking industry, the amounts of such deposits are generally considered more likely to fluctuate than deposits of smaller denominations. If, as a result of general economic conditions, market interest rates, competitive pressures or otherwise, the value of deposits at our Banks decreases relative to their overall banking operations, our Banks may have to rely more heavily on borrowings as a source of funds in the future. Defaults in the repayment of loans may negatively impact our business. A borrower’s default on its obligations under one or more of the Banks’ loans may result in lost principal and interest income and increased operating expenses as a result of the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work-out of the loan. In certain situations, where collection efforts are unsuccessful or acceptable work-out arrangements cannot be reached, our Banks may have to write-off the loan in whole or in part. In such situations, the Banks may acquire real estate or other assets, if any, which secure the loan through foreclosure or other similar available remedies. In such cases, the amount owed under the defaulted loan often exceeds the value of the assets acquired. Our Banks’ management periodically makes a determination of an allowance for loan losses based on available information, including the quality of their loan portfolio, certain economic conditions, and the value of the underlying collateral and the level of its non-accruing and criticized loans. Provisions to this allowance result in an expense for the period. If, as a result of general economic conditions or an increase in defaulted loans, management determines that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses are necessary, the Banks will incur additional expenses. For example, FPB’s construction and land loan portfolio, primarily in the Inland Empire region of Southern California, was severely affected by the rapid downturn in the real estate market. In the first six months of 2008, the Company recognized impairment losses of $38.0 million at FPB. FPB experienced a large increase in non-accrual and classified loans which necessitated a corresponding increase in their provision for loan losses. Also, the increase in non-accrual loans reduced interest income and caused FPB to incur additional expenses related to obtaining updated loan appraisals and loan workouts. In the third quarter of 2008, the Company recorded loan loss provisions of $132.6 million and charge-offs of $160.6 million related to the 72 loans at FPB transferred to the held for sale category. In September 2008, the Company announced its intention to sell substantially all of the land and construction loans at FPB. As of December 31, 2008, the Company still held 18 loans, associated with that portfolio, with a carrying value of 21 Table of Contents $27.2 million and two OREO properties with a carrying value of $7.1 million. Although the Company continues to seek to complete the sale of these remaining loans and OREO, there is no guarantee that such a sale will be completed in the near future. While these FPB loans and OREO remain on our balance sheet, the market for such loans and OREO may continue to deteriorate and we cannot be certain that FPB will not have to take an additional charge as a result of a further reduction in the estimated fair market value of these loans and OREO. If we decide to sell additional loans or another portfolio of loans, we are required to classify those loans as held for sale which requires us to carry such loans at the lower of cost or market. If we decide to sell loans at a time when the fair value of those loans is less than their carrying value, the adjustment will result in a loss. We may from time to time decide to sell particular loans or groups of loans as we did with the FPB loans, and the required adjustment could negatively affect our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our Banks’ allowances for loan losses and the values they attribute to real estate acquired through foreclosure or other similar remedies. Such regulatory agencies may require the Banks to adjust their determination of the value for these items. These adjustments could negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition. A downturn in local economies or real estate markets could negatively impact our banking business. A downturn in the local economies or real estate markets could negatively impact our banking business. Primarily, our Banks serve individuals and smaller businesses located in six geographic regions: Eastern Massachusetts, New York City, Northern California, Southern California, South Florida, and the Pacific Northwest. The ability of the Banks’ customers to repay their loans is impacted by the economic conditions in these areas. The Banks’ commercial loans are generally concentrated in the following customer groups: • real estate developers and investors; • financial service providers; • technology companies; • manufacturing and communications companies; • professional service providers; • general commercial and industrial companies; and • individuals. Our Banks’ commercial loans, with limited exceptions, are secured by real estate (usually income producing residential and commercial properties), marketable securities or corporate assets (usually accounts receivable, equipment or inventory). Substantially all of our Banks’ residential mortgage and home equity loans are secured by residential property. Consequently, our Banks’ abilities to continue to originate real estate loans may be impaired by adverse changes in local and regional economic conditions in the real estate markets, or by acts of nature, including earthquakes, hurricanes and flooding. Due to the concentration of real estate collateral in the geographic regions in which we operate, these events could have a material adverse impact on the ability of our Banks’ borrowers to repay their loans and affect the value of the collateral securing these loans. As discussed above, FPB’s construction and land loan portfolio, primarily in the Inland Empire region of Southern California, was severely affected by the rapid downturn in the real estate market. 22 Table of Contents Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could result in losses. In the course of business, our Banks may acquire, through foreclosure, properties securing loans they have originated or purchased which are in default. Particularly in commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on these properties. In this event, we, or our Banks, might be required to remove these substances from the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of this removal could substantially exceed the value of affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Prepayments of loans may negatively impact our business. Generally, our Banks’ customers may prepay the principal amount of their outstanding loans at any time. The speed at which such prepayments occur, as well as the size of such prepayments, are within our customers’ discretion. If customers prepay the principal amount of their loans, and we are unable to lend those funds to other borrowers or invest the funds at the same or higher interest rates, our interest income will be reduced. A significant reduction in interest income could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our banking business is highly regulated, which could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. Bank holding companies and banks operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and examination by federal and state regulatory agencies. We are subject to the Bank Holding Company Act and to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. Our Banks are subject to regulation and supervision by their respective federal and state regulatory agencies, which currently include the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the California Department of Financial Institutions, the Washington State Department of Financial Institutions, the FDIC, and the OTS. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters including changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies, maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution, permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments, permissible nonbanking activities, the level of reserves against deposits and restrictions on dividend payments. The FDIC, the OTS, the California Department of Financial Institutions, the Washington State Department of Financial Institutions, and the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks possess cease and desist powers to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulation, and the Federal Reserve Board possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. These and other restrictions limit the manner in which our Banks and we may conduct business and obtain financing. On May 27, 2008, in connection with its most recent examination by the FDIC, the members of the board of directors of FPB entered into an informal supervisory agreement (a memorandum of understanding) with the FDIC and the California Commissioner of Financial Institutions to address certain matters raised in the examination. We are participating in the Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program, which was developed as part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program. On November 21, 2008, we issued and sold shares of our Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C (the “Series C Preferred Stock”), together with a warrant to purchase additional shares of our common stock, to the Treasury. As a result, our ability to declare or pay dividends or distributions on, or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for consideration, shares of our common and preferred stock will be subject to restrictions until the earlier of (a) the third anniversary of the date of issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock and (b) the date on which the Series C Preferred Stock has been redeemed in whole or Treasury has transferred all of the Series C Preferred Stock to third parties. Furthermore, our banking business is affected by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary or legislative policies may affect the interest rates our Banks must offer to attract deposits and the interest rates they must charge on their loans, as well as the manner in which they offer 23 Table of Contents deposits and make loans. These monetary policies have had, and are expected to continue to have, significant effects on the operating results of depository institutions generally, including our Banks. The recent increase in FDIC deposit insurance premiums will increase our non-interest expense. On December 16, 2008, the FDIC adopted a final rule, which took effect on January 1, 2009, increasing the deposit insurance assessment rate by seven cents per $100 of deposits. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC adopted another final rule, to take effect on April 1, 2009, that, among other things, changes the way that the FDIC’s assessment system differentiates for risk and makes corresponding changes to assessment rates beginning with the second quarter of 2009. As a result, our base assessment rate will increase again on April 1, 2009. In addition, the FDIC expects to impose a one-time special assessment on June 30, 2009, which is currently anticipated to be 10 cents per $100 of deposits. The increase in our deposit insurance premiums will result in an increase in our non-interest expense. The value of our investment in FHLB stock may be reduced. The Company’s affiliate Banks are members of FHLBs in the Atlanta, Boston, San Francisco, and Seattle districts. The FHLBs have advised their members that they are focusing on preserving capital in response to ongoing market volatility and, accordingly, there will be little or no dividend payout in near term quarterly periods. Further, moratoriums have been placed on excess stock repurchases at some of the FHLBs. The FHLBs have announced other-than-temporary impairment charges due to decreases in the estimated fair values of private-label mortgage-backed securities they held during the third and fourth quarters of 2008. If these losses continue, they could exceed the FHLBs’ current level of retained earnings and possibly put into question whether the FHLB stock owned by the Company was impaired. The FHLBs have stated that they expect and intend to hold their private-label mortgage-backed securities to maturity. The Company will continue to monitor its investment in FHLB stock. We may not be able to attract and retain investment management and wealth advisory clients at current levels. Due to intense competition, our investment management and wealth advisory subsidiaries may not be able to attract and retain clients at current levels. Competition is especially strong in our geographic market areas, because there are numerous well-established and successful investment management and wealth advisory firms in these areas. Many of our competitors have greater resources than we have. Our ability to successfully attract and retain investment management and wealth advisory clients is dependent upon our ability to compete with competitors’ investment products, level of investment performance, client services and marketing and distribution capabilities. If we are not successful, our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted. For example, during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, approximately 40% and 42%, respectively, of our segment revenues were derived from investment management and trust fees and wealth advisory contracts. Investment management contracts are typically terminable upon less than 30 days’ notice. Most of our investment management clients may withdraw funds from accounts under management generally in their sole discretion. Wealth advisory client contracts must typically be renewed on an annual basis and are terminable upon relatively short notice. The combined financial performance of our investment management and wealth advisory affiliate partners is a significant factor in our overall results of operations and financial condition. Our investment management business is highly dependent on people to produce investment returns and to solicit and retain clients. We rely on our investment managers to produce investment returns. We believe that investment performance is one of the most important factors for the growth of our assets under management. Poor investment performance could impair our revenues and growth because existing clients might withdraw funds in favor of better performing products, which would result in lower investment management fees or our ability to attract funds from existing and new clients might diminish. 24 Table of Contents The market for investment managers is extremely competitive and is increasingly characterized by frequent movement of investment managers among different firms. In addition, our individual investment managers often have regular direct contact with particular clients, which can lead to a strong client relationship based on the client’s trust in that individual manager. The loss of a key investment manager could jeopardize our relationships with our clients and lead to the loss of client accounts. Losses of such accounts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition to the loss of key investment managers, our investment management business is dependent on the integrity of our asset managers and our employees. If an asset manager or employee were to misappropriate any client funds, the reputation of our asset management business could be negatively affected, which may result in the loss of accounts and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our investment management business may be negatively impacted by changes in economic and market conditions. Our investment management business may be negatively impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions because the performance of such business is directly affected by conditions in the financial and securities markets. The financial markets and businesses operating in the securities industry are highly volatile (meaning that performance results can vary greatly within short periods of time) and are directly affected by, among other factors, domestic and foreign economic conditions and general trends in business and finance, all of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that broad market performance will be favorable in the future. The world financial and securities markets will likely continue to experience significant volatility as a result of, among other things, world economic and political conditions. Decline in the financial markets or a lack of sustained growth may result in a corresponding decline in our performance and may adversely affect the assets that we manage. In addition, our management contracts generally provide for fees payable for investment management services based on the market value of assets under management, although there are a portion of our contracts that provide for the payment of fees based on investment performance in addition to a base fee. Because most contracts provide for a fee based on market values of securities, fluctuations in securities prices may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our investment management and wealth advisory businesses are highly regulated, and the regulators have the ability to limit or restrict our activities and impose fines or suspensions on the conduct of our business. Our investment management and wealth advisory businesses are highly regulated, primarily at the federal level. The failure of any of our subsidiaries that provide investment management and wealth advisory services to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, suspensions of individual employees or other sanctions including revocation of such subsidiary’s registration as an investment adviser. All of our investment managers and wealth advisory affiliate partners, except DTC, are registered investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act. The Investment Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisers, including fiduciary, record keeping, operational and disclosure obligations. These subsidiaries, as investment advisers, are also subject to regulation under the federal and state securities laws and the fiduciary laws of certain states. In addition, the affiliate partners acting as sub-advisers to mutual funds are subject to certain provisions and regulations of the Investment Company Act of 1940. We are also subject to the provisions and regulations of ERISA to the extent that we act as a “fiduciary” under ERISA with respect to certain of our clients. ERISA and the applicable provisions of the federal tax laws, impose a number of duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA and prohibit certain transactions involving the assets of each ERISA plan which is a client, as well as certain transactions by the fiduciaries (and certain other related parties) to such plans. 25 Table of Contents In addition, applicable law provides that all investment contracts with mutual fund clients may be terminated by the clients, without penalty, upon no more than 60 days notice. Investment contracts with institutional and other clients are typically terminable by the client, also without penalty, upon 30 days notice. Also, Coldstream Securities, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Coldstream Holdings, Inc., as a registered broker-dealer, is subject to extensive regulation under federal and state laws, as well as the rules promulgated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Changes in these laws or regulations could have a material adverse impact on our profitability and mode of operations. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our banking and non-banking subsidiaries and depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our banking and non-banking subsidiaries to fund dividend payments on our common stock and to fund all payments on our other obligations. Many of our subsidiaries are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to us. Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds we need to make payments on our obligations or dividend payments. Additionally, if our subsidiaries’ earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common and preferred shareholders. Furthermore, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. A significant decrease in the market price of our common stock could be considered a triggering event for goodwill impairment testing under FASB Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: • quarterly variations in our operating results or the quality of our assets; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • announcements of innovations, new products, strategic developments, significant contracts, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; • the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us; • future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; and • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity or real estate valuations or volatility. Our stockholders may not receive dividends on the common stock. Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our board of directors. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our board of directors may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the 26 Table of Contents future. For example, in July 2008 we announced that we would reduce our dividend to $0.04 per share on an annualized basis as part of our capital plan. Such a reduction or elimination of dividends could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, as noted above, our ability to declare or pay dividends on shares of our common stock is subject to restrictions as a result of our participation in the U.S. Treasury’s TARP Capital Purchase Program. Future offerings of debt, which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation, and/or preferred equity securities which may be senior to our common stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if our or our banking subsidiaries’ capital ratios fall below the required minimums, we or our banking subsidiaries could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their stock holdings in us. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders. Provisions of Massachusetts law and provisions of our articles of organization and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. We have a classified board of directors and as such it is subject to the provisions of Massachusetts Business Corporations Act Section 8.06(b), which provides for certain anti-takeover provisions for public companies incorporated in Massachusetts. Additionally, our articles of organization authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and such preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no material unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 