Item 1A. Risk Factors PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 SAFE HARBOR CAUTIONARY STATEMENT This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including exhibits, contains statements that are not based on historical fact and represent forward-looking statements, as this term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, that address activities, events or developments that U.S. Cellular intends, expects, projects, believes, estimates, plans or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. The words “believes,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “expects,” “plans,” “intends,” “projects” and similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying them. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, events or developments to be significantly different from any future results, events or developments expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include those set forth below under “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K. However, such factors are not necessarily all of the important factors that could cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements contained in this document. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have material adverse effects on future results, performance or achievements. U.S. Cellular undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this Form 10-K to understand the material risks relating to U.S. Cellular’s business. RISK FACTORS Intense competition in the markets in which U.S. Cellular operates could adversely affect U.S. Cellular’s revenues or increase its costs to compete. Competition in the telecommunications industry is intense. U.S. Cellular’s ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on its ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the telecommunications industry. U.S. Cellular anticipates that competition may cause the prices for products and services to continue to decline, and the costs to compete to increase, in the future. Most of U.S. Cellular’s competitors are national or global telecommunications companies that are larger than U.S. Cellular, possess greater resources, possess more extensive coverage areas and more spectrum within their coverage areas, and market other services with their communications services that U.S. Cellular does not offer. In addition, U.S. Cellular may face competition from technologies that may be introduced in the future or from new entrants into the industry. There can be no assurance that U.S. Cellular will be able to compete successfully in this environment. New technologies, services and products that are more commercially effective than the technologies, services and products offered by U.S. Cellular may be developed. Sources of competition to U.S. Cellular’s business typically include three to five competing wireless telecommunications service providers in each market, wireline telecommunications service providers, resellers (including mobile virtual network operators), and providers of other alternate telecommunications services. Many of U.S. Cellular’s wireless competitors and other competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, sales, purchasing and distribution resources than U.S. Cellular. These factors are not in U.S. Cellular’s control. Changes in such competitive factors could result in product, service, pricing or cost disadvantages and could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s business, financial condition or results of operations. 22 A failure by U.S. Cellular’s service offerings to meet customer expectations could limit U.S. Cellular’s ability to attract and retain customers and could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s operations. Customer acceptance of the services that U.S. Cellular offers is and will continue to be affected by technology and range of service-based differences from competition and by the operational performance, quality, reliability, and coverage of U.S. Cellular’s networks. U.S. Cellular may have difficulty attracting and retaining customers if it is unable to meet customer expectations for a range of services, or if it is otherwise unable to resolve quality issues relating to its networks, billing systems or customer care, or if any of those issues limit U.S. Cellular’s ability to expand its network capacity or subscriber base or otherwise place U.S. Cellular at a competitive disadvantage to other service providers in its markets. The level of customer demand for any U.S. Cellular next-generation services and products is uncertain. Customer demand could be impacted by differences in the types of services offered, service content, technology, footprint and service areas, network quality, customer perceptions, customer care levels and rate plans. U.S. Cellular’s system infrastructure may not be capable of supporting changes in technologies and services expected by customers, which could result in lost customers and revenues. The wireless telecommunications industry is experiencing significant changes in technologies and services expected by customers. Future technological changes or advancements may enable other wireless technologies to equal or exceed our current levels of service and render our system infrastructure obsolete. New technologies or services often render existing technology products, services or infrastructure obsolete, too costly or otherwise unmarketable. U.S. Cellular’s system infrastructure may not be capable of supporting changes in technologies and services expected by customers. If U.S. Cellular is unable to meet future advances in or changes in competing technologies on a timely basis, or at an acceptable cost, it may not be able to compete effectively with other carriers, which could result in lost customers and revenues. This could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s business, financial condition or results of operations. An inability to obtain or maintain roaming arrangements with other carriers on terms that are acceptable to U.S. Cellular could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s business, financial condition or results of operations. U.S. Cellular’s customers can access another carrier’s digital system automatically only if the other carrier allows U.S. Cellular’s customers to roam on its network. U.S. Cellular relies on roaming agreements with other carriers to provide roaming capability to its customers in areas of the U.S. outside its service areas and to improve coverage within selected areas of U.S. Cellular’s network footprint. Such agreements cover traditional voice services as well as data services, which are an area of strong growth for U.S. Cellular and other carriers. Although U.S. Cellular currently has long-term roaming agreements with certain other carriers, these agreements generally are subject to renewal and termination if certain events occur, including, without limitation, if network standards are not maintained. Some competitors may be able to obtain lower roaming rates than U.S. Cellular because they have larger call volumes or because of their affiliations with, or ownership of, wireless carriers, or may be able to reduce roaming charges by providing service principally over their own network. In addition, the quality of service that a wireless carrier delivers during a roaming call may be inferior to the quality of service U.S. Cellular provides, the price of a roaming call may not be competitive with prices of other wireless carriers for such call, and U.S. Cellular’s customers may not be able to use some of the advanced features, such as voicemail notification, or data applications that the customers enjoy when making calls within U.S. Cellular’s network. U.S. Cellular’s rate of adoption of new technologies, such as those enabling high-speed data services, could affect its ability to enter into or maintain roaming agreements with other carriers. In addition, U.S. Cellular’s wireless “CDMA” and “CDMA 1XRTT” technology is not compatible with certain other technologies used by certain other carriers, such as GSM-based technologies, limiting the ability of U.S. Cellular to enter into roaming agreements with such other carriers. U.S. Cellular’s roaming partners could switch their business to new operators or, over time, to their own networks. Changes in roaming usage patterns, rates per roaming minute of use or relationships with carriers whose customers generate roaming minutes of use on U.S. Cellular’s network could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s revenues and revenue growth. If U.S. Cellular is unable to obtain or maintain roaming agreements with other wireless carriers that contain pricing and other terms that are competitive and acceptable to U.S. Cellular, and that satisfy U.S. Cellular’s quality and interoperability requirements, its business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. 23 Changes in access to content for data or video services or access to new handsets being developed by vendors, or an inability to manage its supply chain or inventory successfully, could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s business, financial condition or results of operations. U.S. Cellular’s business increasingly depends on its access to content for data, music or video services and its access to new handsets being developed by vendors. U.S. Cellular’s ability to obtain such access depends in part on other parties. If U.S. Cellular is unable to obtain access to content for data, music or video services or access to new handsets being developed by vendors on a timely basis, its business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Operation of U.S. Cellular’s supply chain and management of its inventory balances requires accurate forecasting of customer growth and demand, which has become increasingly challenging. If overall demand for handsets or the mix of demand for handsets is significantly different than U.S. Cellular’s expectations, U.S. Cellular could face inadequate or excess supplies of particular models of handsets. This could result in lost sales opportunities or a buildup of inventory that could not be sold easily. Either of these situations could adversely affect U.S. Cellular’s revenues, costs of doing business, results of operations or financial condition. A failure by U.S. Cellular’s business to acquire adequate radio spectrum could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s business and operations. U.S. Cellular’s business depends on the ability to use portions of the radio spectrum licensed by the FCC. U.S. Cellular could fail to obtain sufficient spectrum capacity in new and existing markets, whether through FCC auctions or other transactions, in order to meet the potential expanded demands for existing services in critical markets, and to enable deployment of next-generation services. Such a failure could have a material adverse impact on the quality of U.S. Cellular’s services or U.S. Cellular’s ability to roll out such future services in some markets, or could require that U.S. Cellular curtail existing services in order to make spectrum available for next-generation services. U.S. Cellular may acquire more spectrum through a combination of alternatives, including participation in spectrum auctions. As required by law, the FCC has conducted auctions for licenses to use some parts of the radio spectrum. The decision to conduct auctions, and the determination of what spectrum frequencies will be made available for auction, are provided for by laws administered by the FCC. The FCC may not allocate spectrum sufficient to meet the demands of all those wishing to obtain licenses. U.S. Cellular may not be successful in FCC auctions in obtaining the spectrum that U.S. Cellular believes is necessary to implement its business and technology strategies. In addition, newly auctioned spectrum may not be compatible with existing spectrum, and vendors may not create suitable products to use such spectrum. U.S. Cellular also may seek to acquire radio spectrum through purchases and exchanges with other spectrum licensees or otherwise, including by purchases of other licensees outright. However, U.S. Cellular may not be able to acquire sufficient spectrum through these types of transactions, and U.S. Cellular may not be able to complete any of these transactions on favorable terms. U.S. Cellular is currently participating and, to the extent conducted by the FCC, likely to participate in FCC auctions of additional spectrum in the future and, during certain periods, will be subject to the FCC’s anti-collusion rules, which could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular. From time to time, the FCC conducts auctions through which additional spectrum is made available for the provision of wireless services. U.S. Cellular has participated in such auctions in the past, is currently participating in an auction and is likely to participate in any other auctions conducted by the FCC in the future. FCC anti-collusion rules place certain restrictions on business communications and disclosures by participants in an FCC auction. The FCC auction of spectrum in the 700 megahertz band, referred to as Auction 73, began on January 24, 2008. If certain reserve prices are not met, the FCC will follow Auction 73 with a contingent auction, referred to as Auction 76. For purposes of applying its anti-collusion rules the FCC has determined that both auctions will be treated as a single auction, which means that, in the event that the contingent auction is needed, the anti-collusion rules would last from the application deadline for Auction 73, which was December 3, 2007, until the down payment deadline for Auction 76. Applicable FCC rules place certain restrictions on business communications with other companies and on public disclosures relating to U.S. Cellular’s participation in the auction. These anti-collusion rules may restrict the normal conduct of U.S. Cellular’s business and/or disclosures by U.S. Cellular relating to the auctions, which could last three to six months or more. The restrictions could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s business, financial condition or results of operations. 24 An inability to attract and/or retain management, technical, sales and other personnel could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Due to competition for qualified management, technical, sales and other personnel, there can be no assurance that U.S. Cellular will be able to continue to attract and/or retain qualified personnel necessary for the development of its business. The loss of the services of existing personnel as well as the failure to recruit additional qualified personnel in a timely manner would be detrimental to U.S. Cellular’s growth and activities requiring expertise. The failure to attract and/or retain such personnel could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s business, financial condition or results of operations. U.S. Cellular’s assets are concentrated in the U.S. wireless telecommunications industry. As a result, its results of operations may fluctuate based on factors related entirely to conditions in this industry. U.S. Cellular’s assets are concentrated in the U.S. wireless telecommunications industry and, in particular, in the Midwestern portion of the United States. U.S. Cellular’s focus on the U.S. wireless telecommunications industry, with concentrations of assets and operations in the Midwest, together with its positioning relative to larger competitors with greater resources within the industry, may represent increased risk for investors due to the lack of diversification. Consolidation in the telecommunications industry could adversely affect U.S. Cellular’s revenues and increase its costs of doing business. There has been a recent trend in the telecommunications and related industries towards consolidation of service providers through joint ventures, reorganizations and acquisitions. U.S. Cellular expects this trend towards consolidation to continue, leading to larger competitors over time. U.S. Cellular may be unable to compete successfully with larger companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, sales, purchasing and distribution resources or that offer more services than U.S. Cellular, which could adversely affect U.S. Cellular’s revenues and costs of doing business. Changes in general economic and business conditions, both nationally and in the markets in which U.S. Cellular operates, could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s business, financial condition or results of operations. U.S. Cellular’s operating results may be subject to factors which are outside of U.S. Cellular’s control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, both nationally and in the markets in which U.S. Cellular operates. Such factors could have a material adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in various business factors could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in any of several factors could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s business, financial condition or results of operations. These factors include, but are not limited to: · demand for or usage of services, · the pricing of services, · the overall size and growth rate of U.S. Cellular’s customer base, · average revenue per unit, · penetration rates, · churn rates, · selling expenses, · net customer acquisition and retention costs, · roaming rates, · minutes of use, · the mix of products and services offered by U.S. Cellular and purchased by customers, and · the costs of providing products and services. 25 Advances or changes in telecommunications technology, such as Voice over Internet Protocol, WiMAX, or Long-Term Evolution (LTE) could render certain technologies used by U.S. Cellular obsolete, could reduce U.S. Cellular’s revenues or could increase its costs of doing business. The telecommunications industry is experiencing significant technological change, as evidenced by evolving industry standards, ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology, shorter development cycles for new products and enhancements and changes in end-user requirements and preferences. Technological advances and industry changes, such as the implementation by other carriers of third generation (“3G”) technology, wideband technologies such as “Wi-Fi” and “WiMAX” which do not necessarily rely on FCC-licensed spectrum or the development of fourth generation technology (“4G”) such as LTE, could cause the technology used on U.S. Cellular’s wireless networks to become less competitive or obsolete. In addition, Voice over Internet Protocol, also known as VoIP, is an emerging technological trend that could cause a decrease in demand for U.S. Cellular’s telephone services. U.S. Cellular may not be able to respond to such changes and implement new technology on a timely or cost-effective basis, which could reduce its revenues or increase its costs of doing business. If U.S. Cellular cannot keep pace with these technological changes or other changes in the telecommunications industry over time, its financial condition, results of operations or ability to do business could be adversely affected. Changes in U.S. Cellular’s enterprise value, changes in the supply or demand of the market for wireless licenses, adverse developments in the business or the industry in which U.S. Cellular is involved and/or other factors could require U.S. Cellular to recognize impairments in the carrying value of U.S. Cellular’s license costs, goodwill, customer lists and/or physical assets. A large portion of U.S. Cellular’s assets consists of intangible assets in the form of licenses and goodwill. U.S. Cellular also has substantial investments in long-lived assets such as property, plant and equipment. Licenses, goodwill and other long-lived assets must be reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. U.S. Cellular reviews its licenses, goodwill and other long-lived assets for impairment annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable. An impairment loss may need to be recognized to the extent the carrying value of the assets exceeds the fair value of such assets. The amount of any such impairment charges could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. The estimation of fair values requires assumptions by management about factors that are highly uncertain including future cash flows, the appropriate discount rate, and other factors. Different assumptions for these factors or valuation methodologies could create materially different results. Costs, integration problems or other factors associated with acquisitions/divestitures of properties or licenses and/or expansion of U.S. Cellular’s business could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s business, financial condition or results of operations. As part of U.S. Cellular’s operating strategy, U.S. Cellular may expand the markets in which it operates through the acquisition of other telecommunications service providers, the acquisition of selected licenses or operating markets from such providers or through direct investment. The acquisition of additional businesses will depend on U.S. Cellular’s ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, to negotiate acceptable terms for their acquisition and to finance any such acquisitions. U.S. Cellular also will be subject to competition for suitable acquisition candidates. Any acquisitions, if made, could divert the resources and management time of U.S. Cellular and would require integration with U.S. Cellular’s existing business operations and services. As a result, there can be no assurance that any such acquisitions will occur or that any such acquisitions, if made, would be made in a timely manner or on terms favorable to U.S. Cellular or would be successfully integrated into U.S. Cellular’s operations. These transactions commonly involve a number of risks, including: · entering markets in which U.S. Cellular has limited or no direct prior experience and competitors have stronger positions; · uncertain revenues and expenses, with the result that U.S. Cellular may not realize the growth in revenues, anticipated cost structure, profitability, or return on investment that it expects; · difficulty of integrating the technologies, services, products, operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; · diversion of management’s attention; · disruption of ongoing business; 26 · impact on U.S. Cellular’s cash and available credit lines for use in financing future growth and working capital needs; · inability to retain key personnel; · inability to successfully incorporate acquired assets and rights into U.S. Cellular’s service offerings; · inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and · impairment of relationships with employees, customers or vendors. Failure to overcome these risks or any other problems encountered in these transactions could have a material adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Also, the FCC’s recent conditioning of its approvals for certain acquisitions proposed by other carriers on such carriers’ acceptance of a voluntary cap on USF funding could provide a risk or impediment to expansion by U.S. Cellular. If U.S. Cellular expands into new telecommunications businesses or markets, it may incur significant expenditures, a substantial portion of which must be made before any revenues will be realized. Such expenditures may increase as a result of the accelerated pace of regulatory and technological changes. Such expenditures, together with the associated high initial costs of providing service in new markets, may result in reduced cash flow until an adequate revenue base is established. There can be no assurance that an adequate revenue base will be established in any new technology or market which U.S. Cellular pursues. If U.S. Cellular expands into new telecommunications businesses or markets, it will incur certain additional risks in connection with such expansion, including increased legal and regulatory risks and possible adverse reaction by some of its current customers. Such telecommunications businesses and markets are highly competitive and, as a new entrant, U.S. Cellular may be disadvantaged. The success of U.S. Cellular’s entry into new telecommunications businesses or markets will be dependent upon, among other things, U.S. Cellular’s ability to select new equipment and software and to integrate the new equipment and software into its operations, to hire and train qualified personnel and to enhance existing administrative, financial and information systems to accommodate the new businesses or markets. No assurance can be given that U.S. Cellular will be successful with respect to these efforts. If U.S. Cellular is not successful with respect to its expansion initiatives, its business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. A significant portion of U.S. Cellular’s revenues is derived from customers who buy services through independent agents and dealers who market U.S. Cellular’s services on a commission basis. If U.S. Cellular’s relationships with these agents and dealers are seriously harmed, its revenues could be adversely affected. U.S. Cellular has relationships with agents, dealers and other third-party retailers to obtain customers. Agents and dealers are independent business people who obtain customers for U.S. Cellular on a commission basis. U.S. Cellular’s agents are generally in the business of selling wireless telephones, wireless service packages and other related products. U.S. Cellular’s dealers include major appliance dealers, car stereo companies and mass merchants including regional and national companies. Additionally, in support of its overall internet initiatives, U.S. Cellular has recruited agents which provide services exclusively through the internet. U.S. Cellular’s business and growth depends, in part, on the maintenance of satisfactory relationships with its agents, dealers and other third-party retailers. If such relationships are seriously harmed, U.S. Cellular’s revenues and, as a result, its financial condition or results of operations, could be adversely affected. 27 U.S. Cellular’s investments in technologies which are unproven or for which success has not yet been demonstrated may not produce the benefits that U.S. Cellular expects. U.S. Cellular is making investments in various new technologies and service and product offerings. These investments include technologies for enhanced data services offerings. U.S. Cellular expects new services, products and solutions based on these new technologies to contribute to future growth in its revenues. However, the markets for some of these services, products and solutions are still emerging and the overall potential for these markets remains uncertain. If customer demand for these new services, products and solutions does not develop as expected, U.S. Cellular’s financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. A failure by U.S. Cellular to complete significant network build and system implementation as part of its plans to improve the quality, coverage, capabilities and capacity of its network could have an adverse effect on its operations. U.S. Cellular’s business plan includes significant build activities and enhancements to its network. As U.S. Cellular deploys, expands, and enhances its network, it may need to acquire additional spectrum. Also, as U.S. Cellular continues to build out and enhance its network, U.S. Cellular must, among other things, continue to: · lease, acquire or otherwise obtain rights to cell and switch sites; · obtain zoning variances or other local governmental or third-party approvals or permits for network construction; · complete and update the radio frequency design, including cell site design, frequency planning and network optimization, for each of U.S. Cellular’s markets; and · improve, expand and maintain customer care, network management, billing and other financial and management systems. Any difficulties encountered in completing these activities, as well as problems in vendor equipment availability, technical resources, system performance or system adequacy, could delay expansion of operations and product capabilities in new or existing markets or result in increased costs in all markets. Failure to successfully build out and enhance U.S. Cellular’s network and necessary support facilities and systems in a cost effective manner, and in a manner that satisfies customer expectations for quality and coverage, could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s business, business prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Financial difficulties of U.S. Cellular’s key suppliers or vendors, or termination or impairment of U.S. Cellular’s relationships with such suppliers or vendors, could result in a delay or termination of U.S. Cellular’s receipt of equipment, services or content which could adversely affect U.S. Cellular’s business and results of operations. U.S. Cellular depends upon certain vendors to provide it with equipment, services or content that U.S. Cellular needs to continue U.S. Cellular’s network build and upgrade and to operate its business. U.S. Cellular does not have operational or financial control over any of such key suppliers and has limited influence with respect to the manner in which these key suppliers conduct their businesses. If these key suppliers experience financial difficulties and are unable to provide equipment, services or content to U.S. Cellular on a timely basis or cease to provide such equipment, services or content or if such key suppliers otherwise fail to honor their obligations to U.S. Cellular, U.S. Cellular may be unable to maintain and upgrade its network or provide services to its customers in a competitive manner, or could suffer other disruptions to its business. In that event, U.S. Cellular’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. U.S. Cellular has significant investments in entities that it does not control. Losses in the value of such investments could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s results of operations or financial condition. U.S. Cellular has significant investments in entities that it does not control, including a 5.5% ownership interest in the Los Angeles SMSA Limited Partnership (the “LA Partnership”) which represents a significant portion of U.S. Cellular’s net income. U.S. Cellular cannot provide assurance that U.S. Cellular’s proportionate share of income from the LA Partnership will continue at the current level in the future. A reduction in income from the LA Partnership could adversely affect U.S. Cellular’s financial condition or results of operations. 28 War, conflicts, hostilities and/or terrorist attacks or equipment failure, power outages, natural disasters or breaches of network or information technology security could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Wars, conflicts, hostilities, terrorist attacks, major equipment failures, power outages, natural disasters, breaches of network or information technology security or similar disasters or failures that affect U.S. Cellular’s mobile telephone switching offices, information systems, microwave links, third-party owned local and long distance networks on which U.S. Cellular relies, U.S. Cellular’s cell sites or other equipment or the networks of other providers which U.S. Cellular’s customers use or on which they roam could have a material adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s operations. Although U.S. Cellular has certain back-up and similar arrangements, it has not established a formal, comprehensive business continuity or emergency response plan at this time. As a result, under certain circumstances, U.S. Cellular may not be prepared to continue its operations, respond to emergencies or recover from disasters or other similar events. U.S. Cellular’s inability to operate its telecommunications system or access or operate its information systems even for a limited time period, or the loss or disclosure of customer data, may result in a loss of customers or impair U.S. Cellular’s ability to serve customers or attract new customers, which could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The market price of U.S. Cellular’s Common Shares is subject to fluctuations due to a variety of factors. U.S. Cellular’s stock price is subject to fluctuations from time to time due to a variety of factors such as: · general economic conditions; · wireless and telecommunications industry conditions; · fluctuations in U.S. Cellular’s quarterly customer activations, churn rate, revenues, results of operations or cash flows; · variations between U.S. Cellular’s actual financial and operating results and those expected by analysts and investors; and · announcements by U.S. Cellular’s competitors. Any of these or other factors could adversely affect the future market price of U.S. Cellular’s stock, or cause the future market price of the stock to fluctuate from time to time. Changes in accounting requirements or in guidance or interpretations related to such requirements, changes in industry practice, identification of errors or changes in estimates or assumptions could require restatements of financial information or amendments to disclosures included in this or prior filings with the SEC. U.S. Cellular prepares its consolidated financial statement in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) and files such financial statements with the SEC in accordance with the SEC’s rules and regulations. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires U.S. Cellular to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. U.S. Cellular bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions and information that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Changes in accounting requirements or in guidance or interpretations related to such requirements, changes in industry practice, identification of errors or changes in estimates or assumptions could require restatements of financial information or amendments to disclosures included in this or prior filings with the SEC. 29 Restatements of financial statements by U.S. Cellular and related matters, including resulting delays in filing periodic reports with the SEC, could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s credit rating, liquidity, financing arrangements, capital resources and ability to access the capital markets, including pursuant to shelf registration statements; could adversely affect U.S. Cellular’s listing arrangements on the American Stock Exchange and/or New York Stock Exchange; and/or could have other negative consequences, any of which could have an adverse effect on the trading prices of U.S. Cellular’s publicly traded equity and/or debt and/or U.S. Cellular’s business, financial condition or results of operations. U.S. Cellular announced restatements of its financial statements in November 2005 and November 2006, which resulted in delays in the filing of periodic reports with the SEC. This resulted in downgrades of U.S. Cellular’s credit ratings, defaults under U.S. Cellular’s revolving credit agreement and certain forward contracts, non-compliance under U.S. Cellular’s debt indenture, non-compliance under the requirements of the American Stock Exchange with respect to the listing of the U.S. Cellular Common Shares and non-compliance with the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange with respect to the listing of certain series of U.S. Cellular debt thereon. These or possible future restatements and delays, or any subsequent delays in filing reports with the SEC, could have adverse consequences, including the following: U.S. Cellular’s credit ratings could be further downgraded, which would result in an increase in its borrowing costs and could make if more difficult for U.S. Cellular to borrow funds on satisfactory terms. The lenders on U.S. Cellular’s revolving credit agreement could refuse to waive or extend a waiver of defaults, impose restrictive covenants or conditions or require increased payments and fees. The holders of debt under U.S. Cellular’s indenture could attempt to assert a default and, if this is successful and U.S. Cellular does not cure the default in a timely manner, accelerate such debt. The American Stock Exchange could begin delisting proceedings with respect to the U.S. Cellular Common Shares. The New York Stock Exchange could begin delisting proceedings with respect to U.S. Cellular debt that is listed thereon. U.S. Cellular may not be able to file shelf registration statements on Form S-3 for an extended period of time, which may limit U.S. Cellular’s ability to access the capital markets. U.S. Cellular may not be able to use Form S-8 registration statements relating to its employee benefit plans, which may have an adverse affect on U.S. Cellular’s ability to attract and retain employees. U.S. Cellular also could face shareholder litigation or SEC enforcement action. The pending SEC investigation regarding the restatement of U.S. Cellular’s financial statements could result in substantial expenses, and could result in monetary or other penalties. The staff of the SEC is conducting an informal inquiry regarding U.S. Cellular’s accounting practices in response to the restatements that were announced in November 2005 and November 2006. U.S. Cellular is cooperating fully with the SEC staff. However, depending upon the scope and duration of the SEC’s review, substantial expenses and diversion of management’s attention and resources for the foreseeable future could be required. Also, if U.S. Cellular is unsuccessful in defending against this or other investigations or proceedings, U.S. Cellular could incur monetary or other penalties that could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in facts or circumstances, including new or additional information that affects the calculation of potential liabilities for contingent obligations under guarantees, indemnities or otherwise, could require U.S. Cellular to record charges in excess of amounts accrued in the financial statements, if any, which could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s financial condition or results of operations. The preparation of financial statements requires U.S. Cellular to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. U.S. Cellular bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions and information that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Changes in facts or circumstances, including new or additional information that affects the calculation of potential liabilities for contingent obligations under guarantees, indemnities or otherwise, could require U.S. Cellular to record charges in excess of amounts accrued in the financial statements, if any, which could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s financial condition or results of operations. 30 A failure to successfully remediate the existing material weakness in internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner or the identification of additional material weaknesses in the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting could result in inaccurate financial statements or other disclosures or fail to prevent fraud, which could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, U.S. Cellular is required to furnish a report of management's assessment of the design and effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as part of its Form 10-K filed with the SEC. U.S. Cellular management is also required to report on the effectiveness of U.S. Cellular’s disclosure controls and procedures. The independent auditors of U.S. Cellular are required to attest to, and report on, the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. As disclosed in this Form 10-K, U.S. Cellular management has identified a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting and, accordingly, has determined that internal control over financial reporting was not effective at December 31, 2007. Reference is made to Item 9A of this Form 10-K for a description of such material weakness in internal control over financial reporting. Such material weakness could result in inaccurate financial statements or other disclosures or failure to prevent fraud, which could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, if U.S. Cellular does not successfully remediate any known material weaknesses in a timely manner, it could be subject to sanctions by regulatory authorities such as the SEC, it could fail to timely meet its regulatory reporting obligations, or investor perceptions could be negatively affected; each of these potential consequences could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Early redemptions of debt or repurchases of debt, issuances of debt, changes in operating leases, changes in purchase obligations or other factors or developments could cause the amounts reported under Contractual Obligations in U.S. Cellular’s Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to be different from the amounts actually incurred. U.S. Cellular has reported amounts with respect to future contractual obligations under the caption “Contractual Obligations” in its Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Form 10-K. The actual amounts disbursed in the future may differ materially from these currently reported amounts due to various factors, including early redemptions of debt or repurchases of debt, issuances of debt, changes in operating leases, changes in purchase obligations or other factors or developments. An increase of U.S. Cellular’s debt in the future could subject U.S. Cellular to various restrictions and higher interest costs and decrease its cash flows and earnings. U.S. Cellular may increase its debt in the future for acquisitions or other purposes. For example, U.S. Cellular may require substantial additional financing to fund capital expenditures, license purchases, operating costs and expenses, investments, or other growth initiatives. U.S. Cellular currently relies on its committed revolving credit facility to meet any additional short-term financing needs. Other sources of financing may include public or private debt. The agreements governing any indebtedness may contain financial and other covenants that could impair U.S. Cellular’s flexibility and restrict U.S. Cellular’s ability to pursue growth opportunities. In addition, increased debt levels could result in higher interest costs and lower net cash flows and earnings. 31 Uncertainty of access to capital for telecommunications companies, deterioration in the capital markets, other changes in market conditions, changes in U.S. Cellular’s credit ratings or other factors could limit or restrict the availability of financing on terms and prices acceptable to U.S. Cellular, which could require U.S. Cellular to reduce its construction, development and acquisition programs. U.S. Cellular and its subsidiaries operate a capital-intensive business. U.S. Cellular has used internally-generated funds and has also obtained substantial funds from external sources to finance the build-out and enhancement of markets, to fund acquisitions and for general corporate purposes. U.S. Cellular also may require substantial additional capital for, among other uses, acquisitions of providers of wireless telecommunications services, spectrum license or system acquisitions, system development and network capacity expansion. There can be no assurance that sufficient funds will continue to be available to U.S. Cellular or its subsidiaries on terms or at prices acceptable to U.S. Cellular. Uncertainty of access to capital for telecommunications companies, deterioration in the capital markets, other changes in market conditions, changes in U.S. Cellular’s credit ratings or other factors could limit or restrict the availability of financing on terms and prices acceptable to U.S. Cellular, which could require U.S. Cellular to reduce its construction, development and acquisition programs. In the long term, reduction of U.S. Cellular’s construction, development and acquisition programs likely would have a negative impact on U.S. Cellular’s consolidated revenues, income and cash flows. Changes in the regulatory environment or a failure by U.S. Cellular to timely or fully comply with any regulatory requirements could adversely affect U.S. Cellular’s financial condition, results of operations or ability to do business. U.S. Cellular’s operations are subject to varying degrees of regulation by the FCC, state public utility commissions and other federal, state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. Adverse decisions or increased regulation by these regulatory bodies could negatively impact U.S. Cellular’s operations by, among other things, increasing U.S. Cellular’s costs of doing business, permitting greater competition or limiting U.S. Cellular’s ability to engage in certain sales or marketing activities. U.S. Cellular’s business requires licenses granted by the FCC to provide wireless telecommunications services. Typically, such licenses are issued for initial 10-year terms and may be renewed for additional 10-year terms subject to FCC approval of the renewal applications. Failure to comply with FCC requirements in a given service area could result in the revocation of U.S. Cellular’s license for that area or in the imposition of fines. Court decisions and rulemakings, including rulemakings on intercarrier access compensation and universal service, could have a substantial impact on U.S. Cellular’s wireless operations. Litigation and different objectives among federal and state regulators could create uncertainty and delay U.S. Cellular’s ability to respond to new regulations. U.S. Cellular is unable to predict the future actions of the various regulatory bodies that govern U.S. Cellular, but such actions could have material adverse effects on U.S. Cellular’s business. For instance, currently before the FCC for comment are proposals made by the Federal-State Joint Board and by the FCC itself to change the universal service high cost fund in various ways. These proposals include: the creation of separate wireless, wireline, and broadband funds, with an overall “cap” on all funds, including the wireless fund; a separate cap on payments to wireless carriers; elimination of the “identical support” rules, thereby requiring wireless carriers to receive support based on their own costs rather than wireline “per line” costs; using “reverse auctions” (a form of competitive bidding) to determine the amount of support to be provided to eligible telecommunications carriers, and limiting the number of carriers eligible to receive support to a given area. The FCC will consider these proposals and others in 2008. It is not certain which of them, if any, will be adopted. Adoption by the FCC of any form of “cap”, of limits on the number of carriers eligible to receive support for a given area or of its proposals related to identical support or reverse auctions would likely reduce the amount of support that wireless carriers would be otherwise eligible to receive. In addition, new or amended regulatory requirements could increase U.S. Cellular’s costs and divert resources from other initiatives. U.S. Cellular attempts to timely and fully comply with all regulatory requirements. However, in certain circumstances, U.S. Cellular may not be able to timely or fully comply with all regulatory requirements due to various factors, including changes to regulatory requirements, limitations in or availability of technology, insufficient time provided for compliance, problems encountered in attempting to comply or other factors. Any failure by U.S. Cellular to timely or fully comply with any regulatory requirements could adversely affect U.S. Cellular’s financial condition, results of operations or ability to do business. 32 Changes in income tax rates, laws, regulations or rulings, or federal or state tax assessments could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s financial condition or results of operations. U.S. Cellular does not have control over changes in income tax rates, laws, regulations or rulings, or federal and state tax assessments. Income taxes and other federal or state taxes represent significant expenses for U.S. Cellular. Accordingly, changes in income tax rates, laws, regulations or rulings, or federal and state tax assessments could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s financial condition or results of operations. Settlements, judgments, restraints on its current or future manner of doing business or legal costs resulting from pending and future litigation could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s financial condition, results of operations or ability to do business. U.S. Cellular is regularly involved in a number of legal proceedings before the FCC and various state and federal courts. Such legal proceedings can be complex, costly, protracted and highly disruptive to business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and other key personnel. The assessment of legal proceedings is a highly subjective process that requires judgments about future events. The amounts ultimately received or paid upon settlement or other resolution of litigation and other contingencies may differ materially from amounts accrued in the financial statements. In addition, litigation or similar proceedings could impose restraints on U.S. Cellular’s current or future manner of doing business. Such potential outcomes could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s financial condition, results of operations or ability to do business. The possible development of adverse precedent in litigation or conclusions in professional studies to the effect that radio frequency emissions from handsets, wireless data devices and/or cell sites cause harmful health consequences, including cancer or tumors, or may interfere with various electronic medical devices such as pacemakers, could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Media reports have suggested that certain radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets may be linked to various health problems, including cancer or tumors, and may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Concerns over radio frequency emissions may discourage use of wireless handsets or expose U.S. Cellular to potential litigation. Any resulting decreases in demand for wireless services, or costs of litigation and damage awards, could impair U.S. Cellular’s ability to sustain profitability. In addition, some studies have indicated that some aspects of using wireless phones while driving may impair drivers’ attention in certain circumstances, making accidents more likely. These concerns could lead to potential litigation relating to accidents, deaths or serious bodily injuries, any of which could have an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Numerous state and local legislative bodies have proposed legislation restricting or prohibiting the use of wireless phones while driving motor vehicles. These laws or other laws, if passed, prohibiting or restricting the use of wireless phones while driving, could have the effect of reducing customer usage, which could cause an adverse effect on U.S. Cellular’s business, financial condition, or results of operations. There are potential conflicts of interests between TDS and U.S. Cellular. TDS owns over 80% of the combined total of both classes of common stock of U.S. Cellular, including a majority of the outstanding Common Shares and 100% of the Series A Common Shares, and controls approximately 95% of their combined voting power. As a result, TDS is effectively able to elect all of U.S. Cellular’s nine directors and otherwise control the management and operations of U.S. Cellular. Four of nine members of the U.S. Cellular board are executive officers of TDS or U.S. Cellular. Four directors of U.S. Cellular are also directors of TDS. Directors and officers of TDS who are also directors or officers of U.S. Cellular, and TDS as U.S. Cellular’s controlling shareholder, are in positions involving the possibility of conflicts of interest with respect to certain transactions concerning U.S. Cellular. When the interests of TDS and U.S. Cellular diverge, TDS may exercise its influence in its own best interests. 33 U.S. Cellular and TDS have entered into contractual arrangements governing certain transactions and relationships between them. These agreements were executed prior to the initial public offering of the U.S. Cellular’s Common Shares and were not the result of arm’s-length negotiations. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the terms and conditions of these agreements are as favorable to U.S. Cellular as could have been obtained from unaffiliated third parties. See “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in this Form 10-K. Conflicts of interest may arise between TDS and U.S. Cellular when faced with decisions that could have different implications for U.S. Cellular and TDS, including technology decisions, financial budgets, the payment of distributions by U.S. Cellular, business activities and other matters. TDS also may take action that favors its other businesses and the interests of its shareholders over U.S. Cellular’s wireless business and the interests of U.S. Cellular shareholders and debt holders. Because TDS controls U.S. Cellular, conflicts of interest could be resolved in a manner adverse to U.S. Cellular and its other shareholders or its debt holders. The U.S. Cellular restated certificate of incorporation provides that, so long as not less than 500,000 Series A Common Shares are outstanding, U.S. Cellular, without the written consent of TDS, shall not, directly or indirectly own, invest or otherwise have an interest in, lease, operate or manage any business other than a business engaged solely in the construction of, the ownership of interests in and/or the management of wireless telephone systems. This limitation on the scope of U.S. Cellular’s potential business could hurt the growth of U.S. Cellular’s business. This restriction would preclude U.S. Cellular from pursuing attractive related or unrelated business opportunities unless TDS consents in writing. TDS has no obligation to consent to any business opportunities proposed by U.S. Cellular and may withhold its consent in its own best interests. Certain matters, such as control by TDS and provisions in the U.S. Cellular restated certificate of incorporation, may serve to discourage or make more difficult a change in control of U.S. Cellular. TDS owns over 80% of the combined total of both classes of common stock of U.S. Cellular, including a majority of the outstanding Common Shares and 100% of the Series A Common Shares, and controls approximately 95% of their combined voting power. As a result, TDS is effectively able to elect all of U.S. Cellular’s nine directors and otherwise control the management and operations of U.S. Cellular. The control of U.S. Cellular by TDS may tend to deter non-negotiated tender offers or other efforts to obtain control of U.S. Cellular and thereby deprive shareholders of opportunities to sell shares at prices higher than those prevailing in the market. The U.S. Cellular restated certificate of incorporation also contains provisions which may serve to discourage or make more difficult a change in control of U.S. Cellular without the support of TDS or without meeting various other conditions. In particular, the authorization of multiple classes of capital stock with different voting rights could prevent shareholders from profiting from an increase in the market value of their shares as a result of a change in control of U.S. Cellular by delaying or preventing such change in control. The U.S. Cellular restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes the U.S. Cellular board of directors to designate and issue Preferred Shares in one or more classes or series from time to time. Generally, no further action or authorization by the shareholders is necessary prior to the designation or issuance of the additional Preferred Shares authorized pursuant to the U.S. Cellular restated certificate of incorporation unless applicable laws or regulations would require such approval in a given instance. Such Preferred Shares could be issued in circumstances that would serve to preserve TDS’ control of U.S. Cellular. Any of the foregoing events or other events could cause revenues, customer additions, operating income, capital expenditures and or any other financial or statistical information to vary from U.S. Cellular’s forward-looking estimates by a material amount. U.S. Cellular may from time-to-time provide forward-looking information, including estimates of future operating income; depreciation, amortization and accretion expenses; service revenues; net retail customer activations; and/or capital expenditures. Any such forward-looking information includes consideration of known or anticipated changes to the extent disclosed, but unknown or unanticipated events, including the risks discussed above, could cause such estimates to differ from the actual amounts by a material amount. 34 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 