Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully read and consider the risks described below before deciding to invest in our securities. The occurrence of any such risks may materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In any such case, the trading price of our common stock and other securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. When determining whether to invest in our securities, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Our primary asset is our non-operated interest in Piceance Energy and Piceance Energy will face substantially similar risk factors to those that face other natural gas exploration and production companies, including us, as described herein. All disclosures in this Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding operational risks facing us will also be operational risks faced by Piceance Energy. Risks Related to our Natural Gas and Oil Business and Operations We cannot be certain that our net operating loss tax carryforwards will continue to be available to offset our tax liability. As of December 31, 2012, we estimated that we had approximately $1.3 billion of net operating losses (“NOLs”). In order to utilize the NOLs, we must generate taxable income which can offset such carryforwards. The NOLs will expire if not used. The availability of NOLs to offset taxable income would be substantially reduced if we were to undergo an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382(g)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). We will be treated as having had an “ownership change” if there is more than a 50% increase in stock ownership during a three year “testing period” by “5% stockholders.” 14 In order to help us preserve the NOLs, our certificate of incorporation contains stock transfer restrictions designed to reduce the risk of an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 of the Code. We expect that the restrictions will remain in force as long as the NOLs are available. We cannot assure you, however, that these restrictions will prevent an ownership change. The NOLs will expire in various amounts, if not used, between 2027 and 2032. The Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) has not audited any of our tax returns for any of the years during the carryforward period including those returns for the years in which the losses giving rise to the NOLs were reported. We cannot assure you that we would prevail if the IRS were to challenge the availability of the NOLs. If the IRS were successful in challenging our NOLs, all or some portion of the NOLs would not be available to offset our future consolidated income and we may not be able to pay taxes that may be due. We are dependent on the results of Piceance Energy. Our principal asset is our 33.34% ownership interest in Piceance Energy. Our operating income will therefore depend heavily on the profitability of Piceance Energy and on the ability of Piceance Energy to make distributions to its owners, which is currently prohibited by the terms of the Piceance Energy Credit Facility (as described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Piceance Energy—Piceance Energy Credit Facility”). In addition, Laramie controls most decisions affecting Piceance Energy’s operations and we only have veto rights over decisions of Piceance Energy in a limited number of areas. Piceance Energy also pays to Laramie a monthly fee of $650,000 to operate and manage its assets. This will further limit Piceance Energy’s ability to make distributions to us. Our results of operations could be adversely affected until we are able to receive distributions from Piceance Energy on a timely basis. We cannot control the activities on properties we do not operate and we are unable to ensure the proper operation and profitability of these non-operated properties. Although we have representation on the board of managers of Piceance Energy, Piceance Energy is managed by Laramie, which controls its day-to-day operations. As a result, we have limited ability to exercise influence over, and control the risks associated with, the operation of these properties. The success and timing of drilling and development activities therefore will depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including Laramie’s: • timing and amount of capital expenditures; • expertise and diligence in adequately performing operations and complying with applicable agreements; • financial resources; • inclusion of other participants in drilling wells; and • use of technology. As a result of any of the above or other failure of Laramie to act in ways that are in our best interest, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Inadequate liquidity could materially and adversely affect our business operations in the future. Following the consummation of the Plan and our emergence from bankruptcy, our primary source of cash flow has been borrowings under the Loan Agreement (as described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”). If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our obligations, we may be forced to reduce our capital expenditures, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be affected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our liquidity is constrained by the restrictions on Piceance Energy’s ability to distribute cash to us under the Piceance Energy Credit Facility, by our need to satisfy our obligations under our debt agreements including in particular the Compass Letter of Credit Facility and Tranche B Loan (each as described in “Part II. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”), which mature on December 26, 2013 and July 1, 2013, respectively, and by potential capital contributions to be made by us to Piceance Energy under the LLC Agreement. Our liquidity will be further constrained by the currently low level of natural gas prices, which reduces our cash flows from operations. The availability of capital when the need arises will depend upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include general economic and financial market conditions, natural gas and oil prices, our credit ratings, interest rates, market perceptions of us or the natural gas and oil industry, our market value and our operating performance. We may be unable to execute our long-term operating strategy if we cannot obtain capital from these sources when the need arises. 15 We may be unable to successfully identify, execute or effectively integrate future acquisitions, which may negatively affect our results of operations. We will continue to pursue acquisitions in the future, including acquisitions of natural gas and oil businesses and properties. Although we regularly engage in discussions with, and submit proposals to, acquisition candidates, suitable acquisitions may not be available in the future on reasonable terms. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may be unable to successfully negotiate the terms of an acquisition, finance the acquisition or, if the acquisition occurs, effectively integrate the acquired business into our existing business. Negotiations of potential acquisitions and the integration of acquired business operations may require a disproportionate amount of management’s attention and our resources. Even if we complete additional acquisitions, continued acquisition financing may not be available or available on reasonable terms, any new businesses may not generate the anticipated level of revenues, the anticipated cost efficiencies or synergies may not be realized and these businesses may not be integrated successfully or operated profitably. The success of any acquisition of natural gas and oil properties will depend on a number of factors, including the ability to estimate accurately the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net revenues attainable from the reserves and to assess possible environmental liabilities. Our inability to successfully identify, execute or effectively integrate future acquisitions may negatively affect our results of operations. Due diligence of acquired natural gas and oil properties and businesses is often incomplete, which could harm our results of operations. Even though we perform due diligence reviews (including a review of title and other records) of the natural gas and oil properties we seek to acquire that we believe is consistent with industry practices, these reviews are inherently incomplete. It is generally not feasible for us to perform an in-depth review of every individual property and all records involved in each acquisition. However, even an in-depth review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems or permit us to become familiar enough with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Even when problems are identified, we may assume certain environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with the acquired businesses and properties. The discovery of any material liabilities associated with our acquisitions could harm our results of operations. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry. We have, and will continue to have, a significant amount of indebtedness. Our degree of leverage could have important consequences, including the following: • it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; • the debt service requirements of other indebtedness in the future could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; • borrowings may be at variable rates of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates; • it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • we may from time to time be out of compliance with covenants under our debt agreements, which may allow the lenders to accelerate the related debt and foreclose on assets securing that debt. In particular, the Compass Letter of Credit Facility and Tranche B Loan mature on December 26 and July 1, 2013, respectively. Our obligation to repay this indebtedness may limit our ability to use our capital for other purposes. We may also incur additional debt, including secured indebtedness, or issue preferred stock in order to maintain adequate liquidity and develop our properties to the extent desired. A higher level of indebtedness and/or preferred stock would increase the risk that we may default on our obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations depends on our future performance. General economic conditions, natural gas and oil prices and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of securities or a refinancing of our debt include financial market conditions, the value of our assets and our performance at the time we need capital. 16 Our ability to generate cash and repay our indebtedness depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to do so could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to fund future capital expenditures and repay our indebtedness when due (including in particular the Compass Letter of Credit Facility and the Tranche B Loan which mature on December 26, 2013 and July 1, 2013, respectively) will depend on distributions from Piceance Energy, borrowings under our debt agreements and our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future. To a certain extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory conditions and other factors that are beyond our control, including the prices that we receive for our natural gas and oil production. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that Piceance Energy can or will make sufficient distributions to us or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to repay our indebtedness (including in particular the Compass Letter of Credit Facility and Tranche B Loan which mature on December 26, 2013 and July 1, 2013, respectively) or fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our needs, we may be forced to reduce our planned capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be affected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which could cause us to default on our obligations and could impair our liquidity. Natural gas and oil prices are volatile. Lower prices have adversely affected our financial position, financial results, cash flows, access to capital and ability to grow. Our revenues, operating results, profitability and future rate of growth depend primarily upon the prices we receive for the natural gas and oil we sell. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. Historically, the markets for natural gas and oil have been volatile and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in natural gas and oil prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas and oil, market uncertainty and other factors that are beyond our control, including: • worldwide and domestic supplies of natural gas and oil; • weather conditions; • the level of consumer demand; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the proximity and capacity of natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; • the price and level of foreign imports; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • the nature and extent of regulation relating to carbon and other GHG emissions; • the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • political instability or armed conflict in oil-producing regions; and • overall domestic and global economic conditions. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future natural gas and oil price movements. Declines in natural gas and oil prices not only reduce revenue, but also reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that we can produce economically and, as a result, have had, and could in the future have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and reserves. Further, oil and natural gas prices do not move in tandem. Because approximately 73% of our reserves, and 74% of Piceance Energy’s reserves, at December 31, 2012 were natural gas reserves, we are more affected by movements in natural gas prices. Natural gas prices have fallen to historic lows in recent periods. To attempt to reduce our price risk, we may enter into hedging transactions with respect to a portion of our expected future production. We cannot assure you that such transactions will reduce the risk or minimize the effect of any decline in natural gas or oil prices. Any substantial or extended decline in the prices of or demand for natural gas or oil would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, ability to meet our financial obligations and results of operations. The current financial environment may have impacts on our business and financial condition that we cannot predict. The continued instability in the global financial system and related limitation on availability of credit may continue to have an impact on our business and our financial condition, and we may continue to face challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve. Our ability to access the capital markets in the future when we would like, or need, to raise capital could be restricted as a result. The difficult financial environment may also limit the number of prospects for potential joint venture, asset monetization or other capital raising transactions that we may pursue in the future or reduce the values we are able to realize in those transactions, 17 making these transactions uneconomic or difficult to consummate. The economic situation could also adversely affect the collectability of our trade receivables and cause our commodity hedging arrangements, if any, to be ineffective if our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations. Additionally, the current economic situation could lead to reduced demand for natural gas and oil, or lower prices for natural gas and oil, or both, which would have a negative impact on our revenues. Information concerning our reserves is uncertain. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and cash flows from such reserves, including factors beyond our control. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of natural gas and oil that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of an estimate of quantities of natural gas and oil reserves, or of cash flows attributable to such reserves, is a function of the available data, assumptions regarding future natural gas and oil prices, availability and terms of financing, expenditures for future development and exploitation activities, and engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Reserves and future cash flows may also be subject to material downward or upward revisions based upon production history, development and exploitation activities, natural gas and oil prices and regulatory changes. Actual future production, revenue, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses, quantities of recoverable reserves and value of cash flows from those reserves may vary significantly from our assumptions and estimates. In addition, reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same data. Further, the difficult financing environment may inhibit our ability to finance development of our reserves in the future. The estimated quantities of proved reserves and the discounted present value of future net cash flows attributable to those reserves as of December 31, 2012 included in our periodic reports filed with the SEC were prepared by our independent reserve engineers in accordance with the rules of the SEC, and are not intended to represent the fair market value of such reserves. As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted present value of future net cash flows from proved reserves is generally based on prices and costs as required by the SEC on the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. In addition, the 10% discount factor the SEC requires to be used to calculate discounted future net revenues for reporting purposes is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on the cost of capital in effect from time to time and risks associated with our business and the natural gas and oil industry in general. We may not be able to replace production with new reserves. Our reserves will decline as they are produced unless we acquire new properties with proved reserves or conduct successful development and exploration drilling activities. Our future natural gas and oil production is highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves that are economically feasible and developing existing proved reserves, which is in turn dependent on, among other things, the availability of capital to fund such acquisition and development activity. A failure to acquire or develop new reserves would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. We may not always encounter commercially producing reservoirs through our drilling operations, new wells we drill or participate in may not be productive and we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in wells we drill or participate in. The seismic data and other technologies we may use would not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that natural gas or oil is present or may be produced economically. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Our efforts will be unprofitable if we drill dry wells or wells that are productive but do not produce enough reserves to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: • increases in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs and equipment; • unexpected drilling conditions; • title problems; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions; and • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements. 18 If natural gas or oil prices decrease or exploration and development efforts are unsuccessful, we may be required to take further writedowns. We have been required in the past to take writedowns of the carrying value of our natural gas and oil properties and other assets and may be required to do so in the future, which would reduce our earnings and there is a risk that we will be required to take additional writedowns. A writedown could occur when natural gas and oil prices are low or if we have substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of development costs or deterioration in our exploration and development results. We account for our natural gas and oil exploration and development activities utilizing the successful efforts method of accounting. Under this method, costs of productive exploratory wells, development dry holes and productive wells and undeveloped leases are capitalized. Natural gas and oil lease acquisition costs are also capitalized. Exploratory drilling costs are initially capitalized, but charged to expense if and when the well is determined not to have found reserves in commercial quantities. If the carrying amount of our natural gas and oil properties exceeds the estimated undiscounted future net cash flows, we will adjust the carrying amount of the natural gas and oil properties to their estimated fair value. We review our natural gas and oil properties for impairment quarterly or whenever events and circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Once incurred, a writedown of natural gas and oil properties is not reversible at a later date even if natural gas or oil prices increase. Given the complexities associated with natural gas and oil reserve estimates and the history of price volatility in the natural gas and oil markets, events may arise that would require us to record an impairment of the recorded carrying values associated with our natural gas and oil properties. The exploration, development and operation of natural gas and oil properties involve substantial risks that may result in a total loss of investment. The business of exploring for and, to a lesser extent, developing and operating natural gas and oil properties involves a high degree of business and financial risk, and thus a substantial risk of investment loss that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Natural gas and oil drilling and production activities may be shortened, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • availability of capital; • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse changes in prices; • adverse weather conditions; • title problems; • shortages in experienced labor; and • increases in the cost, or shortages or delays in the delivery, of equipment. We may drill wells that are unproductive or, although productive, do not produce oil and/or natural gas in economic quantities. Acquisition and completion decisions generally are based on subjective judgments and assumptions that are speculative. It is impossible to predict with certainty the production potential of a particular property or well. Furthermore, a successful completion of a well does not ensure a profitable return on the investment. A variety of geological, operational, or market-related factors, including, but not limited to, unusual or unexpected geological formations, pressures, equipment failures or accidents, fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering, pollution and other environmental risks, shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment, loss of circulation of drilling fluids or other conditions may substantially delay or prevent completion of any well or otherwise prevent a property or well from being profitable. A productive well may become uneconomic in the event water or other deleterious substances are encountered which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or natural gas from the well, or in the event of lower than expected commodity prices. In addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is contaminated with water or other deleterious substances. The marketability of our production depends mostly upon the availability, proximity and capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities, which are owned by third parties. The marketability of our production depends upon the availability, operation and capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities, which are owned by third parties. The unavailability or lack of capacity of these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. United States federal, state and foreign regulation of natural gas and oil production and transportation, tax and energy policies, damage to or destruction of pipelines, general economic conditions and changes in supply and demand could adversely affect our ability to produce and market natural gas and oil. The availability of markets and the volatility of product prices are beyond our control and represent a significant risk. 19 Prices may be affected by local and regional factors. The prices to be received for our natural gas production will be determined to a significant extent by factors affecting the local and regional supply of and demand for natural gas, including the adequacy of the pipeline and processing infrastructure in the region to process, and transport, our production and that of other producers. Those factors result in basis differentials between the published indices generally used to establish the price received for regional natural gas production and the actual (frequently lower) price we receive for our production. Seasonal weather conditions and wildlife restrictions could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations. Our operations could be adversely affected by weather conditions and wildlife restrictions. In the Rocky Mountains, certain activities cannot be conducted as effectively during the winter months. Winter and severe weather conditions limit and may temporarily halt the ability to operate during such conditions. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay or temporarily halt our operations and materially increase our operation and capital costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a critical habitat designation for certain wildlife under the U.S. Endangered Species Act or similar state laws could result in material restrictions to public or private land use and could delay or prohibit land access or development. The listing of certain species as threatened and endangered could have a material impact on our operations in areas where such listed species are found. Our industry experiences numerous operating hazards that could result in substantial losses. The exploration, development and operation of natural gas and oil properties involve a variety of operating risks including the risk of fire, explosions, blowouts, cratering, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or vandalism, and environmental hazards, including oil spills, gas leaks, pipeline ruptures or discharges of toxic gases. These industry operating risks can result in injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties, and suspension of operations which could result in substantial losses. We may be unable to compete effectively with larger companies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The natural gas and oil industry is intensely competitive, and we compete with other companies that have greater resources than us. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Many of our larger competitors not only explore for and produce natural gas and oil, but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for productive natural gas and oil properties and exploratory prospects or define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial resources permit. In addition, these companies may have a greater ability to continue exploration and development activities during periods of low natural gas and oil market prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. Our inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We may not receive payment for a portion of our future production. The concentration of credit risk in a single industry affects our overall exposure to credit risk because customers may be similarly affected by changes in economic and other conditions. If economic conditions deteriorate, it is likely that situations will occur which will expose us to added risk of not being paid for natural gas or oil that we deliver. We do not attempt to obtain credit protections such as letters of credit, guarantees or prepayments from our purchasers. We are unable to predict what impact the financial difficulties of any of our purchasers may have on our future results of operations and liquidity. 20 We have no long-term contracts to sell natural gas and oil. We do not have any long-term supply or similar agreements with governments or other authorities or entities for which we act as a producer. We are therefore dependent upon our ability to sell natural gas and oil at the prevailing wellhead market price. There can be no assurance that purchasers will be available or that the prices they are willing to pay will remain stable. Losses and liabilities from uninsured or underinsured drilling and operating activities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. We maintain several types of insurance to cover our operations, including worker’s compensation and comprehensive general liability. Amounts over base coverages are provided by primary and excess umbrella liability policies. We also maintain operator’s extra expense coverage, which covers the control of drilling or producing wells as well as redrilling expenses and pollution coverage for wells out of control. Such insurance may not be adequate to cover losses or liabilities. Also, we cannot predict the continued availability of insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase. Terrorist attacks and certain potential natural disasters may change our ability to obtain adequate insurance coverage. The occurrence of a significant event that is not fully insured or indemnified against could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operations. We may incur substantial costs to comply with the various federal, state and local laws and regulations that affect our natural gas and oil operations. We are affected significantly by a substantial amount of governmental regulations that increase costs related to the drilling of wells and the transportation and processing of natural gas and oil. It is possible that the number and extent of these regulations, and the costs to comply with them, will increase significantly in the future. In Colorado, for example, significant governmental regulations have been adopted that are primarily driven by concerns about wildlife and the environment. These government regulatory requirements may result in substantial costs that are not possible to pass through to our customers and which could impact the profitability of our operations. Our natural gas and oil operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to health and safety, land use, environmental protection or the natural gas and oil industry generally. Legislation affecting the industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing our regulatory burden. Compliance with such laws and regulations often increases our cost of doing business and, in turn, decreases our profitability. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the incurrence of investigatory or remedial obligations, or the issuance of cease and desist orders. The environmental laws and regulations to which we are subject may, among other things: • require applying for and receiving a permit before drilling commences; • restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; • limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and • impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to maintain compliance, and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our earnings, results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Over the years, we have owned or leased numerous properties for natural gas and oil activities upon which petroleum hydrocarbons or other materials may have been released by us or by predecessor property owners or lessees who were not under our control. Under applicable environmental laws and regulations, including CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination at such locations regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or whether the operations at the time of the release were standard industry practice. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Congress has considered legislation to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the natural gas and oil industry in the hydraulic fracturing process, and other legislation regulating hydraulic fracturing has been considered, and in some cases adopted, at various levels of government. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process in the completion of unconventional natural gas wells in shale formations, as well as tight conventional formations, including many of those that we complete and produce. This process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into 21 rock formations to stimulate natural gas production. Sponsors of these bills have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies and/or that hydraulic fracturing could pose a variety of other risks. Any additional level of regulation could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. Natural gas drilling and production operations require adequate sources of water to facilitate the fracturing process and the disposal of that water when it flows back to the wellbore. If we are unable to obtain adequate water supplies and dispose of the water we use or remove at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules, our ability to produce natural gas commercially and in commercial quantities would be impaired. New environmental regulations governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could have an adverse affect on our operations and financial performance. Water that is used to fracture natural gas wells must be removed when it flows back to the wellbore. Our ability to remove and dispose of water will affect our production and the cost of water treatment and disposal may affect our profitability. The imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of natural gas. We are exposed to credit risk as it affects third parties with whom we have contracted. Third parties with whom we have contracted may lose existing financing or be unable to obtain additional financing necessary to continue their businesses. The inability of a third party to make payments to us for our accounts receivable, or the failure of our third party suppliers to meet our demands because they cannot obtain sufficient credit to continue their operations, may cause us to experience losses and may adversely impact our liquidity and our ability to make our payments when due. Proposed changes to U.S. tax laws, if adopted, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The U.S. President’s Fiscal Year 2013 Budget Proposal includes provisions that would, if enacted, make significant changes to U.S. tax laws applicable to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to: • the repeal of the limited percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas production in the United States; • the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs; • the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities; and • an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. Members of the U.S. Congress have considered similar changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted. The passage of this legislation or any similar changes in federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to U.S. oil and natural gas exploration and development. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Potential legislative and regulatory actions addressing climate change could increase our costs, reduce our revenue and cash flow from natural gas and oil sales or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business. Future changes in the laws and regulations to which we are subject may make it more difficult or expensive to conduct our operations and may have other adverse effects on us. For example, the USEPA has issued a notice of finding and determination that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to human health and the environment, which allows the USEPA to begin regulating emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the CAA. The USEPA has begun to implement GHG-related reporting and permitting rules. Similarly, the U.S. Congress has considered and may in the future consider “cap and trade” legislation that would establish an economy-wide cap on emissions of GHGs in the United States and would require most sources of GHG emissions to obtain GHG emission “allowances” corresponding to their annual emissions of GHGs. Any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of GHGs would likely require us to incur increased operating costs and could have an adverse effect on demand for our production. 22 The adoption and implementation of new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and increase the working capital requirements to conduct these activities. The Dodd-Frank Act provides for new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions, including oil and natural gas hedging transactions. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act provides for the creation of position limits for certain derivatives transactions, as well as requiring certain transactions to be cleared on exchanges for which cash collateral will be required. In October 2011, the CFTC approved final rules that establish position limits for futures contracts on 28 physical commodities, including four energy commodities, and swaps, futures and options that are economically equivalent to those contracts. The rules provide an exemption for “bona fide hedging” transactions or positions, but this exemption is narrower than the exemption under existing CFTC position limit rules. These newly approved CFTC position limits rules were vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2012, although the CFTC has stated that it will appeal the District Court’s decision. It is not possible at this time to predict with certainty the full effect of the Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules on us and the timing of such effects. The Dodd-Frank Act may require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements if we do not satisfy certain specific exceptions. The Dodd-Frank Act may also require the counterparties to our derivatives contracts to transfer or assign some of their derivatives contracts to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. Depending on the rules adopted by the CFTC or similar rules that may be adopted by other regulatory bodies, we might in the future be required to provide cash collateral for our commodities hedging transactions under circumstances in which we do not currently post cash collateral. Posting of such additional cash collateral could impact liquidity and reduce our cash available for capital expenditures. A requirement to post cash collateral could therefore reduce our ability to execute hedges to reduce commodity price uncertainty and thus protect cash flows. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all acts of fraud. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, believes that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, they cannot provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our companies have been prevented or detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by an unauthorized override of the controls. The design of any systems of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement Section 404, we are required to furnish a report by our management to include in our annual reports on Form 10-K regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. We have in the past, and in the future may discover, areas of our internal control over financial reporting which may require improvement. Prior to our emergence from bankruptcy, management concluded we had material weaknesses with respect to maintaining an effective financial reporting and closing process to prepare financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The majority of the factors contributing to our material weaknesses related to the impact the bankruptcy had on critical accounting processes and related accounting resources. At December 31, 2012, management performed an assessment of the design and operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and determined that there were control gaps in our internal control and related processes that require remediation to be performed by management. Furthermore, while completing our December 31, 2012 year end close process, adjustments were identified relating to the application of fresh start 23 accounting that impacted amounts, the presentation of the financial statements and related disclosures previously reported in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2012. Accordingly, management concluded that these findings were evidence that a material weakness still exists as of December 31, 2012. These material weaknesses have not been remedied and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in the future will depend on our ability to fulfill the steps to remediate these and other material weaknesses. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective now or in any future period, or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Risks Related to Texadian Texadian’s risk management strategies may not be effective. Texadian is exposed to volatility in crude oil prices. To minimize such exposures, inventory levels are monitored when making decisions with respect to risk management. Generally, Texadian only purchases crude oil products for which it has a market and structures its purchase and sales contracts so that price fluctuations for those products do not materially affect the margin it receives. Texadian also seeks to maintain a position that is substantially balanced; however, it may experience net unbalanced positions for short periods of time as a result of transportation and delivery variances, as well as logistical issues associated with inland river conditions. Physical inventory is monitored and managed to a balanced position over a reasonable period of time. Additionally, when delays in delivery or receipt do occur they are hedged using future positions and the resulting gains or losses are recorded as derivative income or losses in the month they are realized. Texadian’s business is also affected by counterparty risk including non-performance by suppliers, vendors and counterparties, fluctuations in crude oil prices, transportation costs, the weather, energy prices, interest rates, and foreign currency exchange rates. Although Texadian may engage in hedging transactions to manage these risks, such transactions may not be successful in mitigating its exposure to these fluctuations and may adversely affect reporting and operating results. Texadian is subject to numerous laws and regulations globally that could adversely affect operating results. Texadian is required to comply with the numerous and broad reaching laws and regulations administered by United States federal, state, local, and Canadian governmental agencies relating to, but not limited to, the sourcing, transporting, storing and merchandising of crude oil. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject Texadian to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, and recalls of its products. Texadian is subject to economic downturns, political instability and other risks of doing business with a globally sourced and traded commodity, which could adversely affect operating results. If we are not successful in entering into hedging transactions, economic downturns and volatile conditions may have a negative impact on Texadian’s ability to execute its business strategies and on its financial position and its results of operations. Texadian’s results of operations could be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, and other activities of governments, agencies, and similar organizations, including political conditions, trade regulations affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, local labor conditions and regulations, burdensome taxes and tariffs, enforceability of legal agreements and judgments, and other trade barriers. Risks Related to our Common Stock The market for our common stock has been historically illiquid which may affect your ability to sell your shares. The volume of trading in our stock has historically been low. Since our emergence from bankruptcy, the average daily trading volume for our stock has been approximately 121,500 shares, although the majority of the trading days had volume of less than 5,000 shares. Having a market for shares without substantial liquidity can adversely affect the price of the stock at a time when you might want to sell your shares. We cannot assure investors that a more active trading market will develop even if we issue more equity in the future. Issuance of shares in connection with financing transactions, under stock incentive plans or in settlement of pending claims will dilute current stockholders. We have outstanding warrants exercisable for 9,592,125 shares of our common stock. In addition, pursuant to our stock incentive plan, our management is authorized to grant stock awards to our employees, directors and consultants. We will likely have to issue additional shares of common stock in satisfaction of unsecured claims which may be allowed by the Bankruptcy Court in the future. You will incur dilution upon the conversion of the warrants, the exercise of any outstanding stock awards or the grant of any 24 restricted stock or upon the issuance of shares in satisfaction of claims. In addition, if we raise additional funds by issuing additional common stock, or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for common stock, further dilution to our existing stockholders will result, and new investors could have rights superior to existing stockholders. Reduced liquidity and price volatility could result in a loss to investors. Although our common stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, there can be no assurance as to the liquidity of an investment in our common stock or as to the price an investor may realize upon the sale of our common stock. These prices are determined in the marketplace and may be influenced by many factors, including the liquidity of the market for our common stock, the market price of our common stock, investor perception and general economic and market conditions. This price volatility may make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell shares when they want at prices that they find attractive. We do not know of any one particular factor that has caused volatility in our stock price. However, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. Broad market factors and the investing public’s negative perception of our business may reduce our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. Concentrated stock ownership and a restrictive certificate of incorporation provision may discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals. Zell Credit Opportunities Fund, L.P. (“ZCOF”), Whitebox Advisors, LLC (“Whitebox”) and Waterstone Capital Management, L.P. (“Waterstone”) separately own or will have the right to acquire as of March 25, 2013, approximately 36.6%, 27.3% and 19.1%, respectively, or when aggregated, 79.9% of our outstanding common stock. The level of their combined ownership of shares of common stock could have the effect of discouraging or impeding an unsolicited acquisition proposal. In addition, the change in ownership limitations contained in Article 11 of our certificate of incorporation could have the effect of discouraging or impeding an unsolicited takeover proposal. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock, or the availability of our common stock for future sales, will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales in the public market of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. The potential effect of these shares being sold may be to depress the price at which our common stock trades. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 