Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully read and consider the risks described below before deciding to invest in our securities. The occurrence of any such risks may materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In any such case, the trading price of our common stock and other securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. When determining whether to invest in our securities, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, and in our subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Risks Related To Our Business And Industries. Inadequate liquidity could materially and adversely affect our business operations in the future. Our efforts to improve our liquidity position will be challenging given the current economic climate. Current economic fundamentals portray an uncertain outlook for the oil and natural gas exploration and development business for at least a significant portion of 2010 due to volatile oil and natural gas prices coupled with the global recession. These economic conditions have resulted in a decline in our revenues and available capital, and have caused us to significantly decrease our drilling activities and operations. Our ability to maintain adequate liquidity through 2010 11 will depend significantly on consummation of a Potential Strategic Transaction and, if so, the terms thereof, sustained commodity price improvement, adequate pipeline capacity, curtailment of operating expenses and capital spending, generation of additional working capital and the availability of funding. We are committed to exploring all options because there is no assurance that industry or capital markets conditions will improve in the near term. Consummation of a strategic transaction, sale of assets, or joint venture or partnership arrangement may be necessary to fund our capital expenditure and working capital needs in the near term. In 2009, we successfully completed a public offering of our common stock in exchange for $246.9 million of net proceeds, as well as received net proceeds of $95.7 million from the settlement of litigation in which we were involved. In 2009, we also experienced reductions in our borrowing base and our borrowing availability under our Credit Agreement, as well as a decline in revenues due to general economic conditions and commodity prices. Accordingly, the proceeds from our capital-raising activities in 2009 were used for the repayment of debt as well as capital expenditures and general working capital. Although we have significantly decreased our drilling activities and operations in recent periods, any further reductions could materially and adversely affect our continuing operations. Thus, in response to these liquidity issues, in November 2009, we announced that we were exploring strategic alternatives, including a sale of some or all of our assets, entering into partnerships or joint ventures, or the sale of the entire company. Based on the current status of our balance sheet, the consummation of one or more of these types of transactions may be required to fund our drilling activities and operations in 2010 if adequate capital is not obtained from another source. Further, our borrowings under our Credit Agreement are currently due on January 15, 2011. If we are unable to complete any Potential Strategic Transaction, we may not be able to repay the amounts outstanding under the credit facility when due without obtaining other sources of capital from additional asset sales or other alternative financing. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, our total outstanding long term liabilities were $460.9 million, including $83.3 million of outstanding borrowings drawn under DHS’s Credit Facility which are classified as current in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. Our long term indebtedness represented 39.8% of our total book capitalization at December 31, 2009. Based on the revised $185.0 million borrowing base with a required availability cushion of $20.0 million and outstanding letters of credit totaling $1.2 million, we had $39.8 million available under our credit facility as of December 31, 2009 and $70.8 million as of February 28, 2010. Our 7% senior unsecured notes indenture imposes limitations on our incurrence of additional secured borrowings. Our degree of leverage could have important consequences, including the following: • it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, further exploration, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; • a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • the debt service requirements of other indebtedness in the future could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; • certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our Credit Facility, are at variable rates of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates; • as we have pledged most of our oil and natural gas properties and the related equipment, inventory, accounts and proceeds as collateral for the borrowings under our Credit Facility, they may not be pledged as collateral for other borrowings and would be at risk in the event of a default thereunder; • it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; 12 • we are vulnerable in the present downturn in general economic conditions and in our business, and we will likely be unable to carry out capital spending and exploration activities that are important to our growth; and • we have recently been, and may from time to time be, out of compliance with covenants under our credit facility, which will require us to seek waivers from our banks, which may be more difficult to obtain in the current economic environment. We may incur additional debt, including secured indebtedness, or issue preferred stock in order to maintain adequate liquidity, develop our properties and make future acquisitions. A higher level of indebtedness and/or preferred stock increases the risk that we may default on our obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of indebtedness depends on our future performance. General economic conditions, natural gas and oil prices and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our capital stock or a refinancing of our debt include financial market conditions, the value of our assets, the number of shares of capital stock we have authorized, unissued and unreserved and our performance at the time we need capital. In addition, our bank borrowing base is subject to periodic redetermination, including a scheduled borrowing base redetermination currently in process. A further reduction to our borrowing base could require us to repay indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base, or we might be required to provide the lenders with additional collateral. Further, our existing credit facility matures on January 15, 2011 at which time all amounts outstanding thereunder will be due and payable. At current commodity prices, we do not project that we will be able to repay such borrowings without completing one or more capital raising transactions, obtaining an extension of the credit facility from the lenders, or entering into a new credit facility. As part of our consideration of Potential Strategic Transactions, we are currently engaged in seeking capital from a number of sources, including asset sales, potential joint ventures or similar industry partnerships, or an outright sale of the company. Natural gas and oil prices are volatile. Lower prices have adversely affected our financial position, financial results, cash flows, access to capital and ability to grow. Our revenues, operating results, profitability and future rate of growth depend primarily upon the prices we receive for the natural gas and oil we sell. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. The amount we can borrow from the lending banks in our credit facility is subject to periodic redeterminations based on prices specified by our bank group at the time of redetermination. In addition, we may have asset carrying value write-downs if prices fall, as was the case in 2009. Historically, the markets for natural gas and oil have been volatile and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in natural gas and oil prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas and oil, market uncertainty and other factors that are beyond our control, including: • worldwide and domestic supplies of natural gas and oil; • weather conditions; • the level of consumer demand; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the proximity and capacity of natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; • the price and level of foreign imports; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • the nature and extent of regulation relating to carbon and other greenhouse gas emissions; 13 • the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • political instability or armed conflict in oil-producing regions; and • overall domestic and global economic conditions. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future natural gas and oil price movements with any certainty. Declines in natural gas and oil prices not only reduce revenue, but also reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that we can produce economically and, as a result, have had, and could in the future have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and reserves. Further, natural gas and oil prices do not move in tandem. Because approximately 82% of our reserves at December 31, 2009 were natural gas reserves, we are more affected by movements in natural gas prices. Further reduction of our credit ratings, or failure to restore our credit ratings to higher levels, could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to attract capital investment. Our credit ratings have been downgraded to historically low levels. Our unsecured debt is currently assigned a non-investment grade rating by each of the four nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. The decline in our credit ratings reflects the agencies’ concerns over our financial strength. Our current credit ratings reduce our access to the unsecured debt markets and will unfavorably impact our overall cost of borrowing. Further downgrades of our current credit ratings or significant worsening of our financial condition could also result in increased demands by our suppliers for accelerated payment terms or other more onerous supply terms. The current financial environment may have impacts on our business and financial condition that we cannot predict. The continued instability in the global financial system and related limitation on availability of credit may continue to have an impact on our business and our financial condition, and we may continue to face challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve. Once adopted, our operating and capital budget for 2010 will most likely allow us to fund our business with anticipated internally generated cash flow, cash resources and other sources of liquidity, such sources historically have not been sufficient to fund all of our expenditures, and we have relied on the capital markets and asset monetization transactions to provide us with additional capital. Our ability to access the capital markets has been restricted as a result of the economic downturn and related financial market conditions and may be restricted in the future when we would like, or need, to raise capital. The difficult financial environment may also limit the number of prospects for our potential joint venture or asset monetization transactions that we are marketing or reduce the values we are able to realize in those transactions, making these transactions uneconomic or difficult to consummate and limit our ability to attract joint venture partners to develop our reserves. The economic situation could also adversely affect the collectability of our trade receivables and cause our commodity hedging arrangements, if any, to be ineffective if our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations. Additionally, the current economic situation could lead to further reduced demand for natural gas and oil, or lower prices for natural gas and oil, or both, which would have a negative impact on our revenues. Information concerning our reserves is uncertain. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and cash flows from such reserves, including factors beyond our control. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of an estimate of quantities of oil and natural gas reserves, or of cash flows attributable to such reserves, is a function of the available data, assumptions regarding future oil and natural gas prices, availability and terms of financing, expenditures for future development and exploitation activities, and engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Reserves and future cash flows may also be subject to material downward or upward revisions based upon production history, development and exploitation activities, oil and natural gas prices and regulatory changes. Actual future production, revenue, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses, quantities of recoverable reserves and value of cash flows from those reserves may vary significantly from our assumptions and estimates. In addition, reserve engineers 14 may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same data. Further, the difficult financing environment may inhibit our ability to finance development of our reserves in the future. The estimated quantities of proved reserves and the discounted present value of future net cash flows attributable to those reserves as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 included in our periodic reports filed with the SEC were prepared by our independent reserve engineers in accordance with the rules of the SEC, and are not intended to represent the fair market value of such reserves. As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted present value of future net cash flows from proved reserves is generally based on prices and costs as required by the SEC on the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. For 2008 and 2007, in accordance with SEC rules at the time, proved reserves were based on single day year-end prices. For 2009, in accordance with new SEC rules, proved reserves were prepared based on the twelve month average first of month historical price. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which the SEC requires to be used to calculate discounted future net revenues for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on the cost of capital in effect from time to time and risks associated with our business and the oil and gas industry in general. We may not be able to replace production with new reserves. Our reserves will decline significantly as they are produced unless we acquire properties with proved reserves or conduct successful development and exploration drilling activities. Our future oil and natural gas production is highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves that are economically feasible and developing existing proved reserves. Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. We do not always encounter commercially productive reservoirs through our drilling operations. The new wells we drill or participate in may not be productive and we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in wells we drill or participate in. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil or natural gas is present or may be produced economically. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Our efforts will be unprofitable if we drill dry wells or wells that are productive but do not produce enough reserves to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: • increases in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs and equipment; • unexpected drilling conditions; • title problems; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions; and • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements. If oil or natural gas prices decrease or exploration and development efforts are unsuccessful, we may be required to take further writedowns. In the past, we have been required to write down the carrying value of our oil and gas properties and other assets. There is a risk that we will be required to take additional writedowns in the future, which would reduce our earnings and stockholders’ equity. A writedown could occur when oil and natural gas prices are low or if we have substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of development costs or deterioration in our exploration and development results. 15 We account for our crude oil and natural gas exploration and development activities utilizing the successful efforts method of accounting. Under this method, costs of productive exploratory wells, development dry holes and productive wells and undeveloped leases are capitalized. Oil and gas lease acquisition costs are also capitalized. Exploratory drilling costs are initially capitalized, but charged to expense if and when the well is determined not to have found reserves in commercial quantities. If the carrying amount of our oil and gas properties exceeds the estimated undiscounted future net cash flows, we will adjust the carrying amount of the oil and gas properties to their estimated fair value. We review our oil and gas properties for impairment quarterly or whenever events and circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Once incurred, a writedown of oil and gas properties is not reversible at a later date even if gas or oil prices increase. Given the complexities associated with oil and gas reserve estimates and the history of price volatility in the oil and gas markets, events may arise that would require us to record an impairment of the recorded carrying values associated with our oil and gas properties. As a result of this assessment, during the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded impairment provisions to our proved and unproved properties totaling approximately $155.5 million primarily related to our non-operated Garden Gulch field in the Piceance Basin ($38.6 million), Haynesville Shale ($27.5 million), Columbia River Basin ($21.4 million), Lighthouse Bayou ($14.8 million), proved and unproved impairments in various Gulf Coast fields ($29.2 million), Vega surface land ($10.5 million), proved and unproved impairments in various Rockies fields ($6.9 million), and pipe and tubular inventory ($4.3 million). Lastly, we recorded an impairment of $1.9 million to reduce the Paradox pipeline carrying value to its estimated fair value. In 2008, we recorded impairment provisions to our proved and unproved properties totaling approximately $305.6 million primarily related to the Newton, Midway Loop, Opossum Hollow and Angleton fields in Texas ($192.5 million), Paradox field in Utah ($30.5 million), Howard Ranch and Bull Canyon fields in the Rockies ($32.0 million), Utah Hingeline ($40.8 million) and our offshore California field ($9.8 million). The impairments were primarily due to the significant decline in commodity pricing during the fourth quarter of 2008. In addition, we recorded impairments to our Paradox pipeline ($21.5 million), certain DHS rigs ($21.6 million) and we wrote off DHS’s goodwill ($7.7 million). We incurred dry hole costs of approximately $33.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 related primarily to our Columbia River Basin exploratory well in Washington. During 2008, we recorded dry hole costs totaling $111.9 million for nine wells in Utah, four wells in Texas, two wells in Wyoming, two wells in California, one well in Louisiana and a non-operated project in the Columbia River Basin. At December 31, 2009, we had no exploratory work in process. Lower natural gas and oil prices have negatively impacted, and could continue to negatively impact, our ability to borrow. Our Credit Agreement limits our borrowings to the lesser of the borrowing base and the total commitments. The borrowing base is determined periodically at the discretion of the banks and is based in part on natural gas and oil prices. Additionally, the indenture governing our 7% senior notes contains covenants imposing limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness in addition to that incurred under our revolving bank credit facility. These agreements limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness unless we meet one of two alternative tests. The first alternative is based on our adjusted consolidated net tangible assets (as defined in our lending agreements), which is determined using discounted future net revenues from proved natural gas and oil reserves as of the end of each year. The second alternative is based on the ratio of our consolidated EBITDAX (as defined in the relevant indentures) to our adjusted consolidated interest expense over a trailing twelve-month period. Currently, we are permitted to incur additional indebtedness under both debt incurrence tests, however, our borrowing base has been redetermined at a level that will not permit additional borrowing under our Credit Facility. Lower natural gas and oil prices in the future could reduce our consolidated EBITDAX, as well as our adjusted consolidated net tangible assets, and thus could reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Lower natural gas and oil prices could also further reduce the borrowing base under our revolving bank credit facility, and if such borrowing base were reduced below the amount of borrowings outstanding, we would be required to repay an amount of borrowings such that outstanding borrowings do not exceed the borrowing base. Pursuant to the Second Amendment to the Credit Facility, our borrowing base under the Credit Facility was reduced to $185.0 million, with a requirement that we maintain minimum availability of $20.0 million. 16 The exploration, development and operation of oil and gas properties involve substantial risks that may result in a total loss of investment. The business of exploring for and, to a lesser extent, developing and operating oil and gas properties involves a high degree of business and financial risk, and thus a substantial risk of investment loss that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Oil and gas drilling and production activities may be shortened, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • availability of capital; • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse changes in prices; • adverse weather conditions; • title problems; • shortages in experienced labor; and • increases in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. The cost to develop our proved reserves as of December 31, 2009 is estimated to be approximately $78.0 million. In the current financing environment and given the significant capital we have raised in recent years, we expect it to be more difficult to obtain that capital than in the past and it may limit our success in attracting joint venture or industry partners to develop our reserves. We may drill wells that are unproductive or, although productive, do not produce oil and/or natural gas in economic quantities. Acquisition and completion decisions generally are based on subjective judgments and assumptions that are speculative. It is impossible to predict with certainty the production potential of a particular property or well. Furthermore, a successful completion of a well does not ensure a profitable return on the investment. A variety of geological, operational, or market-related factors, including, but not limited to, unusual or unexpected geological formations, pressures, equipment failures or accidents, fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering, pollution and other environmental risks, shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment, loss of circulation of drilling fluids or other conditions may substantially delay or prevent completion of any well or otherwise prevent a property or well from being profitable. A productive well may become uneconomic in the event water or other deleterious substances are encountered which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or natural gas from the well, or in the event of lower than expected commodity prices. In addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is contaminated with water or other deleterious substances. The marketability of our production depends mostly upon the availability, proximity and capacity of gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities, which are owned by third parties. The marketability of our production depends upon the availability, operation and capacity of gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities, which are owned by third parties. The unavailability or lack of capacity of these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. United States federal, state and foreign regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, damage to or destruction of pipelines, general economic conditions and changes in supply and demand could adversely affect our ability to produce and market oil and natural gas. If market factors changed dramatically, the financial impact on us could be substantial. The availability of markets and the volatility of product prices are beyond our control and represent a significant risk. 17 Prices may be affected by regional factors. The prices to be received for the natural gas production from our Rocky Mountain Region properties, where we are conducting a substantial portion of our development activities, will be determined to a significant extent by factors affecting the regional supply of and demand for natural gas, including the adequacy of the pipeline and processing infrastructure in the region to process, and transport, our production and that of other producers. Those factors result in basis differentials between the published indices generally used to establish the price received for regional natural gas production and the actual (frequently lower) price we receive for our production. Our industry experiences numerous operating hazards that could result in substantial losses. The exploration, development and operation of oil and gas properties also involve a variety of operating risks including the risk of fire, explosions, blowouts, cratering, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or vandalism, and environmental hazards, including oil spills, gas leaks, pipeline ruptures or discharges of toxic gases. These industry-operating risks can result in injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties, and suspension of operations which could result in substantial losses. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above. Such insurance may not be adequate to cover losses or liabilities. Also, we cannot predict the continued availability of insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase. Terrorist attacks and certain potential natural disasters may change our ability to obtain adequate insurance coverage. The occurrence of a significant event that is not fully insured or indemnified against could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operations. We depend on key personnel. We currently have four employees that serve in executive management roles. In particular, John R. Wallace, our President, and Carl Lakey, our Senior Vice President - Operations are responsible for the operation of our oil and gas business, Kevin K. Nanke is our Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer, and Stanley F. Freedman is our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. The loss of any one of these employees could severely harm our business. We do not have key man insurance on the lives of any of these individuals. Furthermore, competition for experienced personnel is intense. If we cannot retain our current personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. We are exposed to additional risks through our drilling business, DHS. We currently have a 49.8% ownership interest in and management control of DHS, a drilling business. The operations of that entity are subject to many additional hazards that are inherent to the drilling business, including, for example, blowouts, cratering, fires, explosions, loss of well control, loss of hole, damaged or lost drill strings and damage or loss from inclement weather. No assurance can be given that the insurance coverage maintained by that entity will be sufficient to protect it against liability for all consequences of well disasters, personal injury, extensive fire damage or damage to the environment. No assurance can be given that the drilling business will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates it considers reasonable or that any particular types of coverage will be available. The occurrence of events, including any of the above-mentioned risks and hazards that are not fully insured, could subject the drilling business to significant liability. It is also possible that we might sustain significant losses through the operation of the drilling business even if none of such events occurs. DHS has significant near-term liquidity issues. There is a significant risk that DHS will continue to not be able to meet its debt covenants under its credit facility. DHS currently has only seven of its 18 rigs in operation and expects to continue to incur liquidity pressures during 2010 due to the industry-wide decrease in drilling activities. DHS is now highly leveraged relative to its currently reduced cash flow and its lender, Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc., (“LCPI”) has filed for bankruptcy protection. DHS is in the process of attempting to procure amended financing terms from LCPI or alternative financing from other sources with more favorable debt terms, but there can be no assurance that its efforts will be successful. At 18 December 31, 2009, DHS owed $83.3 million under its credit facility. In the event that DHS is not successful in obtaining alternative financing or making satisfactory arrangements with the LCPI bankruptcy trustee, it is likely that DHS will continue to be in default of its debt covenants under its credit facility in 2010 unless market conditions improve significantly. In such event, all of the amounts due under the credit facility would become immediately due and payable if LCPI exercised its rights under the terms of the credit facility. All of the DHS rigs are pledged as collateral for the credit facility, and would be subject to foreclosure in the event of a default under the credit facility. While the DHS credit facility is non-recourse to Delta, Delta is a significant creditor of DHS, with accounts payable to DHS of $20.5 million as of December 31, 2009. Delta has a net investment of approximately $8.5 million in DHS. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains or cause us to lose money. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of oil and gas, we periodically enter into oil and gas price hedging arrangements, typically costless collars. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile oil and gas prices, such transactions, depending on the hedging instrument used, may limit our potential gains if oil and gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • production is substantially less than expected; • the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or • a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts gas or oil prices. The total gains (losses) on derivative instruments recognized in our statements of operations were ($28.1 million), $21.7 million, and $10.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. At December 31, 2009, we had derivative contracts in place that originally established a floor price for our anticipated production of 40% for the last two quarters of 2009, 70% for the calendar year 2010 and 50% for the calendar year 2011. We may not receive payment for a portion of our future production. Our revenues are derived principally from uncollateralized sales to customers in the oil and gas industry. The concentration of credit risk in a single industry affects our overall exposure to credit risk because customers may be similarly affected by changes in economic and other conditions. Although we have not been directly affected, we are aware that some refiners have filed for bankruptcy protection, which has caused the affected producers to not receive payment for the production that was delivered. If economic conditions continue to deteriorate, it is likely that additional, similar situations will occur which will expose us to added risk of not being paid for oil or gas that we deliver. We do not attempt to obtain credit protections such as letters of credit, guarantees or prepayments from our purchasers. We are unable to predict what impact the financial difficulties of any of our purchasers may have on our future results of operations and liquidity. We have no long-term contracts to sell oil and gas. We do not have any long-term supply or similar agreements with governments or other authorities or entities for which we act as a producer. We are therefore dependent upon our ability to sell oil and gas at the prevailing wellhead market price. There can be no assurance that purchasers will be available or that the prices they are willing to pay will remain stable and not decline. Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities could adversely affect our business. The United States has been the target of terrorist attacks of unprecedented scale. The U.S. government has issued warnings that U.S. energy assets may be the future targets of terrorist organizations. These developments have subjected our operations to increased risks. Any terrorist attack at our facilities, or those of our purchasers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 19 We own properties in the Gulf Coast Region that could be susceptible to damage by severe weather. Certain areas in and near the Gulf of Mexico experience hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a relatively frequent basis. Some of our properties in the Gulf Coast Region are located in areas that could cause them to be susceptible to damage by these storms. Damage caused by high winds and flooding could potentially cause us to curtail operations and/or exploration and development activities on such properties for significant periods of time until damage can be repaired. Moreover, even if our properties are not directly damaged by such storms, we may experience disruptions in our ability to sell our production due to damage to pipelines, roads and other transportation and refining facilities in the area. We may incur substantial costs to comply with the various federal, state and local laws and regulations that affect our oil and gas operations. We are affected significantly by a substantial amount of governmental regulations that increase costs related to the drilling of wells and the transportation and processing of oil and gas. It is possible that the number and extent of these regulations, and the costs to comply with them, will increase significantly in the future. In Colorado, for example, significant new governmental regulations have been adopted that are primarily driven by concerns about wildlife and the environment. These government regulatory requirements complicate our plans for development and may result in substantial costs that are not possible to pass through to our customers and which could impact the profitability of our Colorado operations. Our oil and gas operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to health and safety, land use, environmental protection or the oil and gas industry generally. Legislation affecting the industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing our regulatory burden. Compliance with such laws and regulations often increases our cost of doing business and, in turn, decreases our profitability. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the incurrence of investigatory or remedial obligations, or issuance of cease and desist orders. The environmental laws and regulations to which we are subject may: • require applying for and receiving a permit before drilling commences; • restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; • limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and • impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to maintain compliance, and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our earnings, results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Over the years, we have owned or leased numerous properties for oil and gas activities upon which petroleum hydrocarbons or other materials may have been released by us or by predecessor property owners or lessees who were not under our control. Under applicable environmental laws and regulations, including CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination at such locations regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or if our operations were standard in the industry at the time they were performed. Our gas drilling and production operations require adequate sources of water to facilitate the fracturing process and the disposal of that water when it flows back to the well-bore. If we are unable to dispose of the water we use or remove at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules, our ability to produce gas commercially and in commercial quantities could be impaired. 20 New environmental regulations governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could have an adverse affect on our operations and financial performance. Further, we must remove the water that we use to fracture our gas wells when it flows back to the well-bore. Our ability to remove and dispose of water will affect our production and the cost of water treatment and disposal may affect our profitability. The imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of natural gas. We may be unable to draw funds from our existing credit facilities. Our subsidiary, DHS Drilling Company, has a credit facility with Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc. (“Lehman”). During the year ended December 31, 2008, DHS paid a deposit of $1.3 million for the acquisition of a drilling rig that was expected to close in October 2008. Because of the bankruptcy of Lehman and the inability of Lehman to fund, DHS was unable to close on the acquisition and forfeited its deposit. We maintain a Credit Facility underwritten by a syndicate of financial institutions that we use to fund our capital expenditures and working capital requirements. If the financial institutions underwriting our credit facility file for bankruptcy or otherwise refuse our funding requests, we may incur unforeseen expenses, lose business opportunities, or become unable to make payments when due. We are exposed to credit risk as it affects third parties with whom we have contracted. Third parties with whom we have contracted may lose existing financing or be unable to obtain additional financing necessary to continue their businesses. The inability of a third party to make payments to us for our accounts receivable, or the failure of our third party suppliers to meet our demands because they cannot obtain sufficient credit to continue their operations, may cause us to experience losses and may adversely impact our liquidity and our ability to make our payments when due. Potential legislative and regulatory actions addressing climate change could increase our costs, reduce our revenue and cash flow from natural gas and oil sales or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business. Recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases” and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere. In December 2009, the EPA issued proposed regulations that would require a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and also could require permits for emitting greenhouse gas from certain stationary sources such as ours. Congress has also been considering various bills that would establish an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce U.S. emissions of greenhouse gases and at least one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. As an alternative to reducing emission of greenhouse gases under cap and trade programs, Congress may consider the implementation of a program to tax the emission of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. The net effect of such legislation would be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil, refined petroleum products and natural gas. Passage of climate change legislation or other regulatory initiatives by Congress or various states of the U.S. or the adoption of regulations by the EPA or analogous state agencies that regulate or restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which we conduct business, could increase the costs of our operations, including new or increased costs to operate and maintain our equipment and facilities, install new emission controls on our equipment and facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. Moreover, incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources could reduce demand for natural gas and oil. Reductions in our revenues or increases in our expenses as a result of climate control initiatives could have adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. 21 Risks Related To Our Stock. Our largest stockholder has the power to significantly influence the future of our Company. As of February 28, 2010, our largest stockholder, Tracinda Corporation (“Tracinda”), beneficially owned 93,798,000 shares of our common stock, or approximately 34% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Pursuant to the Company Stock Purchase Agreement that we entered into with Tracinda Corporation on December 29, 2007, Tracinda Corporation has certain rights, including the right to designate a number of members of our Board of Directors proportional to their ownership in the Company, preemptive rights in connection with future equity issuances by us, and consent rights over certain types of actions. Tracinda has designated three out of the eleven members currently comprising our Board of Directors. While Tracinda Corporation agreed not to acquire more than 49% of our outstanding common stock until February 20, 2009, after such date there are no limitations as to the number of our outstanding shares of common stock that Tracinda Corporation may acquire. Consequently, Tracinda Corporation has the power to significantly influence matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. The acquisition of 50% or more of our common stock by Tracinda or any other stockholder would require us to repurchase all of our senior notes and convertible notes per the terms of our indentures. This concentration of ownership may make it more difficult for other stockholders to effect substantial changes in our Company and may also have the effect of delaying, preventing or expediting, as the case may be, a change in control of our Company. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Approximately 40% of our common stock is held by institutional investors who now each have ownership of greater than 5% of our common stock. Sales by Tracinda Corporation, or other of our large institutional investors, of a substantial number of shares of our common stock into the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. We may issue shares of preferred stock with greater rights than our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock and set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from our stockholders. Any preferred stock that is issued may rank ahead of our common stock, in terms of dividends, liquidation rights and voting rights. There may be future dilution of our common stock. To the extent options to purchase common stock under our employee and director stock option plans, outstanding warrants to purchase common stock are exercised or the price vesting triggers under the performance shares granted to our executive officers are satisfied, or additional shares of restricted stock are issued to employees of the Company, holders of our common stock will experience dilution. As of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding options to purchase 1,427,750 shares of common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $8.21. Further, if we sell additional equity or convertible debt securities, such sales could result in increased dilution to our existing stockholders and cause the price of our outstanding securities to decline. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never paid dividends with respect to our common stock, and we do not expect to pay any dividends, in cash or otherwise, in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any earnings for use in our business. In addition, the credit agreement relating to our credit facility prohibits us from paying any dividends and the indenture governing our senior notes restricts our ability to pay dividends. In the future, we may agree to further restrictions. The common stock is an unsecured equity interest in our Company. As an equity interest, our common stock is not secured by any of our assets. Therefore, in the event we are liquidated, the holders of the common stock will receive a distribution only after all of our secured and unsecured creditors have 22 been paid in full. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets after paying our secured and unsecured creditors to make any distribution to the holders of the common stock. Our stockholders do not have cumulative voting rights. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to accumulate their votes for the election of directors or otherwise. Accordingly, a plurality of holders of our outstanding common stock will be able to elect all of our directors. As of December 31, 2009, our directors and executive officers collectively and beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, approximately 1.3% of our outstanding common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation, Delaware law and certain of our contracts may have provisions that discourage corporate takeovers and could prevent stockholders from realizing a premium on their investment. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and certain of our contracts may discourage persons from considering unsolicited tender offers or other unilateral takeover proposals or require that such persons negotiate with our board of directors rather than pursue non-negotiated takeover attempts. These provisions may discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control. As a result, these provisions could have the effect of preventing stockholders from realizing a premium on their investment. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to set the rights, preferences and other designations, including voting rights of those shares, as the board of directors may determine. In addition, our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes a substantial number of shares of common stock in excess of the shares outstanding. These provisions may discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to stockholders for their common stock. Under our credit facility, a change in control is an event of default. Under the indenture governing our senior notes, upon the occurrence of a change in control, the holders of our senior notes will have the right, subject to certain conditions, to require us to repurchase their notes at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of the repurchase. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 