Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to current or historical fact, but address events or developments that we anticipate may occur in the future. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding our goals, beliefs, plans or current expectations, taking into account the information currently available to our management. When we use words such as “anticipate,” “intend,” “expect,” “believe,” “plan,” “may,” “should” or “would” or other words that convey uncertainty of future events or outcome, we are making forward-looking statements. Statements relating to future sales, earnings, operating performance, recapitalization and restructuring strategies, capital expenditures and sources and uses of cash, for example, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this report, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all other information contained in or incorporated by reference in this report and in our filings with the SEC. The risks described below and in our filings with the SEC are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or which we currently consider immaterial, also may adversely affect us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our business and financial condition could suffer if we are unable to fully execute our recapitalization plan and achieve our plan of operations. As discussed in more detail in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Recapitalization Plan, since February 2007, we have been engaged in a recapitalization plan designed to provide significant equity proceeds to Wolverine in preparation for upcoming maturities of Wolverine’s Senior Notes and other liquidity facilities in 2008 and 2009. As part of this plan, we have been pursuing a global refinancing transaction with respect to refinancing our Senior Notes and other liquidity facilities prior to their maturities. In light of market conditions which have negatively affected our ability to execute such a global refinancing strategy by the first quarter of 2008, we have taken certain actions to address the repayment of the 7.375% Senior Notes due in August 2008 while allowing Wolverine to continue to maintain adequate liquidity to conduct operations. As a result of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock equity investments, the proceeds from the rights offering, the sale of our STP business in Altoona, Pennsylvania, proceeds from our sale of 30% of the Shanghai operation and cash generated by operations primarily though working capital reductions, we have approximately $71.5 million of cash available as of March 20, 2008 to address this refinancing plan. In addition, we have successfully amended our receivables sale facility and our secured revolving credit facility to extend the maturity of these facilities to February 19, 2009 and April 28, 2009 respectively. And finally, Plainfield Special Situations Master Fund Limited (“Plainfield”) has refinanced $38.3 million of the 7.375% Senior Notes held by it, extending the maturity date to March 28, 2009. These actions are expected to provide sufficient funds both to pay off the balance of the 7.375% Senior Notes due in August 2008 and to fund business operating needs (including working capital needs, debt service obligations, capital expenditures and other cash requirements) pending the planned refinance of our remaining Senior Notes and liquidity facilities prior to their maturities in 2009. If we are unable to fully execute our 2008 operating plans or if we are not able to meet the conditions to access available amounts under our receivables sale facility and our secured revolving credit facility, it could significantly impact our ability to execute our plan to repay the 7.375% Senior Notes upon their maturity while continuing to maintain sufficient liquidity to support our current operations. Our ability to complete a global refinancing plan is subject to a number of conditions, some of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the current state of the U.S. financial markets, We are pursuing a global refinancing plan with respect to refinancing our Senior Notes, our secured revolving credit facility and our receivables sale facility prior to their maturities in 2009. However, there can be no assurance that current and future negotiations with financial institutions and current and future market credit conditions will result in the satisfactory refinancing of these credit facilities on terms acceptable to the Company. The inability to accomplish satisfactory refinancing plans to address these liquidity facilities in 2009 could have a substantial impact on our ongoing operations or, at a minimum, if the rates on the new facilities are significantly higher than the rates on the current facilities, the additional cost could negatively impact the funds available to support our operations. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may need additional financing which may be unavailable or costly. Our actual funding requirements with respect to our working capital needs, debt service obligations, capital expenditures and other cash requirements could vary materially from our current estimates. We base our financial projections on assumptions that we believe are reasonable but which contain significant uncertainties that could affect our business, our future performance and our liquidity. Our ability to achieve and sustain operating profitability will depend on many factors, including the price of copper and our ability to pass on cost increases in certain markets, our ability to convert certain customers to foreign sourced products on terms mutually acceptable and profitable to us and our customers and continued availability of sufficient amounts under our liquidity facilities to support the cyclicality of our business. In addition, our business, our future performance and our liquidity would be affected by general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general economic and political conditions, including the global economy and other future events. Consequently, we may have to raise additional funds, which may be costly, to operate our business and provide other needed capital, and we may be unable to do so on favorable terms or at all. If we were unable to raise such needed additional funds or could only do so on unfavorable terms, our operations could be adversely affected and we could have insufficient capital to meet our expenses and operate our business. If we are unable to renew or replace our current liquidity facilities as they expire or if we are unable to refinance the Senior Notes as they mature, our financial condition and ability to operate our business will be significantly affected. Our $35 million secured revolving credit facility and our $75 million receivables sale facility expire in February and April of 2009 respectively. On August 1, 2008, we must repay or refinance $88.5 million in aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 7.375% Senior Notes, on April 1, 2009, we must repay or refinance $99.4 million in aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 10.5% Senior Notes and on March 29, 2009 we must repay or refinance the $38.3 million of the notes Plainfield holds and agreed to refinance on March 20, 2008. As noted above, we have taken actions which we believe will provide sufficient funds to pay off the balance of the remaining 7.375% Senior Notes due in August 2008. We are pursuing a global refinancing plan with respect to refinancing our remaining Senior Notes, our secured revolving credit facility and our receivables sale facility prior to their maturities in 2009. However, there can be no assurance that current and future negotiations with financial institutions and current and future market credit conditions will result in the refinancing of these Senior Notes and liquidity facilities on acceptable terms prior to the applicable maturity dates. While we have been able to access the commercial bank financing markets in the past, due to our significant leverage, our financial condition and the debt incurrence limitation and other restrictions imposed by our indentures and other financing agreements, we may not be able to renew or replace our liquidity facilities upon their expiration on terms at least as favorable as the existing facilities, if at all. Similarly, we may not be able to access the capital markets to refinance our Senior Notes upon their maturity on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to access the capital and commercial bank credit markets, obtain additional equity capital, sell assets or otherwise restructure our liquidity facilities and Senior Notes in a timely manner and upon acceptable terms, our financial condition and ability to operate our business will be significantly affected and one possible outcome may be bankruptcy or insolvency. In addition, our senior management has spent, and will continue to spend, significant time managing these liquidity facilities and other planning issues, which diverts management’s attention from operational and other business concerns and could negatively affect our results of operations. If we are not able to meet the conditions in our receivables sale facility and our secured revolving credit facility, the counterparties to these facilities may restrict our access to available amounts thereunder. Currently, we view our receivables sale facility and our secured revolving credit facility as sources of liquidity. The agreements governing these liquidity facilities contain various conditions, including compliance with financial and other covenants and representations with which we must comply in order to access available amounts under the facilities. Because we would not have been in compliance with the minimum consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) covenants set forth in the relevant agreements in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2007, we amended these agreements to bring us into compliance with those requirements for the applicable periods. There can be no assurances that we will continue to be able to meet or comply with these conditions and there can be no assurances that we will be able to waive or amend the terms of our liquidity facilities, including financial covenants, should we not meet any conditions or other terms in the agreements. Our ability to comply with these requirements may be affected by events beyond our control. If we are not in compliance with the conditions, covenants and representations required for draw-downs under these facilities, and if we are unable to secure necessary waivers or other amendments from the counterparties, we will not have access to these facilities, which could significantly affect our ability to meet our expenses and operate our business. If we are unable to comply with the operating and financial covenants contained in the indentures for our outstanding Senior Notes and in our other liquidity facilities, which impose significant restrictions on our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and take certain corporate actions, we could face an acceleration of our debt. The indentures and other agreements governing our outstanding Senior Notes and the agreements governing our liquidity facilities contain a number of significant operating and financial covenants. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other things: • incur other indebtedness; 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • engage in transactions with affiliates; • create or incur liens to secure debt; • prepay or repurchase indebtedness; • make certain restricted payments; • enter into certain business combinations and asset sale transactions; and • make investments. These restrictions also significantly limit our ability to undertake future financings, secure additional or alternative liquidity, make needed capital expenditures, dispose of certain assets, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. In addition, the agreements governing our current liquidity facilities contain certain financial covenants and requirements, including a minimum consolidated EBITDA covenant, with which we must comply. Changes in economic or business conditions, results of operations or other factors could make us unable to comply with the covenants in effect at that time and cause us to default under any of those agreements. Because our current liquidity facilities and indentures and agreements governing our Senior Notes contain cross-default provisions, a default, if not waived by the relevant counterparties, could result in acceleration of our debt and other obligations under multiple agreements. Significant debt levels may limit our future ability to obtain additional financing and to pursue business opportunities. As of December 31, 2007 our total debt was $237.0 million. We are permitted under the agreements governing our liquidity facilities and the indentures and other agreements governing our outstanding Senior Notes to incur additional debt under certain limited circumstances. There are several important consequences of having significant debt levels, including the following: • a substantial portion of any cash generated from operating activities must be used to pay principal and interest and other fees on our debt and related obligations and may not be available for other purposes, thereby reducing the availability of such available cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be limited; • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate may be limited; • adverse economic or industry conditions are more likely to have a negative effect on our business; • we may be at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have relatively less indebtedness; • our ability to make acquisitions, develop new technologies and products and take advantage of significant business opportunities may be negatively affected; and • the need to use available cash from operating activities to service and pay our debt and for operating expenses may limit or impair our future ability to pay dividends, if any, on our common stock. Variable interest rates, or other variable liquidity costs, may increase substantially. The interest associated with our current liquidity facilities accrue at variable rates. As of March 20, 2008, we had no outstanding borrowings under our secured revolving credit facility and no amounts outstanding under our receivables sale facility. However, any future borrowings under the secured revolving credit facility and any future utilization of our receivables sale facility will accrue interest and other costs at certain market rates that vary over time. If interest rates increase, we may not have the ability to service the interest, fees and other costs of our liquidity facilities. Furthermore, if we were to default in our payments under our liquidity facilities, our rates would increase substantially. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our business is dependent upon the availability and price of raw materials, particularly copper. Significant disruptions in the supply of raw materials or continued periods of historically high copper prices could materially adversely affect our operating results. Our profitability generally depends upon the gross margins of our products and the overall supply of copper, silver and other raw materials. Average monthly COMEX copper prices in 2007 increased from a low of $2.58 per pound in January to a high of $3.62 per pound in July. Recently, in February 2008, copper prices have exceeded $3.80 per pound. Average monthly silver prices in 2007 increased from $12.82 per troy ounce in January to a high of $14.77 per troy ounce in November. In February 2008, the price increased further to $17.97 per troy ounce. We believe this volatility in copper and silver prices is the result of several factors, including an imbalance between the global supply and demand for these commodities, exacerbated by Asian demand, and financial speculation in the commodity market especially in recent months. We base the selling prices of our products upon the associated raw materials costs to us either at the time of sale of the finished product, the time of purchase of the raw materials or as set by our purchases for forward delivery or hedging with futures and options contracts. However, we may not be able to pass all increases in copper costs and ancillary acquisition costs associated with the metal through to our customers. Although we are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of copper, it is impossible to predict future availability. Future growth in demand for copper may result in copper shortages and increased prices. Any future increase in the price of copper or the maintenance of the price at historically high rates, if not offset by sufficient product price increases, or the inability to obtain copper or other needed raw materials, would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, certain of our copper products compete with products made of alternative substances, such as polybutylene plastic and aluminum. Any sustained increase in the price of copper could diminish the relative attractiveness of our copper products, particularly our wholesale products and some commercial residential applications, in cases where such alternatives exist and thereby adversely affect our sales volumes and results of operations. Costs for energy and other natural resources may adversely affect our profitability. Changes in prices for natural gas and for other sources of fuel, electricity and gasoline have historically negatively affected the costs associated with our manufacturing operations. Certain of our operations are dependent upon natural gas to produce tubing. We have purchased on a forward basis all of our natural gas requirements for 2008. Accordingly, as these prices for natural gas are locked in, we will not be able to take advantage of any decrease in spot prices for natural gas. Significant increases for other sources of fuel, electricity, and gasoline would further increase our operating costs and have a material negative effect on our gross profit. Although we try to pass along increased costs in the form of price increases to our customers, we may be unsuccessful in doing so for competitive reasons, and even when successful, the timing of such price increases may lag behind our incurrence of higher costs. Our customers operate in industries that are subject to cyclical and seasonal demand and that are affected by other global economic and regulatory conditions, which can adversely affect our sales volumes and profitability. Our business is affected by changes in demand in our customers’ markets as well as by global economic conditions that affect our customers’ operations. Any significant downturn in our customers’ businesses could result in a reduction in demand for our products and could reduce our revenue. Demand for our products, particularly our wholesale products, is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in general economic conditions that affect our customers’ markets and that are beyond our control. These conditions include, among other things, the level of economic growth, employment levels, financing availability, interest rates, consumer confidence, housing demand and construction activity. In addition, demand in certain of the industries to which we sell our products, including the residential air conditioning industry, and to a lesser extent, the commercial air conditioning industry, is seasonal. Our sales to the residential air conditioning industry are generally greater in the first half of the year and lower in the second half of the year due to our customers’ increase of inventory in anticipation of annual air conditioning sales and housing starts. We face significant competition in many cases from competitors that have manufacturing and financial resources greater than ours. We face significant competition in each of our product lines. We have numerous competitors, some of which are larger than us and have greater financial resources. We may not be able to compete successfully, and the competition may have a negative affect on our business, operating results or financial condition by reducing volume of products sold and/or selling prices and accordingly, reducing revenues and profits and depleting capital. Minimal product differentiation among competitors in our wholesale products line creates a pricing structure where customers differentiate between products almost exclusively on price. In these product areas, certain of our competitors have significantly larger market shares than us and tend to be the industry pricing leaders. If our competitors in these product lines were to significantly reduce prices, our unit sales and profit margins could be reduced. We currently face limited competition for certain of our 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements higher value-added commercial products that have higher profit margins. If our existing competitors expand operations in these product categories or if new competitors enter these product lines, our sales of these higher margin products could fall and our profitability could be reduced or eliminated. For certain of our higher value-added commercial products, which have higher profit margins, we compete primarily on the basis of technological advantages of these products. Technological improvements by competitors could reduce our advantage in these product lines and thereby reduce our revenue. We could also be adversely affected if new technologies emerge in the air conditioning, refrigeration or other consumer industries that reduce or eliminate the need for copper and copper alloy tube, fabricated products and metal joining products. New technologies that may emerge in the air conditioning, refrigeration or other consumer industries may reduce or eliminate the need for copper and other metal joining products we manufacture. We could be adversely affected if new technologies emerge in the air conditioning, refrigeration or other consumer industries that reduce or eliminate the need for copper and copper alloy tube, fabricated copper components and metal joining products. Certain of our products, such as plumbing tube, compete with products made of alternative materials, such as polybutylene plastic. Aluminum is also a substitute product in residential air conditioning units. Increases in the price of copper, or sustained high copper prices could decrease the relative attractiveness of copper products in cases where alternatives exist and are allowable by local law or code, thereby adversely affecting our business, operating results or financial condition. Increasing competition from Asian competitors who sell both within China and for export to other parts of the world may negatively impact our business and adversely affect our revenue and operating results. We face increased competition for the products we manufacture within China. Due to our relative market share for sales within China, we are subject to continuing competitive pricing pressures in this country. Further, as Asian competitors continue to increase their exports into the U.S. and other markets we serve world-wide, our ability to maintain price, market share and operating margins may be negatively impacted. The loss of any of our major customers could adversely affect our revenues and financial health. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 60.2%, 51.2% and 49.7%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. If we were to lose any of our relationships with these customers, our revenues and results of operations and financial condition might suffer. Risks associated with the operation of our manufacturing facilities may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our revenues are dependent on the continued operation of our various manufacturing facilities. The operation of manufacturing plants involves many risks including: • the breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment; • inclement weather and natural disasters; • the need to comply with directives of, and maintain all necessary permits from, governmental agencies; • raw material supply disruptions; • labor force shortages, work stoppages, or other labor difficulties; and • transportation disruptions. The occurrence of material operational problems, including but not limited to the above events, may have an adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility or to us as a whole. Our decision to close two of our manufacturing facilities will result in certain charges and may cause disruption. In December 2007, we closed our manufacturing facilities located in Decatur, Alabama and Booneville, Mississippi. We estimate that we will incur a total of approximately $67.1 million in closure expenses. Included in the $67.1 million is a non-cash pre-tax impairment charge of $50.8 million recorded during the fourth quarter of 2007 to write down the carrying amounts of assets to be sold to estimated fair market value. The actual sale price of the plants’ assets that are not redeployed for use at other locations or sold on the open market may vary from our estimates and could cause this charge to differ. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may engage in divestitures that could have a negative impact on our operations and financial results and the availability under certain of our current liquidity facilities. Although the indentures and other agreements governing our Senior Notes and the agreements governing our current liquidity facilities impose certain limitations on our ability to sell assets, we may seek waivers of these restrictions under such indentures and agreements to engage in certain divestitures or we may otherwise engage in certain permitted divestitures that could have a negative impact on our operations and financial results, and could, for example, decrease the assets included in our secured revolving credit facility borrowing base. A future divestiture of one or more of our plants or operations may require a restructuring of operations and could divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Currency fluctuations may place us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our revenue. Our manufacturing costs, profit margins and competitive position may be affected by the strength of the currencies in countries where our products are manufactured relative to the strength of the currencies in the countries where our products are sold. Although we have closed our Montreal facility, we continue to maintain manufacturing operations in Canada which in the past has supplied numerous U.S. customers. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, our Canadian operations accounted for 16.7% of consolidated net sales. If the Canadian dollar continues to strengthen materially against the U.S. dollar, our Canadian operations could be subject to increased competition from U.S. suppliers, which could reduce our revenue from operations and affect our results of operations and financial position. Our international operations expose us to various risks that other companies that are not global may not face. We have manufacturing and/or sales operations in Canada, China, The Netherlands, Portugal and Mexico. In 2007, foreign operations represented 26% of our consolidated net sales. We are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business across national boundaries, any one of which could adversely impact our business. In addition to currency fluctuations, these risks include: • economic downturns; • changes in or interpretations of local law, governmental policy or regulation, particularly in countries with developing legal systems such as China; • restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of the country; • import and export duties and quotas and other trade barriers; • domestic and foreign customs and tariffs; • varying tax systems; • different regimes controlling the protection of our intellectual property; • political unrest; • military outbreaks; • government instability; • nationalization of foreign assets; and • government protectionism. We intend to continue to evaluate opportunities to establish new manufacturing and sales operations outside the U.S. One or more of the foregoing factors could impair our current or future international operations and, as a result, harm our overall business. We, and some of our major customers, have unionized employees and could be adversely affected by labor disputes. Some of our employees and some employees of our major customers are unionized. At December 31, 2007, approximately 11% of our employees were unionized. Our unionized employees are hourly workers located at our Monterrey, Mexico facility, where technical copper and copper alloy tube and fabricated products are manufactured. The collective bargaining agreement with the employees at our Monterrey, 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Mexico facility expired on January 31, 2008. On February 1, 2008 the collective bargaining agreement was renewed for one year. Labor disputes by any of our employees, or our customers’ employees, could have a significant negative effect on our financial results and operations. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our ability to operate effectively may be impaired. Our ability to operate our business and implement strategies depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. Our management philosophy of cost-control means that we operate with a limited number of corporate personnel, and our commitment to a less centralized organization also places greater emphasis on the strength of local management. Our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key employees or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel, domestically or abroad, could have a material adverse effect on our business or business prospects. We could incur significant costs, including remediation costs, as a result of complying with environmental laws. Our facilities and operations are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations imposed by federal, state, provincial and local authorities in the U.S., Canada, China, The Netherlands, Portugal and Mexico relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety, including those governing emissions to air, discharges to waterways and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous materials. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines or sanctions, and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. We have incurred, and in the future may continue to incur, liability under environmental statutes and regulations with respect to the contamination detected at sites owned or operated by us (including contamination caused by prior owners and operators of such sites, abutters or other persons) and the sites at which we disposed hazardous substances. We have established an accrual with respect to certain presently estimated environmental remediation costs. As of December 31, 2007, this accrual is $21.5 million, of which $12.3 million was established for environmental remediation costs associated with the closure of our Montreal, Quebec facility, $8.6 was established for environmental remediation costs associated with the closure of the Decatur, Alabama facility and $0.6 million was for environmental costs at our Ardmore, Tennessee facility. This accrual may not be adequate to cover the ultimate costs of these liabilities (or ones that may be identified in the future) and the discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations could result in significant costs. In addition, future regulations and changes in the text or interpretation of existing regulations may subject us to increasingly stringent standards. Compliance with such requirements may make it necessary, at costs which may be substantial, for us to retrofit existing facilities with additional pollution-control equipment, undertake new measures in connection with the storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of by-products and wastes or take other steps. Our competitive advantage could be reduced if our intellectual property becomes known by our competitors, or if technological changes reduce our customers’ need for our products. We own a number of trademarks and patents (in the U.S. and other jurisdictions) on our products and related manufacturing processes and we have granted licenses with respect to some of our trademarks and patents. In addition to trademark and patent protection, we rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technological advances that we seek to protect. If our intellectual property is not properly protected or is independently discovered by others or otherwise becomes known, our protection against competitive products could be diminished. Because we compete primarily on the basis of these technical advantages of our commercial products, technical improvements by our competitors could reduce our competitive advantage in these product lines and thereby reduce our unit sales and profits per unit. In addition, the development of new technologies in the air conditioning, refrigeration or other consumer industries, including technologies developed in response to the elimination of CFCs and certain refrigerants, could reduce or eliminate the need for copper and copper alloy based products and thereby reduce our sales volumes and have a negative impact on our operating results. If our internal computer network and applications suffer disruptions or fail to operate as designed, our operations will be disrupted and our business may be harmed. We rely on network infrastructure and enterprise applications, and internal technology systems for our operational, marketing support and sales, and product development activities. The hardware and software systems related to such activities are subject to damage from earthquakes, floods, lightning, tornadoes, fire, power loss, telecommunication failures and other similar events. They are also subject to acts such as computer viruses, physical or electronic vandalism or other similar disruptions that could cause system interruptions and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from fulfilling our customers’ orders. We have developed disaster recovery plans and backup systems to reduce the potentially adverse effects of such events, but there are no assurances such plans and systems would be sufficient. Any event that causes failures or interruption in our hardware or software systems could result in disruption of our business operations, have a negative impact on our operating results, and damage our reputation. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have experienced net losses in recent periods and we may experience net losses in the future. We have experienced net losses from operations in the past, including a net loss of approximately $97.0 million in 2007 and approximately $79.2 million in 2006. While a significant portion of these losses were associated with non-cash impairment charges, competitive price pressure, cyclical demand for our products and an economic downturn in the industries we serve, among other factors, these factors can have a material adverse effect on the prices we receive for our products, unit sales volumes and gross profit. These factors may in turn reduce our Company’s cash flow and operating results in future periods. If we are unable to generate positive cash flow in the future, we may not be able to make payments on our debt obligations. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • our ability to meet our liquidity needs; • our ability to redeem our 7.375% Senior Notes maturing in August 2008; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; • failure to meet analysts’ or our own revenue or earnings estimates; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • the impact of the risks discussed herein and our ability to react effectively to those risks; • limited trading volume of our common stock; • a change in technology that may add to manufacturing costs; • actions by institutional stockholders; • general market conditions; and • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Limited trading volume of our common stock may contribute to its price volatility. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and Pink Sheets. Prior to January 4, 2007, our common stock was traded on the New York Stock Exchange. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the average daily trading volume of our common stock as reported by Bloomberg L.P. was approximately 122,511 shares. From January 3, 2008 through March 5, 2008 the average daily trading volume of our common stock as reported by Bloomberg L.P. was approximately 134,427 shares. It is uncertain whether a more active trading market in our common stock will develop or if we will be re-listed on the New York Stock Exchange or any other securities exchange. Also, many investment banks no longer find it profitable to provide securities research on small-cap and mid-cap companies. Further, many investment banks do not encourage trading on the OTC Bulletin Board. If analysts were to discontinue coverage of our common stock, our trading volume may be further reduced. As a result, relatively small trades may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, which could increase the volatility and depress the price of our stock. We cannot assure you that you will be able to sell such common stock at a particular time or that the prices that you receive when you sell will be favorable. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Future issuances of our equity securities, or sales of our securities by stockholders in the public market, may cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our ability to raise capital in the equity markets. In the future, we may issue additional shares of our common stock in public or private offerings, perhaps in significant quantities. Also, shares of our common stock are available for future sales pursuant to stock options and/or restricted stock that we have granted to certain employees and directors, and in the future we may grant additional stock options and/or restricted stock to our employees and directors. Our preferred stock investors currently own 54,494 shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and 10,000 shares of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, which is convertible into common stock, and we have agreed to register shares of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and shares of the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock for resale as permitted by the relevant securities laws. We may issue significantly more shares to these investors in the future. The sale of a substantial amount of shares by these investors, or the sale of substantial amounts of common stock by other stockholders, could significantly affect the market prices for shares of our common stock and ultimately could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings. Our preferred stock investors have the ability to exert significant influence over our affairs and may have interests that differ from those of our other stockholders. Holders of shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, vote with the holders of our common stock on an as-converted basis on all matters. Although the preferred stock investors currently hold shares representing approximately 59.1% of the total actual voting power of all our voting securities on an as-converted basis, their voting power is limited to 49% of the total voting power while any of our 10.5% Senior Notes remain outstanding. However, during this period the preferred stock investors have a contractual right to designate a majority of our board of directors. With their majority representation on our board of directors and through their voting power, these investors have the ability to exert significant control over our business, policies and affairs, and to substantially influence the outcome of any action requiring stockholder approval, including amendments to our charter or bylaws, mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets, or other extraordinary transactions. The interests of these investors with respect to such matters may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. Provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law and in other agreements, coupled with the preferred stock investors’ ownership of a significant amount of our voting power, may delay or prevent an acquisition of Wolverine that some stockholders may consider attractive. Our restated certificate of incorporation (including the certificates of designation setting the terms of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock), bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors and our preferred stockholders. These provisions include removal of directors only for cause and the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Although we believe these provisions provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, the preferred stock investors’ ownership of a significant amount of our voting power and their majority representation on our board of directors provides them with substantial influence over the transfer of control of Wolverine to any third party. It is possible that these investors may not pursue transactions that some stockholders consider attractive, or may pursue transactions that may not result in a premium upon a change of control. In addition, under the indenture governing our 10.5% Senior Notes, in the event a change in control occurs, we may be required to repurchase all of our outstanding 10.5% Senior Notes at 101% of their original aggregate principal amount plus accrued interest. A change in control, without an appropriate waiver or amendment, would also result in an event of default or amortization event under our liquidity facilities. We will not pay any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and may not be able to pay cash dividends on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock. We do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any future earnings to fund operations, debt service requirements and other corporate needs, and to fund required dividend payments on our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock. The terms of our preferred stock prohibit us from paying cash dividends on our common stock while such preferred stock is outstanding. In addition, our current liquidity facilities and our 10.5% Senior Note indenture limit our ability to declare and pay dividends on our capital stock. We are required to pay approximately $1.4 million in regular cash dividends on the 64,494 shares of currently outstanding preferred stock each quarter or such greater amount per quarter commensurate with any increase in the number of outstanding preferred shares, subject to increase if certain equity conditions are not met. However, the terms of the preferred stock permit us to defer dividend payments, which will accrue at a higher rate, to the extent that we do not have cash or financing available to us to cover the full quarterly dividend amount. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, under Delaware law, cash dividends on capital stock may only be paid from “surplus” or, if there is no surplus, from the corporation’s net profits for the then current or preceding fiscal year. Unless we continue to operate profitably, our ability to pay cash dividends on the preferred stock would require the availability of adequate surplus, which is defined as the excess, if any, of our net assets (total assets less total liabilities) over our capital. Further, even if adequate surplus is available to pay cash dividends on the preferred stock, we may not have sufficient cash to pay such dividends. Moreover, our 10.5% Senior Note indenture limits our ability to make certain restricted payments, including cash dividends on our capital stock, unless certain tests are met, including an interest coverage ratio test that compares our earnings to our interest expense or unless the dividends meet an available exception from the covenant. One exception permits restricted payments aggregating up to $5 million since March 27, 2002. Although the entire $5 million basket is available for payment of the preferred stock dividends, it has been reduced by $3.0 in preferred stock dividends paid through December 31, 2007. Once this basket has been exhausted, if we are unable to meet these indenture requirements or defer dividend payments under the terms of the preferred stock, or if we are unable to obtain appropriate waivers under the indenture or refinance amounts outstanding under the indenture, we will be unable to pay dividends on the preferred stock without causing a default and possible acceleration of outstanding amounts under that indenture. Due to cross-default provisions, such a default could result in defaults under our other financing agreements. Our net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards may expire unutilized, which could prevent us from offsetting future taxable income. As of December 31, 2007, we had U.S. federal NOL carryforwards of $40.8 million and Canadian federal NOL carryforwards of $29.3 million, which expire at various times beginning in 2008 through 2027. These NOL carryforwards are subject to a valuation allowance due to the uncertain nature of the realization of the NOL carryforwards. In addition, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes certain restrictions on the utilization of NOL carryforwards and other tax attributes after an ownership change, as defined in Section 382. On February 16, 2007 we had a Section 382 ownership change which will significantly limit the possible utilization of NOL carryforwards in the future. Accordingly, in the event we would otherwise be able to utilize the NOL carryforwards to offset taxable income generated in this or future tax years, we will be subject to an annual limitation of approximately $1.3 million of these NOL for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We may not be able to achieve sufficient profitability to utilize some or all of our NOL carryforwards prior to their expiration. The dividends we pay on our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock will continue to increase if we are unable to meet, or if the holders of the preferred stock do not waive, certain registration requirements. Under the terms of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, if the shares of common stock underlying the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are not registered for resale under the federal securities laws following June 16, 2007, the dividend rate we pay on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock increases for each quarterly dividend period this condition remains unsatisfied. The Series A preferred stockholders provided a conditional waiver to the dividend rate increase occurring on June 30, 2007 provided that this condition was satisfied on or prior to that date. However, we have not yet satisfied this requirement and the dividend rate on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock was adjusted to 8.5% beginning with the quarter ended July 31, 2007. The dividend rate will be subject to further adjustment until this condition is satisfied. Currently, the holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock have agreed to retain the dividend rate at 8.5% through July 1, 2008, but we can give no assurance that the Series A preferred stockholders will provide a further waiver of these dividend adjustment provisions beyond that date. The initial dividend rate on the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock issued on March 20, 2008 is 8.5% and is subject to similar registration requirements as the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. The dividend rate on the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock will increase if the shares of common stock underlying the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock are not registered for resale by June 30, 2007. If we are unable to either satisfy these conditions or successfully negotiate further waivers, our dividend rate could ultimately rise to a maximum of 10% for the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, and 10.5% for the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock. The actual costs and benefits of our plan to realign the manufacturing facilities which produced certain products made and sold in the U.S. wholesale market resulting in the closure of our Decatur, Alabama and Booneville, Mississippi facilities may differ from our expectations. On November 6, 2007, we announced plans to realign the manufacturing facilities which produced certain products made and sold in the U.S. wholesale market resulting in the closure of our Decatur, Alabama and Booneville, Mississippi facilities by the end of 2007. In connection with this decision, we also announced that we will eliminate approximately 40% of our corporate, general and administrative positions. We recorded an impairment and restructuring charge totaling $67.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2007 as a result of these actions. We expect to generate approximately $26 million in cash from the realization of net working capital after related cash costs to be incurred in 2008. Our estimates with respect to the charges, expenses, cost savings and cash generation relating to these actions may be further refined depending on subsequent developments or additional analysis, and actual charges, expenses, cost savings and cash generation. In addition, there are a number of risks and uncertainties with respect to these actions that could cause actual results to differ significantly from our expectations, and could otherwise have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and prospects, including unanticipated delays, difficulties or costs in closing the facilities; delays or difficulties in achieving and sustaining anticipated operating efficiencies, cost savings and cash generation from these actions; the effect of restructuring on our liquidity position, including the effect of any asset liquidations on available amounts under our liquidity facilities; the amounts and timing of satisfaction of liabilities associated with the termination of operations at the facilities; and the effect of the restructuring initiatives on competitiveness and customer demand, including the ability of our reorganized operations to meet customer expectations. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The announcement to realign the manufacturing facilities which produced certain products made and sold in the U.S. wholesale market resulting in the closure of our Decatur, Alabama and Booneville, Mississippi facilities could have an adverse effect on our relationships with our employees, suppliers and customers. Wolverine has announced plans to discontinue the manufacturing in the United States of plumbing tube and certain industrial tube products and the closure of two of our manufacturing facilities. The Company will outsource some of its raw materials from third parties. These actions may result in interruption of raw material supply or slow downs and thus could negatively impact our ability to serve our customers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 