Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to current or historical fact, but address events or developments that we anticipate may occur in the future. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding our goals, beliefs, plans, or current expectations, taking into account the information currently available to our management. When we use words such as “anticipate,” “intend,” “expect,” “believe,” “plan,” “may,” “should,” or “would” or other words that convey uncertainty of future events or outcome, we are making forward-looking statements. Statements relating to future sales, earnings, operating performance, recapitalization and restructuring strategies, capital expenditures, and sources and uses of cash, for example, are forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth, trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in this report. The forward-looking statements contained in this report and other written and oral forward-looking statements made by us from time to time are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed. These forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this report, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all other information contained in or incorporated by reference in this report and in our filings with the SEC. The risks described below and in our filings with the SEC are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or which we currently consider immaterial, also may adversely affect us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may need additional financing which may be unavailable or costly. Our actual funding requirements with respect to our working capital needs, debt service obligations, capital expenditures, and other cash requirements could vary materially from our current estimates. We base our financial projections on assumptions that we believe are reasonable but which contain significant uncertainties that could affect our business, our future performance, and our liquidity. Our ability to achieve and sustain operating profitability will depend on many factors, including the price of copper and our ability to pass on cost increases in certain markets, our ability to convert certain customers to foreign-sourced products on terms mutually acceptable and profitable to us and our customers. In addition, our business, our future performance and our liquidity would be affected by general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general economic and political conditions, including the global economy and other future events. Consequently, we may have to raise additional funds, which may be costly, to operate our business and provide other needed capital, and we may be unable to do so on favorable terms or at all. If we were unable to raise such needed additional funds or could only do so on unfavorable terms, our operations could be adversely affected and we could have insufficient capital to meet our expenses and operate our business. Significant debt levels may limit our future ability to obtain additional financing and to pursue business opportunities. On February 26, 2009, we announced the commencement of an Exchange Offer to each of the holders of our 10.5% Senior Exchange Notes and our 10.5% Senior Notes due March 28, 2009 and April 1, 2009, respectively, to exchange these notes for new Senior Secured Notes in order to refinance those maturities. The Exchange Offer was successfully consummated on April 28, 2009. See Note 33, Subsequent Events, in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Exchange Offer and a description of the new Senior Secured Notes. These actions are expected to provide sufficient funds both to pay off the balance of the note holders that did not tender their notes and are expected to fund business operating needs (including working capital needs, debt service obligations, capital expenditures, and other cash requirements). Subsequent to the completion of the Exchange Offer, our total debt was $121.6 million. We are permitted under the indenture governing our outstanding Senior Notes to incur additional debt only under certain limited circumstances. There are several important consequences of having significant debt levels, including the following: • a substantial portion of any cash generated from proceeds from asset sales must be used to pay principal and interest and other fees on our debt and related obligations and may not be available for other purposes, thereby reducing the availability of such available cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, and other general corporate purposes; • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or other purposes may be limited; • adverse economic or industry conditions are more likely to have a negative effect on our business; • we may be at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have relatively less indebtedness; • our ability to make acquisitions, develop new technologies and products, and take advantage of significant business opportunities may be negatively affected; and 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • the need to use available cash from operating activities to service and pay our debt and for operating expenses may limit or impair our future ability to pay dividends, if any, on our common stock. The interest rate of the new Senior Secured Notes may increase if certain requirements are not met. We will pay interest on the new Senior Secured Notes issued pursuant to the Exchange Offer at 15% per annum until maturity, of which 10% is payable in cash and 5% is payable by issuing additional Senior Secured Notes, or PIK Notes. However, (a) if the outstanding principal amount of Senior Secured Notes at the close of business on March 31, 2010 exceeds $90 million, the interest rate will increase to 16%, of which 10% will be payable in cash and 6% will be payable in PIK Notes, and (b) if the outstanding principal amount of Senior Secured Notes at the close of business on March 31, 2011 exceeds $60 million, the interest rate will increase to 17%, of which 10% will be payable in cash and 7% will be payable in PIK Notes. Consequently, we may be required to pay additional interest expense in the event that we are not able to reduce the principal amount of the Senior Secured Notes below $90 million and $60 million as of March 31, 2010 and March 31, 2011, respectively. Our preferred stock investors have the ability to exert significant influence over our affairs and may have interests that differ from those of our other stockholders. Holders of shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, vote with the holders of our common stock on an as-converted basis on all matters. The preferred stock investors currently hold shares representing approximately 59% of the total actual voting power of all our voting securities on an as-converted basis. As a result of the recent refinancing and termination of certain provisions in the Voting Agreement among the Company, Alpine, and Plainfield Fund, these holders’ voting power is no longer limited to 49% of the total voting power. Consequently, these investors have the ability to exert significant control over our business, policies and affairs, and to substantially influence the outcome of any action requiring stockholder approval, including amendments to our charter or bylaws, mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets, or other extraordinary transactions. The interests of these investors with respect to such matters may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. Our business is dependent upon the availability and price of raw materials, particularly copper. Significant disruptions in the supply of raw materials or continued periods of historically high copper prices could materially adversely affect our operating results. Our profitability generally depends upon the gross margins of our products and the overall supply of copper, silver, and other raw materials. Average monthly COMEX copper prices in 2008 ranged from a low of $1.25 per pound in December to a high of $4.08 per pound in July. Average monthly silver prices in 2008 decreased from a high of $20.8 per troy ounce in March to a low of $8.95 per troy ounce in November. We believe this volatility in copper and silver prices is the result of several factors, including an imbalance between the global supply and demand for these commodities, exacerbated by Asian demand and financial speculation in the commodity markets. We base the selling prices of our products upon the associated raw material costs to us either at the time of sale of the finished product, the time of purchase of the raw materials, or as set by our purchases for forward delivery or hedging with futures and options contracts. However, we may not be able to pass all increases in copper costs and ancillary acquisition costs associated with the metal through to our customers. Although we are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of copper, it is impossible to predict future availability. Future growth in demand for copper may result in copper shortages and increased prices. Any future significant increase in the price of copper, if not offset by sufficient product price increases, or the inability to obtain copper or other needed raw materials, would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, during the past several years, copper scrap has been tight in supply at various times due primarily to the Asian markets buying most of it on the market. Scrap generation in the United States is significantly lower due to: (1) Lower industrial production, therefore lower scrap generation and (2) Lower residential/commercial construction, therefore lower scrap generation. We are able to use a mix of copper scrap and copper cathode in our production process. The copper scrap is usually priced at a discount to cathode, giving us an advantage when using the scrap. If copper scrap becomes short in supply and the price increases, we lose this advantage. 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The Company’s frozen defined benefit plan is significantly underfunded due to the significant reduction in asset values incurred in 2008. This could result in increased funding in future years which could have a significant impact on the Company’s liquidity. The Company maintains a frozen, defined benefit pension plan subject to Title IV of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”) and the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). As a result of the current economic environment and the large losses suffered in the U.S. financial markets, the plan’s investments have suffered a significant reduction in value, and the plan is significantly underfunded as of December 31, 2008. This increase in underfunding resulted in the recording an additional $39.0 million of long-term pension liabilities in the Company’s financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 in accordance with SFAS No. 158, Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans and could result in additional significant contributions to the plan in 2010 and 2011 that are higher than the contributions that were made in 2007 and 2008 and that are anticipated to be made in 2009. Additionally, if the performance of the assets in the plan does not meet assumptions, or if other actuarial losses are generated, contributions to the plan in the future could be higher than we expect. Our customers operate in industries that are subject to cyclical and seasonal demand and that are affected by other global economic and regulatory conditions, which can adversely affect our sales volumes and profitability. Our business is affected by changes in demand in our customers’ markets as well as by global economic conditions that affects our customers’ operations. Any significant downturn in our customers’ businesses could result in a reduction in demand for our products and could reduce our revenue. Demand in certain of the industries to which we sell our products, including the residential air conditioning industry, and to a lesser extent, the commercial air conditioning industry, is seasonal. Our sales to the residential air conditioning industry are generally greater in the first half of the year and lower in the second half of the year due to our customers’ increase of inventory in anticipation of annual air conditioning sales and housing starts. Our failure to respond to rapid technological change or to introduce successful new products and technologies may result in reduced revenue or revenue growth. The process of developing or acquiring new products and technologies and enhancing existing products and technologies is complex, costly, and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share and results of operations. We must make long-term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property, and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. After we develop a product, we must then accurately forecast volumes and configurations that meet customer requirements, manufacture appropriate volumes quickly and at low cost and develop cost-effective solutions, and train our sales force. Any delay in the development, production, marketing of, or training for new products or technologies could result in our not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. We face significant competition in many cases from competitors that have manufacturing and financial resources greater than ours. We face significant competition in each of our product lines. We have numerous competitors, some of which are larger than us and have greater financial resources. We may not be able to compete successfully, and the competition may have a negative effect on our business, operating results or financial condition by reducing volume of products sold and/or selling prices and accordingly, reducing revenues and profits and depleting capital. We currently face increasing competition for certain of our higher value-added commercial products that have higher profit margins. If our existing competitors expand operations in these product categories or if new competitors enter these product lines, our sales of these higher margin products could fall and our profitability could be reduced or eliminated. For certain of our higher value-added commercial products, which have higher profit margins, we compete primarily on the basis of technological advantages of these products. Technological improvements by competitors could reduce our advantage in these product lines and thereby reduce our revenue. New technologies that may emerge in the air conditioning, refrigeration, or other consumer industries may reduce or eliminate the need for copper and other metal joining products we manufacture. We could be adversely affected if new technologies emerge in the air conditioning, refrigeration, or other consumer industries that reduce or eliminate the need for copper and copper alloy tube, fabricated copper components, and metal joining products. Aluminum is also a substitute product in residential air conditioning units. Increases in the price of copper, or sustained high copper prices could decrease the relative attractiveness of copper products in cases where alternatives exist and are allowable by local law or code, thereby adversely affecting our business, operating results, or financial condition. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Increasing competition from Asian competitors who export to other parts of the world may negatively impact our business and adversely affect our revenue and operating results. We face increased competition from Asian competitors who continue to increase their exports into the U.S. and other markets we serve world-wide. Our ability to maintain price, market share, and operating margins may be negatively impacted. The loss of any of our major customers could adversely affect our revenues and financial health. In 2008 and 2007, our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 78.3% and 60.2%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. If we were to lose any of our relationships with these customers, our revenues and results of operations and financial condition might suffer. Risks associated with the operation of our manufacturing facilities may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our revenues are dependent on the continued operation of our various manufacturing facilities. The operation of manufacturing plants involves many risks including: • the breakdown, failure, or substandard performance of equipment; • inclement weather and natural disasters; • the need to comply with directives of, and maintain all necessary permits from, governmental agencies; • raw material supply disruptions; • labor force shortages, work stoppages, or other labor difficulties; and • transportation disruptions. The occurrence of material operational problems, including but not limited to the above events, may have an adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility or to us as a whole. Our international operations expose us to various risks that other companies that are not global may not face. We have manufacturing and/or sales operations in China, the Netherlands, Portugal, Mexico and Canada. In 2008, foreign operations represented 13.5% of our consolidated net sales. We are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business across national boundaries, any one of which could adversely impact our business. In addition to currency fluctuations, these risks include: • economic downturns; • changes in or interpretations of local law, governmental policy or regulation, particularly in countries with developing legal systems such as China; • restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of the country; • import and export duties and quotas and other trade barriers; • domestic and foreign customs and tariffs; • varying tax systems; • different regimes controlling the protection of our intellectual property; • political unrest; • military outbreaks; • government instability; • nationalization of foreign assets; and • government protectionism. We intend to continue to evaluate opportunities to establish new manufacturing and sales operations outside the U.S. One or more of the foregoing factors could impair our current or future international operations and, as a result, harm our overall business. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our ability to operate effectively may be impaired. Our ability to operate our business and implement strategies depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. Our management philosophy of cost-control means that we operate with a limited number of corporate personnel, and our commitment to a less centralized organization also places greater emphasis on the strength of local management. Our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key employees or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel, domestically or abroad, could have a material adverse effect on our business or business prospects. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We could incur significant costs, including remediation costs, as a result of complying with environmental laws. Our facilities and operations are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations imposed by federal, state, provincial, and local authorities in the U.S., China, The Netherlands, Portugal, Mexico and Canada relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety, including those governing emissions to air, discharges to waterways and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous materials. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines or sanctions, and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. We have incurred, and in the future may continue to incur, liability under environmental statutes and regulations with respect to the contamination detected at sites owned or operated by us (including contamination caused by prior owners and operators of such sites, abutters, or other persons) and the sites at which we disposed hazardous substances. We have established an accrual with respect to certain presently estimated environmental remediation costs. As of December 31, 2008, this accrual is $9.6 million, of which $8.6 was established for environmental remediation costs associated with the closure of the Decatur, Alabama facility and $1.0 million was for environmental costs at our Ardmore, Tennessee facility. This accrual may not be adequate to cover the ultimate costs of these liabilities (or ones that may be identified in the future) and the discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations could result in significant costs. In addition, future regulations and changes in the text or interpretation of existing regulations may subject us to increasingly stringent standards. Compliance with such requirements may make it necessary, at costs which may be substantial, for us to retrofit existing facilities with additional pollution-control equipment, undertake new measures in connection with the storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of by-products and wastes, or take other steps. Our competitive advantage could be reduced if our intellectual property becomes known by our competitors, or if technological changes reduce our customers’ need for our products. We own a number of trademarks and patents (in the U.S. and other jurisdictions) on our products and related manufacturing processes and we have granted licenses with respect to some of our trademarks and patents. In addition to trademark and patent protection, we rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technological advances that we seek to protect. If our intellectual property is not properly protected or is independently discovered by others or otherwise becomes known, our protection against competitive products could be diminished. Because we compete primarily on the basis of these technical advantages of our commercial products, technical improvements by our competitors could reduce our competitive advantage in these product lines and thereby reduce our unit sales and profits per unit. In addition, the development of new technologies in the air conditioning, refrigeration, or other consumer industries, including technologies developed in response to the elimination of CFCs and certain refrigerants, could reduce or eliminate the need for copper and copper alloy based products and thereby reduce our sales volumes and have a negative impact on our operating results. We have experienced net losses in recent periods and we may experience net losses in the future. We have experienced net losses from operations in the past, including a net loss of approximately $48.5 million in 2008 and approximately $98.2 million in 2007. While a significant portion of these losses were associated with non-cash impairment charges, other factors such as competitive price pressure, cyclical demand for our products, and a continued economic downturn in the global economy and the industries we serve, among other factors, could have a material adverse effect on the prices we receive for our products, unit sales volumes, and gross profit. These factors may in turn reduce our Company’s cash flow and operating results in future periods. If we are unable to generate positive cash flow in the future, we may not be able to make payments on our debt obligations. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • our ability to meet our liquidity needs; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • the impact of the risks discussed herein and our ability to react effectively to those risks; • limited trading volume of our common stock; • a change in technology that may add to manufacturing costs; 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • actions by institutional stockholders; • general market conditions; • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; • limited trading volume. The stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards may expire unutilized, which could prevent us from offsetting future taxable income. As of December 31, 2008, we have U.S. federal NOL carryforwards of approximately $65.2 million, which expire at various times beginning in 2009 through 2028. These NOL carryforwards are subject to a valuation allowance due to the uncertain nature of the realization of the NOL carryforwards. In addition, in 2007 the Company experienced an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Also, in 2008, the Company experienced ownership changes per Section 382 when Alpine invested $4.5 million in Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and $10.0 million in Series B Convertible Preferred Stock. This imposes certain restrictions on the utilization of NOL carryforwards and other tax attributes after an ownership change. Accordingly, in the event we would otherwise be able to utilize the NOL carryforwards to offset taxable income generated in this or future tax years, $25 million of the federal NOL will be subject to an annual limitation of approximately $1.3 million for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The remaining balance of the federal NOL is available without limitation. We may not be able to achieve sufficient profitability to utilize some or all of our NOL carryforwards prior to their expiration. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 