Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully read and consider the risks described below before deciding to invest in our securities. The occurrence of any such risks may materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In any such case, the trading price of our common stock and other securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. When determining whether to invest in our securities, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Risks Relating to the Bankruptcy Process and the Plan We have filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code and are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with Chapter 11 proceedings. Based on the Plan confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, our current shareholders will not receive any consideration upon the conclusion of the Chapter 11 proceedings. For the duration of our Chapter 11 proceedings, our operations, including our ability to execute our business plan, are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy. Risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 proceedings include the following: • our ability to consummate the transactions contemplated by the Plan; • the actions and decisions of our creditors and other third parties who have interests in our Chapter 11 proceedings that may be inconsistent with our plans; • our ability to obtain court approval with respect to motions in the Chapter 11 proceedings from time to time; • our ability to obtain and maintain normal terms with consultants, vendors and service providers; • business risks that affect our operations during the pendency of the Chapter 11 proceedings; • our ability to maintain contracts that are critical to our operations; and • risks associated with third parties seeking and obtaining court approval to appoint a Chapter 11 trustee or to convert such Bankruptcy to a Chapter 7 proceeding. These risks and uncertainties could affect our business and operations in various ways. For example, negative events associated with our Chapter 11 proceedings could adversely affect our revenues and our relationships with our customers, vendors and employees, which in turn could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Also, transactions outside the ordinary course of business are subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 proceedings, the ultimate impact of events that occur during these proceedings will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be accurately predicted or quantified. The parties’ obligations to close the Contribution Agreement transaction are subject to a number of conditions and those conditions may not be satisfied. If the transaction does not close, the Debtors will be required to seek an alternative restructuring of their obligations. There can be no assurance that the terms of any such alternative restructuring would be similar to or as favorable to the Debtors’ stakeholders as the terms proposed in the Plan. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the Contribution Agreement, Laramie could choose to breach its obligations under the Contribution Agreement, and would only be liable to the Debtors for a reverse break-up fee of $5,000,000, and would not be required to close the transaction contemplated by the Contribution Agreement. 12 Table of Contents The Plan, if consummated, will result in the cancellation of the shares held by our current shareholders. Even if the Plan is not consummated, it is likely that our bankruptcy proceedings will result in the cancellation of those shares without consideration. In certain instances, a Chapter 11 case may be converted to a case under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. If the Bankruptcy Court finds that it would be in the best interest of creditors and/or the Debtors, the Bankruptcy Court may convert our Chapter 11 bankruptcy case to a case under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. In such event, a Chapter 7 trustee would be appointed or elected to liquidate the Debtors’ assets for distribution in accordance with the priorities established by the Bankruptcy Code. The Debtors believe that liquidation under Chapter 7 would result in significantly smaller distributions being made to the Debtors’ creditors than those provided for in the Plan because of (i) the likelihood that the assets would have to be sold or otherwise disposed of in a disorderly fashion over a short period of time rather than reorganizing the Debtors’ businesses as a going concern; (ii) additional administrative expenses involved in the appointment of a Chapter 7 trustee; and (iii) additional expenses and claims, some of which would be entitled to priority, which would be generated during the liquidation and from the rejection of leases and other executory contracts in connection with a cessation of the operations. The Contribution Agreement may not achieve its intended results and may result in Piceance Energy assuming unanticipated liabilities and properties of lower value than originally contemplated. We have conducted environmental and title due diligence regarding the assets Laramie will contribute to Piceance Energy pursuant to the Contribution Agreement, but our diligence efforts may not discover all problems that may exist with respect to those assets. Environmental, title and other problems could reduce the value of the properties contributed to Piceance Energy, and, depending on the circumstances, we could have limited or no recourse to Laramie with respect to those problems. Piceance Energy would assume substantially all of the liabilities associated with the acquired Laramie assets, and Piceance Energy would be entitled to indemnification in connection with those liabilities in only limited circumstances and in limited amounts. We cannot assure that such potential remedies will be adequate for any liabilities incurred by Piceance Energy, and such liabilities could be significant. In addition, certain of the assets to be contributed to Piceance Energy are subject to consents to assign and preference rights. If Delta and Laramie cannot obtain all applicable consents or waivers, Piceance Energy may not be able to acquire certain properties as originally contemplated. Also, it is uncertain whether Delta’s and Laramie’s contributed properties and assets can be integrated in an efficient and effective manner. If the Plan transactions are consummated, Reorganized Delta will be dependent on the results of Piceance Energy. Following the consummation of the Plan, Reorganized Delta’s principal asset will be its 33.34% ownership interest in Piceance Energy. Reorganized Delta’s operating income will therefore depend heavily on the profitability of Piceance Energy and on the ability of Piceance Energy to make distributions to its owners, which will be severely limited by the terms of the Piceance Energy Credit Facility. See “Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a description of the Piceance Energy Credit Facility. In addition, Piceance Energy will face similar risk factors to those that face other natural gas exploration and production companies, including us, as described herein. All disclosures in this report regarding operational risks facing us will also be risk factors faced by Piceance Energy. In addition, Laramie will control most decisions affecting Piceance Energy’s operations; Reorganized Delta will have veto rights over decisions of Piceance Energy in only a limited number of areas. Finally, Piceance Energy will pay to Laramie a monthly fee of $650,000 to operate and manage its assets. This will further limit Piceance Energy’s ability to make distributions to us. Inadequate liquidity could materially and adversely affect our business operations in the future. If the Plan transactions are not consummated, we will not have sufficient liquidity to continue operations unless the maturity of the DIP Credit Facility is extended. See “Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a description of the DIP Credit Facility. If the Plan transactions are consummated, our liquidity will be constrained by the restrictions on Piceance Energy’s ability to distribute cash to us under the Piceance Energy Credit Facility, by our need to satisfy our obligations under the Exit Credit Facility, and by potential capital contributions required to be made by us to Piceance Energy. Regardless of whether the Plan is consummated, our liquidity will be further constrained by the currently low level of natural gas prices, which reduces our cash flow from operations. A lack of liquidity may have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition, and may make it impossible for us to satisfy our existing or future obligations. 13 Table of Contents Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our indebtedness, which would adversely affect our ability to operate as a going concern. We have, and will continue to have (whether or not the Plan is consummated), a significant amount of indebtedness. Our degree of leverage could have important consequences, including the following: • it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, further exploration, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; • a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • the debt service requirements of other indebtedness in the future could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; • borrowings may be at variable rates of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates; • it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • we are vulnerable in the present downturn in general economic conditions and in our business, and we will likely be unable to carry out capital spending and exploration activities in excess of those that are currently planned; and • we have recently been, and may from time to time be, out of compliance with covenants under our debt agreements, which may allow the lenders to accelerate the related debt and foreclose on assets securing that debt. We may incur additional debt, including secured indebtedness, or issue preferred stock in order to maintain adequate liquidity and develop our properties to the extent desired. A higher level of indebtedness and/or preferred stock would increase the risk that we may default on our obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations depends on our future performance. General economic conditions, natural gas and oil prices and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of securities or a refinancing of our debt include financial market conditions, the value of our assets and our performance at the time we need capital. If the Plan transactions are consummated, our largest shareholders will control the composition of our board of directors, and trading in our shares will be subject to limitations set forth in our amended Certificate of Incorporation. If the Plan transactions are consummated, our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws will be amended, our largest stockholders will enter into a Stockholder’s agreement and the collective effect of these changes will be to allow certain holders who currently hold Notes to appoint all or substantially all of the members of our board of directors for an indefinite period. Accordingly, other shareholders may be unable to influence the outcome of director elections. In addition, the amended Certificate of Incorporation will impose certain restrictions on trading in our shares. These trading restrictions are designed to preserve the potential benefit to us of certain tax attributes, but could also have the effect of limiting liquidity in the trading of our shares. Elimination of the trading restrictions or failure to comply with or properly implement such restrictions could cause us to lose our tax attributes which may increase our tax liability, possibly significantly. 14 Table of Contents Risks Related To Our Business And Industry Natural gas and oil prices are volatile. Lower prices have adversely affected our financial position, financial results, cash flows, access to capital and ability to grow. Our revenues, operating results, profitability and future rate of growth depend primarily upon the prices we receive for the natural gas and oil we sell. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. Historically, the markets for natural gas and oil have been volatile and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in natural gas and oil prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas and oil, market uncertainty and other factors that are beyond our control, including: • worldwide and domestic supplies of natural gas and oil; • weather conditions; • the level of consumer demand; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the proximity and capacity of natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; • the price and level of foreign imports; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • the nature and extent of regulation relating to carbon and other greenhouse gas emissions; • the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • political instability or armed conflict in oil-producing regions; and • overall domestic and global economic conditions. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future natural gas and oil price movements. Declines in natural gas and oil prices not only reduce revenue, but also reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that we can produce economically and, as a result, have had, and could in the future have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and reserves. Further, natural gas and oil prices do not move in tandem. Because approximately 79% of our reserves at December 31, 2011 were natural gas reserves, we are more affected by movements in natural gas prices. Following the completion of the transaction contemplated by the Contribution Agreement, Piceance Energy’s reserves (based on our and Laramie’s estimated reserves as of April 30, 2012) will be 72% natural gas. Natural gas prices have fallen to historic lows in recent periods. The current financial environment may have impacts on our business and financial condition that we cannot predict. The continued instability in the global financial system and related limitation on availability of credit may continue to have an impact on our business and our financial condition, and we may continue to face challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve. Our ability to access the capital markets has been restricted as a result of the economic downturn and related financial market conditions and may be restricted in the future when we would like, or need, to raise capital. The difficult financial environment may also limit the number of prospects for potential joint venture, asset monetization or other capital raising transactions that we may pursue in the future or reduce the values we are able to realize in those transactions, making these transactions uneconomic or difficult to consummate. The economic situation could also adversely affect the collectability of our trade receivables and cause our commodity hedging arrangements, if any, to be ineffective if our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations. Additionally, the current economic situation could lead to reduced demand for natural gas and oil, or lower prices for natural gas and oil, or both, which would have a negative impact on our revenues. 15 Table of Contents Information concerning our reserves is uncertain. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and cash flows from such reserves, including factors beyond our control. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of an estimate of quantities of oil and natural gas reserves, or of cash flows attributable to such reserves, is a function of the available data, assumptions regarding future oil and natural gas prices, availability and terms of financing, expenditures for future development and exploitation activities, and engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Reserves and future cash flows may also be subject to material downward or upward revisions based upon production history, development and exploitation activities, oil and natural gas prices and regulatory changes. Actual future production, revenue, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses, quantities of recoverable reserves and value of cash flows from those reserves may vary significantly from our assumptions and estimates. In addition, reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same data. Further, the difficult financing environment may inhibit our ability to finance development of our reserves in the future. The estimated quantities of proved reserves and the discounted present value of future net cash flows attributable to those reserves as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 included in our periodic reports filed with the SEC were prepared by our independent reserve engineers in accordance with the rules of the SEC, and are not intended to represent the fair market value of such reserves. As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted present value of future net cash flows from proved reserves is generally based on prices and costs as required by the SEC on the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. In addition, the 10% discount factor the SEC requires to be used to calculate discounted future net revenues for reporting purposes is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on the cost of capital in effect from time to time and risks associated with our business and the oil and gas industry in general. We may not be able to replace production with new reserves. Our reserves will decline as they are produced unless we acquire new properties with proved reserves or conduct successful development and exploration drilling activities. Our future oil and natural gas production is highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves that are economically feasible and developing existing proved reserves, which is in turn dependent on, among other things, the availability of capital to fund such acquisition and development activity. Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. We do not always encounter commercially productive reservoirs through our drilling operations. The new wells we drill or participate in may not be productive and we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in wells we drill or participate in. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil or natural gas is present or may be produced economically. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Our efforts will be unprofitable if we drill dry wells or wells that are productive but do not produce enough reserves to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: • increases in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs and equipment; • unexpected drilling conditions; • title problems; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions; and • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements. 16 Table of Contents If oil or natural gas prices decrease or exploration and development efforts are unsuccessful, we may be required to take further writedowns. In the past, we have been required to write down the carrying value of our oil and gas properties and other assets. There is a risk that we will be required to take additional writedowns in the future, which would reduce our earnings. A writedown could occur when oil and natural gas prices are low or if we have substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of development costs or deterioration in our exploration and development results. We account for our crude oil and natural gas exploration and development activities utilizing the successful efforts method of accounting. Under this method, costs of productive exploratory wells, development dry holes and productive wells and undeveloped leases are capitalized. Oil and gas lease acquisition costs are also capitalized. Exploratory drilling costs are initially capitalized, but charged to expense if and when the well is determined not to have found reserves in commercial quantities. If the carrying amount of our oil and gas properties exceeds the estimated undiscounted future net cash flows, we will adjust the carrying amount of the oil and gas properties to their estimated fair value. We review our oil and gas properties for impairment quarterly or whenever events and circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Once incurred, a writedown of oil and gas properties is not reversible at a later date even if gas or oil prices increase. Given the complexities associated with oil and gas reserve estimates and the history of price volatility in the oil and gas markets, events may arise that would require us to record an impairment of the recorded carrying values associated with our oil and gas properties. The exploration, development and operation of oil and gas properties involve substantial risks that may result in a total loss of investment. The business of exploring for and, to a lesser extent, developing and operating oil and gas properties involves a high degree of business and financial risk, and thus a substantial risk of investment loss that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Oil and gas drilling and production activities may be shortened, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • availability of capital; • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse changes in prices; • adverse weather conditions; • title problems; • shortages in experienced labor; and • increases in the cost, or shortages or delays in the delivery, of equipment. 17 Table of Contents We may drill wells that are unproductive or, although productive, do not produce oil and/or natural gas in economic quantities. Acquisition and completion decisions generally are based on subjective judgments and assumptions that are speculative. It is impossible to predict with certainty the production potential of a particular property or well. Furthermore, a successful completion of a well does not ensure a profitable return on the investment. A variety of geological, operational, or market-related factors, including, but not limited to, unusual or unexpected geological formations, pressures, equipment failures or accidents, fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering, pollution and other environmental risks, shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment, loss of circulation of drilling fluids or other conditions may substantially delay or prevent completion of any well or otherwise prevent a property or well from being profitable. A productive well may become uneconomic in the event water or other deleterious substances are encountered which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or natural gas from the well, or in the event of lower than expected commodity prices. In addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is contaminated with water or other deleterious substances. The marketability of our production depends mostly upon the availability, proximity and capacity of gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities, which are owned by third parties. The marketability of our production depends upon the availability, operation and capacity of gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities, which are owned by third parties. The unavailability or lack of capacity of these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. United States federal, state and foreign regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, damage to or destruction of pipelines, general economic conditions and changes in supply and demand could adversely affect our ability to produce and market oil and natural gas. The availability of markets and the volatility of product prices are beyond our control and represent a significant risk. Prices may be affected by local and regional factors. The prices to be received for our natural gas production will be determined to a significant extent by factors affecting the local and regional supply of and demand for natural gas, including the adequacy of the pipeline and processing infrastructure in the region to process, and transport, our production and that of other producers. Those factors result in basis differentials between the published indices generally used to establish the price received for regional natural gas production and the actual (frequently lower) price we receive for our production. Our industry experiences numerous operating hazards that could result in substantial losses. The exploration, development and operation of oil and gas properties involve a variety of operating risks including the risk of fire, explosions, blowouts, cratering, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or vandalism, and environmental hazards, including oil spills, gas leaks, pipeline ruptures or discharges of toxic gases. These industry operating risks can result in injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties, and suspension of operations which could result in substantial losses. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above. Such insurance may not be adequate to cover losses or liabilities. Also, we cannot predict the continued availability of insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase. Terrorist attacks and certain potential natural disasters may change our ability to obtain adequate insurance coverage. The occurrence of a significant event that is not fully insured or indemnified against could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operations. 18 Table of Contents We may be unable to compete effectively with larger companies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The oil and natural gas industry is intensely competitive, and we compete with other companies that have greater resources than us. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Many of our larger competitors not only explore for and produce oil and natural gas, but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects or define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial resources permit. In addition, these companies may have a greater ability to continue exploration and development activities during periods of low oil and natural gas market prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. Our inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We may not receive payment for a portion of our future production. Our revenues are derived principally from uncollateralized sales to customers in the oil and gas industry. The concentration of credit risk in a single industry affects our overall exposure to credit risk because customers may be similarly affected by changes in economic and other conditions. Although we have not been directly affected, we are aware that some refiners have filed for bankruptcy protection, which has caused the affected producers to not receive payment for the production that was delivered. If economic conditions deteriorate, it is likely that additional, similar situations will occur which will expose us to added risk of not being paid for oil or gas that we deliver. We do not attempt to obtain credit protections such as letters of credit, guarantees or prepayments from our purchasers. We are unable to predict what impact the financial difficulties of any of our purchasers may have on our future results of operations and liquidity. We have no long-term contracts to sell oil and gas. We do not have any long-term supply or similar agreements with governments or other authorities or entities for which we act as a producer. We are therefore dependent upon our ability to sell oil and gas at the prevailing wellhead market price. There can be no assurance that purchasers will be available or that the prices they are willing to pay will remain stable. We may incur substantial costs to comply with the various federal, state and local laws and regulations that affect our oil and gas operations. We are affected significantly by a substantial amount of governmental regulations that increase costs related to the drilling of wells and the transportation and processing of oil and gas. It is possible that the number and extent of these regulations, and the costs to comply with them, will increase significantly in the future. In Colorado, for example, significant new governmental regulations have been adopted that are primarily driven by concerns about wildlife and the environment. These government regulatory requirements complicate our plans for development and may result in substantial costs that are not possible to pass through to our customers and which could impact the profitability of our operations. Our oil and gas operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to health and safety, land use, environmental protection or the oil and gas industry generally. Legislation affecting the industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing our regulatory burden. Compliance with such laws and regulations often increases our cost of doing business and, in turn, decreases our profitability. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the incurrence of investigatory or remedial obligations, or the issuance of cease and desist orders. The environmental laws and regulations to which we are subject may, among other things: • require applying for and receiving a permit before drilling commences; • restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; • limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and • impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. 19 Table of Contents Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to maintain compliance, and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our earnings, results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Over the years, we have owned or leased numerous properties for oil and gas activities upon which petroleum hydrocarbons or other materials may have been released by us or by predecessor property owners or lessees who were not under our control. Under applicable environmental laws and regulations, including CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination at such locations regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or whether the operations at the time of the release were standard industry practice. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Congress has considered legislation to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and natural gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process, and other legislation regulating hydraulic fracturing has been considered, and in some cases adopted, at various levels of government. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process in the completion of unconventional natural gas wells in shale formations, as well as tight conventional formations, including many of those that we complete and produce. This process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate natural gas production. Sponsors of these bills have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies and/or that hydraulic fracturing could pose a variety of other risks. Any additional level of regulation could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. Our gas drilling and production operations require adequate sources of water to facilitate the fracturing process and the disposal of that water when it flows back to the well-bore. If we are unable to obtain adequate water supplies and dispose of the water we use or remove at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules, our ability to produce gas commercially and in commercial quantities would be impaired. New environmental regulations governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could have an adverse affect on our operations and financial performance. Further, we must remove the water that we use to fracture our gas wells when it flows back to the well-bore. Our ability to remove and dispose of water will affect our production and the cost of water treatment and disposal may affect our profitability. The imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of natural gas. We are exposed to credit risk as it affects third parties with whom we have contracted. Third parties with whom we have contracted may lose existing financing or be unable to obtain additional financing necessary to continue their businesses. The inability of a third party to make payments to us for our accounts receivable, or the failure of our third party suppliers to meet our demands because they cannot obtain sufficient credit to continue their operations, may cause us to experience losses and may adversely impact our liquidity and our ability to make our payments when due. 20 Table of Contents Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Changes contained in President Obama’s 2013 budget proposal include the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax preferences currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. Such changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties; (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs; (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities; and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear, however, whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon such changes could be effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of the budget proposal, or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law, could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Potential legislative and regulatory actions addressing climate change could increase our costs, reduce our revenue and cash flow from natural gas and oil sales or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business. Future changes in the laws and regulations to which we are subject may make it more difficult or expensive to conduct our operations and may have other adverse effects on us. For example, the EPA has issued a notice of finding and determination that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gas (“GHG”) present an endangerment to human health and the environment, which allows EPA to begin regulating emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. EPA has begun to implement GHG-related reporting and permitting rules. Similarly, the U.S. Congress has considered and may in the future consider “cap and trade” legislation that would establish an economy-wide cap on emissions of GHGs in the United States and would require most sources of GHG emissions to obtain GHG emission “allowances” corresponding to their annual emissions of GHGs. Any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of GHGs would likely require us to incur increased operating costs and could have an adverse effect on demand for our production. We could be adversely affected by regulatory changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Reform Act, among other things, imposes restrictions on the use and trading of certain derivatives, including energy derivatives. The nature and scope of those restrictions will be determined in significant part through implementing regulations adopted by the SEC, the Commodities Futures Trading Commission and other regulators. If, as a result of the Reform Act or its implementing regulations, capital or margin requirements or other limitations relating to commodity derivative activities are imposed, this could have an adverse effect on our ability to secure hedges. In addition, requirements and limitations imposed on our derivative counterparties could increase the costs of hedges. 21 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 