Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our businesses involve a high degree of risk. You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report. If any of the following risks, or any risk described elsewhere in this Annual Report actually occurs, our business, business prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In any such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect us. The HIE Acquisition involves risks associated with acquisitions and integrating acquired businesses and the intended benefits of the HIE Acquisition may not be realized. The HIE Acquisition involves risks associated with acquisitions and integrating acquired businesses into existing operations, including: • our senior management’s attention, and a significant amount of our resources, may be diverted from the management of daily operations of our other businesses to the integration of HIE; • we could incur significant unknown and contingent liabilities for which we have limited or no contractual remedies or insurance coverage; • the businesses acquired in the HIE Acquisition may not perform as well as we anticipate; and • unexpected costs, delays and challenges may arise in integrating HIE into our existing operations. If we fail to integrate HIE into our existing businesses, or if we fail to realize the full benefits we anticipate from the HIE Acquisition, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The volatility of crude oil prices and refined product prices may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. Earnings and cash flows from our refining, distribution and marketing segment depend on a number of factors, including to a large extent the cost of crude oil and other refinery feedstocks which has fluctuated significantly in recent years. While prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil, the constantly changing margin between the price we pay for crude oil and other refinery feedstocks and the prices we receive for refined products (the “crack spread”) also fluctuates significantly from time to time. These prices depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the global supply and demand for crude oil, gasoline and other refined products, which are subject to, among other things: • changes in the global economy and the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil and refined products; • availability of crude oil and refined products and the infrastructure to transport crude oil and refined products; • local factors, including market conditions, the level of operations of other refineries in our markets, and the volume of refined products imported; • threatened or actual terrorist incidents, acts of war, and other global political conditions; • government regulations; and • weather conditions, hurricanes or other natural disasters. In addition, we purchase our refinery feedstocks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. Price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the manufactured refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant impact on our financial results. We also purchase refined products manufactured by others for sale to our customers. Price level changes during the periods between purchasing and selling these refined products could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 We cannot be certain that our net operating loss tax carryforwards will continue to be available to offset our tax liability. As of December 31, 2013, we estimated that we had approximately $1.3 billion of net operating loss tax carryforwards (“NOLs”). In order to utilize the NOLs, we must generate taxable income that can offset such carryforwards. The availability of NOLs to offset taxable income would be substantially reduced or eliminated if we were to undergo an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). We will be treated as having had an “ownership change” if there is more than a 50% increase in stock ownership during any three year “testing period” by “5% shareholders.” In order to help us preserve the NOLs, our certificate of incorporation contains stock transfer restrictions designed to reduce the risk of an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 of the Code. We expect that the restrictions will remain in place for the foreseeable future. We cannot assure you, however, that these restrictions will prevent an ownership change. The NOLs will expire in various amounts, if not used, between 2027 and 2032. The Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) has not audited any of our tax returns for any of the years during the carryforward period including those returns for the years in which the losses giving rise to the NOLs were reported. We cannot assure you that we would prevail if the IRS were to challenge the availability of the NOLs. If the IRS were successful in challenging our NOLs, all or some portion of the NOLs would not be available to offset our future consolidated income and we may not be able to pay taxes that may be due. Inadequate liquidity could materially and adversely affect our business operations in the future. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our obligations, we may be forced to reduce our capital expenditures, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be affected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our liquidity is constrained by our need to satisfy our obligations under our debt agreements and our Barclays supply and exchange agreements. The availability of capital when the need arises will depend upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include general economic and financial market conditions, the crack spread, natural gas and oil prices, our credit ratings, interest rates, market perceptions of us or the industries in which we operate, our market value and our operating performance. We may be unable to execute our long-term operating strategy if we cannot obtain capital from these sources when the need arises. We may be unable to successfully identify, execute or effectively integrate future acquisitions which may negatively affect our results of operations. We will continue to pursue acquisitions in the future. Although we regularly engage in discussions with, and submit proposals to, acquisition candidates, suitable acquisitions may not be available in the future on reasonable terms. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may be unable to successfully negotiate the terms of an acquisition, finance the acquisition or, if the acquisition occurs, effectively integrate the acquired business into our existing businesses. Negotiations of potential acquisitions and the integration of acquired business operations may require a disproportionate amount of management’s attention and our resources. Even if we complete additional acquisitions, continued acquisition financing may not be available or available on reasonable terms, any new businesses may not generate the anticipated level of revenues, the anticipated cost efficiencies or synergies may not be realized and these businesses may not be integrated successfully or operated profitably. Our inability to successfully identify, execute or effectively integrate future acquisitions may negatively affect our results of operations. Meeting the requirements of evolving environmental, health and safety laws and regulations including those related to climate change could adversely affect our performance. Consistent with the experience of other U.S. refiners, environmental laws and regulations have raised operating costs and may require significant capital investments at our refinery. We believe that existing physical facilities at our refinery are substantially adequate to maintain compliance with existing applicable laws and regulatory requirements. However, we may be required to address conditions that may be discovered in the future and require a response. Also, potentially material expenditures could be required in the future as a result of evolving environmental, health and safety, and energy laws, regulations or requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future. Future developments in federal and state laws and regulations governing environmental, health and safety and energy matters are especially difficult to predict. Currently, multiple legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) are in various phases of consideration, promulgation or implementation. These include actions to develop national, statewide or regional programs, each of which could require reductions in our greenhouse gas emissions. Requiring reductions in our greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any greenhouse gas emissions programs, including acquiring emission credits or allotments. Requiring reductions in our greenhouse gas emissions and increased use of renewable fuels which can be supplied by producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual customers could also decrease the demand for our refined products, and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example: 16 • The US EPA proposed regulations in 2009, that would require the reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases from light trucks and cars, and would establish permitting thresholds for stationary sources that emit greenhouse gases and require emissions controls for those sources. Promulgation of the final rule on April 1, 2010, has resulted in a cascade of related rulemakings by the US EPA pursuant to the Federal Clean Air Act (the “CAA”) relative to controlling greenhouse gas emissions. • In December 2007, the Energy Independence and Security Act was enacted into federal law, which created a second renewable fuels standard. This standard requires the total volume of renewable transportation fuels (including ethanol and advanced biofuels) sold or introduced in the U.S. to reach 18.2 billion gallons in 2014 and to increase to 36 billion gallons by 2022. However, the US EPA has proposed to reduce the total renewable and advanced biofuel requirements to 15.2 billion in 2014. • In March 2014, the US EPA published a Final Tier 3 gasoline standard that lowers the allowable sulfur level in gasoline to 10 ppm and also lowers the allowable benzene, aromatics and olefins content of gasoline. The effective date for the new standard, January 1, 2017, gives refineries nation-wide little time to engineer, permit, and implement substantial modifications. In addition, the inability of third parties to manufacture advanced biofuels may prohibit us from meeting the requirements of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. Our common stock is not listed for trading on a national market and the market for our common stock has been historically illiquid, which may affect your ability to sell your shares. Our common stock is not currently listed for trading on a national securities exchange. The volume of trading in our stock has historically been low. A substantial amount of our common stock is held by two investors who have restrictions on their ability to sell the stock. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2013, the average daily trading volume for our stock has been approximately 43,000 shares. Having a market for shares that are not listed for trading on a national market and without substantial liquidity can adversely affect the price of the stock at a time when you might want to sell your shares. We cannot assure investors that a more active trading market will develop even if we issue more equity in the future. Concentrated stock ownership and a restrictive certificate of incorporation provision may discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals. Zell Credit Opportunities Fund, L.P. (“ZCOF”) and Whitebox Advisors, LLC (“Whitebox”), together with their affiliates, each own or have the right to acquire as of the date hereof approximately 33.1% and 24.4% , respectively, or when aggregated, 57.5% of our outstanding common stock. The level of their combined ownership of shares of common stock could have the effect of discouraging or impeding an unsolicited acquisition proposal. In addition, the change in ownership limitations contained in Article 11 of our certificate of incorporation could have the effect of discouraging or impeding an unsolicited takeover proposal. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock, or the availability of our common stock for future sales, will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales in the public market of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. The potential effect of these shares being sold may be to depress the price at which our common stock trades. Our ability to generate cash and repay our indebtedness depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to do so could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to fund future capital expenditures and repay our indebtedness when due will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, borrowings under our debt agreements and distributions from our subsidiaries. To a certain extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory conditions and other factors that are beyond our control, including the crack spread and the prices we receive for our natural gas and oil production. We cannot assure you that our businesses will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that our subsidiaries can or will make sufficient distributions to us or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to repay our indebtedness or fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our needs, we may be forced to reduce our planned capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be affected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which could cause us to default on our obligations and could impair our liquidity. We may be unable to compete effectively with larger companies for acquisitions, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, and financial condition. The industries in which we operate are intensely competitive, and we compete with other companies that have greater resources than we have. Our ability to acquire additional businesses or properties in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable businesses or properties for acquisition and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Many of our larger competitors carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products and explore for and produce natural gas and oil, on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for acquisition targets, or evaluate or bid for and purchase a greater number of acquisition targets than our resources permit. Our inability to compete effectively with larger companies for acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 17 Competition from integrated national and international oil companies that produce their own supply of feedstocks, larger independent refiners and from high volume retailers and large convenience store retailing operators who may have greater financial resources, could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We compete with a number of integrated national and international oil companies who produce crude oil, some of which is used in their refining operations. Unlike these oil companies, we must purchase all of our crude oil from unaffiliated sources. Because these oil companies benefit from increased commodity prices, and as other larger independent refining companies have greater access to capital and have stronger capital structures, they are able to better withstand poor and volatile market conditions, such as a lower refining margin environment, shortages of crude oil and other feedstocks or extreme price fluctuations. We also face strong competition in the fuel and convenience store retailing market for the sale of retail gasoline and convenience store merchandise. Our competitors include service stations operated by integrated major oil companies and well-recognized national high volume retailers or regional large chain convenience store operators, often selling gasoline or merchandise at aggressively competitive prices. Some of these competitors may have access to greater financial resources, which may provide them with a better ability to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of our industry. Fundamental changes in the supply dynamics of foreign product imports could lead to reduced margins for the refined products we market, which could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our fuel retailing business. The adoption and implementation of new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions could have an adverse impact on our ability to manage risks associated with our businesses and increase the working capital requirements to conduct these activities. The Dodd-Frank Act provides for new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions, including oil and natural gas derivative transactions. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act provides for the creation of position limits for certain derivatives transactions, as well as requiring certain transactions to be cleared on exchanges for which cash collateral will be required. In October 2011, the CFTC approved final rules that establish position limits for futures contracts on 28 physical commodities, including four energy commodities, and swaps, futures and options that are economically equivalent to those contracts. The rules provide an exemption for “bona fide hedging” transactions or positions, but this exemption is narrower than the exemption under existing CFTC position limit rules. These newly approved CFTC position limits rules were vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2012. However, in November 2013, the CFTC proposed new rules that would place limits on positions in certain core futures and equivalent swaps contracts for or linked to certain physical commodities, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide hedging transactions. As these new position limit rules are not yet final, the impact of those provisions on us is uncertain at this time. It is not possible at this time to predict with certainty the full effect of the Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules on us and the timing of such effects. The Dodd-Frank Act may require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements if we do not satisfy certain specific exceptions. The Dodd-Frank Act may also require the counterparties to our derivatives contracts to transfer or assign some of their derivatives contracts to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. Depending on the rules adopted by the CFTC or similar rules that may be adopted by other regulatory bodies, we might in the future be required to provide cash collateral for our commodities derivative transactions under circumstances in which we do not currently post cash collateral. Posting of such additional cash collateral could impact liquidity and reduce our cash available for capital expenditures. A requirement to post cash collateral could therefore reduce our ability to execute transactions to reduce commodity price uncertainty and thus protect cash flows. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable. Many of our refined products could cause serious injury or death if mishandled or misused by us or our purchasers, or if defects occur during manufacturing. While we produce, store, transport and deliver all of our refined products in a safe manner, many of our refined products are highly flammable or explosive and could cause significant damage to persons or property if mishandled. Defects in our products (such as gasoline or jetfuel) or misuse by us or by end purchasers could lead to fatalities or serious damage to property. We may be held liable for such occurrences which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all acts of fraud. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. 18 Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, believes that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, they cannot provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our companies have been prevented or detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by an unauthorized override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement Section 404, we are required to furnish a report by our management to include in our annual reports on Form 10-K regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This Annual Report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. During the fourth quarter of 2013, management of the company performed a comprehensive assessment of the design and operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. In performing its assessment, management considered the number of late adjustments and corrections to the consolidated financial statements. As a result of this assessment, management concluded that it had a material weakness because it did not have sufficient qualified accounting personnel to prevent the company’s financial statements and related disclosures from being materially misstated. These material weaknesses had not been remedied as of December 31, 2013 and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in the future will depend on our ability to fulfill the steps to remediate these and other material weaknesses. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective now or in any future period, or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Adverse changes in global economic conditions and the demand for transportation fuels may impact our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The U.S. economic recovery from the recent recession continues to be tenuous, and the risk of further significant global economic downturn continues. Further prolonged downturns or failure to recover could result in declines in consumer and business confidence and spending as well as increased unemployment and reduced demand for transportation fuels. This continues to adversely affect the business and economic environment in which we operate. These conditions increase the risks associated with the creditworthiness of our suppliers, customers and business partners. The consequences of such adverse effects could include interruptions or delays in our suppliers’ performance of our contracts, reductions and delays in customer purchases, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products, and bankruptcy of customers. Any of these events may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. Our operations are subject to operational hazards that could expose us to potentially significant losses. Our operations are subject to potential operational hazards and risks inherent in refining operations, in transporting and storing crude oil and refined products and in producing natural gas and oil. Any of these risks, such as fires, explosions, maritime disasters, security breaches, pipeline ruptures and spills, mechanical failure of equipment, and severe weather and natural disasters, at our or third party facilities could result in business interruptions or shutdowns and damage to our properties and the properties of others. A serious accident at our facilities could also result in serious injury or death to our employees or contractors and could expose us to significant liability for personal injury claims and reputational risk. Any such event or unplanned shutdown could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We carry property, casualty and business interruption insurance but such insurance may not provide coverage against all potential losses. We carry property, casualty and business interruption insurance but we do not maintain insurance coverage against all potential losses. Marine vessel charter agreements do not include indemnity provisions for oil spills so we also carry marine charterer’s liability insurance. We could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance or failure by one or more insurers to honor its coverage commitments for an insured event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to protect it from the liabilities that could arise in our business. Although we maintain insurance overage against the risks related to our businesses, risks may arise for which we may not be insured. Claims covered by insurance are subject to deductibles, the aggregate amount of which could be material. Insurance policies are also subject to compliance with certain conditions, the failure of which could lead to a denial of coverage as to a particular claim or the voiding of a particular insurance policy. There also can be no assurance that existing insurance coverage can be renewed at commercially reasonable rates or that available coverage will be adequate to cover future claims. If a loss occurs that is partially or completely uninsured, we could be exposed to substantial liability. 19 Our business is impacted by environmental risks of spills, discharges or other releases of petroleum or hazardous substances that are inherent in refining and production operations. The operation of refineries, pipelines, and refined products terminals and the production of natural gas and oil is inherently subject to the risks of spills, discharges or other inadvertent releases of petroleum or hazardous substances. These events could occur in connection with our drilling and production activities and our refinery, pipelines, or refined products terminals, or in connection with any facilities which receive our waste or by-products for treatment or disposal. If any of these events occur, or is found to have previously occurred, we could be liable for costs and penalties associated with their remediation under federal, state and local environmental laws or common law, and could be liable for property damage to third parties caused by contamination from releases and spills. The penalties and clean-up costs that we may have to pay for releases or the amounts that we may have to pay to third parties for damages to their property, could be significant and the payment of these amounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in and adjacent to environmentally sensitive coastal waters where tanker, pipeline, and refined product transportation and storage operations are closely regulated by federal, state and local agencies and monitored by environmental interest groups. Transportation and storage of crude oil and refined products over and adjacent to water involves inherent risk and subjects us to the provisions of the Federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and state laws in Hawaii. Among other things, these laws require us and the owners of tankers that we charter to deliver crude oil to our refinery to demonstrate in some situations the capacity to respond to a spill of up to one million barrels of oil from a tanker and up to 600,000 barrels of oil from an above ground storage tank adjacent to water, which we refer to as a “Worst Case Discharge,” to the maximum extent possible. We and the owners of tankers we charter have contracted with various spill response service companies in the areas in which we transport and store crude oil and refined products to meet the requirements of the Federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and state and foreign laws. However, there may be accidents involving tankers, pipelines, or above ground storage tanks transporting or storing crude oil or refined products, and response services may not respond to a Worst Case Discharge in a manner that will adequately contain that discharge, or we may be subject to liability in connection with a discharge. Additionally, we cannot ensure that all resources of a contracted response service company could be available for our or a chartered tanker owner’s use at any given time. There are many factors that could inhibit the availability of these resources, including, but not limited to, weather conditions, governmental regulations or other global events. By requirement of state or federal rulings, these resources could be diverted to respond to other global events. Our operations are also subject to general environmental risks, expenses and liabilities which could affect our results of operations. From time to time we have been, and presently are, subject to litigation and investigations with respect to environmental and related matters. We may become involved in further litigation or other proceedings, or we may be held responsible in any existing or future litigation or proceedings, the costs of which could be material. We operate and have in the past operated retail stations with underground storage tanks in Hawaii. Federal and state regulations and legislation govern the storage tanks, and compliance with these requirements can be costly. The operation of underground storage tanks poses certain risks, including leaks. Leaks from underground storage tanks, which may occur at one or more of our retail stations, may impact soil or groundwater and could result in fines or civil liability for us. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry. We have, and will continue to have, a significant amount of indebtedness. Our obligation to repay our existing indebtedness will limit our ability to use our capital for other purposes. We may also incur additional debt, including secured indebtedness, or issue preferred stock in order to maintain adequate liquidity and develop our businesses to the extent desired. A higher level of indebtedness and/or preferred stock would increase the risk that we may default on our obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations depends on our future performance. General economic conditions, the crack spread, natural gas and oil prices and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of securities or a refinancing of our debt include financial market conditions, the value of our assets and our performance at the time we need capital. We are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil and refined products. Our refinery currently receives its crude oil via tankers and transports refined products from Oahu to Hawaii and Maui. In addition to environmental risks, we could experience an interruption of supply or an increased cost to deliver refined products to market if the ability of the pipelines or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of accidents, governmental regulation or third-party action. A prolonged disruption of the ability of a pipeline or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 We rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business, and the failure of any critical information system, including a cyber-security breach, may result in harm to our business. We are heavily dependent on our technology infrastructure and maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. These information systems include data network and telecommunications, internet access and our websites, and various computer hardware equipment and software applications, including those that are critical to the safe operation of our refinery and our pipelines and terminals. These information systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources including natural disasters, software viruses or other malware, power failures, cyber-attacks, and other events. To the extent that these information systems are under our control, we have implemented measures such as virus protection software and intrusion detection systems, to address the outlined risks. However, security measures for information systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe. Any compromise of our data security or our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business and subject us to additional costs and liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Finally, federal legislation relating to cyber-security threats could impose additional requirements on our operations. Our ability to operate our business effectively may suffer if we do not in a timely and cost effective manner establish our own financial, administrative, and other support functions related to the HIE Acquisition and we cannot assure you that the transitional services Tesoro agreed to provide us will be sufficient for our needs. In connection with the HIE Acquisition, we have entered into a transition services agreement with Tesoro under which Tesoro is providing certain transitional services to us, including finance/accounting, tax, retail, operations, information technology, environmental, health and safety, marine, and human resources, and other services for a period of time. These services may not be sufficient to meet our needs. After our agreement with Tesoro expires, if we have not established our own support services related to the HIE Acquisition, we may not be able to obtain these services at favorable prices or on favorable terms, if at all. Any failure or significant downtime in Tesoro’s financial, administrative, or other support systems during the transitional period could negatively impact our results of operations or prevent us from paying our suppliers and employees, or performing administrative or other services on a timely basis, which could negatively affect our results of operations. Our ability to extract value from our investment in Piceance Energy is limited. Our 33.34% ownership interest in Piceance Energy is a significant asset. Our operating income will therefore be dependent in part on the profitability of Piceance Energy and on the ability of Piceance Energy to make distributions to its owners, which is currently prohibited by the terms of the Piceance Energy Credit Facility. In addition, Laramie, which owns the remaining 66.66% ownership interest in Piceance Energy, controls most decisions affecting Piceance Energy’s operations and we only have veto rights over decisions of Piceance Energy in a limited number of areas. We cannot control the activities on properties we do not operate and we are unable to ensure the proper operation and profitability of these non-operated properties. We are a non-operator with respect to our natural gas and oil properties. Consequently, we have limited ability to exercise influence over, and control the risks associated with, the operation of these properties. The success and timing of leasehold acquisition, drilling and development activities therefore will depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including: • timing and amount of capital expenditures; • expertise and diligence in adequately performing operations and complying with applicable agreements; • financial resources; • inclusion of other participants in drilling wells; and • use of technology. As a result of any of the above or other failure of the operator to act in ways that are in our best interest, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Information concerning our natural gas and oil reserves is uncertain. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and cash flows from such reserves, including factors beyond our control. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of natural gas and oil that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of an estimate of quantities of natural gas and oil reserves, or of cash flows attributable to such reserves, is a function of the available data, assumptions regarding future natural gas and oil prices, availability and terms of financing, expenditures for future development and exploitation activities, and engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Reserves and future cash flows may also be subject to material downward or upward revisions based upon production history, development and exploitation activities, natural gas and oil prices and regulatory changes. Actual future production, revenue, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses, quantities of recoverable reserves and value of cash flows from those reserves may vary significantly from our assumptions and estimates. In addition, reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same data. Further, the difficult financing environment may inhibit our ability to finance development of our reserves in the future. 21 The estimated quantities of proved reserves and the discounted present value of future net cash flows attributable to those reserves as of December 31, 2013 included herein were prepared by independent reserve engineers in accordance with the rules of the SEC, and are not intended to represent the fair market value of such reserves. As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted present value of future net cash flows from proved reserves is generally based on prices and costs as required by the SEC on the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. In addition, the 10% discount factor the SEC requires to be used to calculate discounted future net revenues for reporting purposes is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on the cost of capital in effect from time to time and risks associated with our business and the natural gas and oil industry in general. Through Piceance Energy, we are subject to all the risks of natural gas and oil exploration and production. Although we are a non-operator, through our investment in Piceance Energy, and to a lesser extent, our other non-operated properties, we are exposed to all the risks inherent in natural gas and oil exploration and production, including the risks that: • we may not be able to replace production with new reserves; • exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves; • title to properties in which we or Piceance Energy has an interest may be impaired by title defects; • the marketability of our natural gas products depends mostly on the availability, proximity and capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities, which are owned by third parties; • we have no long-term contracts to sell natural gas and oil; • federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays; • natural gas drilling and production operations require adequate sources of water to facilitate the fracturing process and the disposal of that water when it flows back to the wellbore. If we are unable to obtain adequate water supplies and dispose of the water we use or remove at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules, our ability to produce natural gas commercially and in commercial quantities would be impaired. Potential legislative and regulatory actions addressing climate change could increase our costs, reduce our revenue and cash flow from natural gas and oil sales or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business. Future changes in the laws and regulations to which we are subject may make it more difficult or expensive to conduct our operations and may have other adverse effects on us. For example, the US EPA has issued a notice of finding and determination that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to human health and the environment, which allows the US EPA to begin regulating emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the CAA. The US EPA has begun to implement GHG-related reporting and permitting rules. Similarly, the U.S. Congress has considered and may in the future consider “cap and trade” legislation that would establish an economy-wide cap on emissions of GHGs in the United States and would require most sources of GHG emissions to obtain GHG emission “allowances” corresponding to their annual emissions of GHGs. For those sources of GHGs that are unable to meet the required limitations, such legislation could impose substantial financial burdens. Any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of GHGs would likely require us to incur increased operating costs and could have an adverse effect on demand for our production. Adverse results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect us. We are subject to and may in the future be subject to a variety of legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Irrespective of its merits, litigation may be both lengthy and disruptive to the company’s operations and may cause significant expenditures and diversion of management attention. We may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could materially adversely affect our business operations or materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations should we fail to prevail in certain matters. Negative publicity may adversely impact us. Media coverage and public statements that insinuate improper actions by the company, regardless of their factual accuracy or truthfulness, may result in negative publicity, litigation or investigations by regulators. Addressing negative publicity and any resulting litigation or investigations may distract management, increase costs and divert resources. Negative publicity may have an adverse impact on our reputation and the morale of our employees, which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Events outside the United States could create operating risks. United States embargoes or restrictive actions by U.S. and foreign governments could limit our ability to purchase crude oil and buy and sell petroleum products. Changes in, or the imposition of, withholding or other taxes on foreign income, tariffs or restriction on foreign trade and investment, political instability, war and civil disturbances or other events such as terrorist attacks, piracy and kidnapping may limit or disrupt markets, could negatively impact our ability to purchase crude oil or sell our refined products. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 22 