Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to current or historical fact, but address events or developments that we anticipate may occur in the future. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding our goals, beliefs, plans or current expectations, taking into account the information currently available to our management. When we use words such as “anticipate,” “intend,” “expect,” “believe,” “plan,” “may,” “should” or “would” or other words that convey uncertainty of future events or outcome, we are making forward-looking statements. Statements relating to future sales, earnings, operating performance, restructuring strategies, capital expenditures and sources and uses of cash, for example, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this report, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all other information contained in or incorporated by reference in this report and in our filings with the SEC. The risks described below and in our filings with the SEC are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or which we currently consider immaterial, also may adversely affect us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Due to operating losses incurred over the last six quarters, we have drawn-down on our liquidity facilities in order to satisfy our working capital, debt service and other cash requirements. Peak working capital demands, historically high copper prices, and continued operating losses may require us to exhaust funds available under these facilities to meet our liquidity needs. If this should occur, we may not be able to secure additional or alternative financing to continue to fund our cash requirements. 12 Table of Contents We have reported significant operating and restructuring losses over the last six quarters. Since our business has not generated sufficient cash flow from operations during this period to fund our working capital needs, pay interest on our outstanding borrowings and cover our capital expenditures and other cash requirements, we have drawn-down cash under our receivables sale facility and our secured revolving credit facility in order to fund these requirements. The amounts currently outstanding under these facilities, along with availability amounts set aside for outstanding standby letters of credit and other required reserves, have significantly reduced the liquidity available under these facilities to continue absorbing additional operating losses. Continued rising copper prices, recent operating and restructuring losses, as well as normal inventory builds and heightened seasonal working capital demands during the first quarter have made it necessary for us to continue to draw-down on our liquidity facilities to date in 2006. The performance of our business for the remainder of 2006 and beyond, and therefore our ability to generate cash flow from operations, is subject to general economic conditions and other financial and business factors, many of which (such as copper prices) are beyond our control. If we do not have sufficient amounts of cash available from operations and our existing liquidity facilities to continue to operate our business, make required payments on our outstanding debt, and fund our other liquidity needs, we will be required to secure additional or alternative financing in a timely manner. Due to our high level of indebtedness and the debt incurrence and other restrictions imposed by our existing debt and other financing arrangements, we may not be able to accomplish this on satisfactory terms, or at all. If such additional or alternative financing is unavailable, and if we are unable to obtain additional equity capital, sell assets, or otherwise restructure our debt and other financing arrangements in a timely manner, we could face a default and acceleration of our debt and other obligations, one result of which is bankruptcy or insolvency. If we are not able to meet the conditions in our receivables sale facility, our secured revolving credit facility, or our silver consignment and forward contracts facility, the counterparties to these facilities may restrict our access thereunder. We view our receivables sale facility and secured revolving credit facility as sources of available liquidity. In addition, we view our silver consignment facility as a source of indirect liquidity because it allows us to reduce the amount of working capital necessary to fund our silver raw material requirements. The agreements governing these facilities contain various conditions, covenants (including financial covenants such as minimum EBITDA requirements) and representations with which we must comply in order to access available amounts under the facilities. Because we would not have been in compliance with the consolidated minimum EBITDA covenants in the relevant agreements in the first, second or third quarters of 2005, we amended these agreements to bring us into compliance with those requirements for the applicable periods. The amendments we entered into in September 2005 suspended the minimum consolidated EBITDA covenants in the relevant agreements until quarterly testing resumes in the second quarter of 2007. In the future, there can be no assurances that we will be able to waive or amend the terms of our liquidity facilities, including financial covenants, should we not meet any terms in the agreements. Our ability to comply with these requirements may be affected by events beyond our control. If we are not in compliance with the conditions, covenants and representations 13 Table of Contents required for draw-downs under these facilities, and if we are unable to secure necessary waivers or other amendments from the counterparties, we will not have access to these facilities, which could significantly affect our ability to satisfy our working capital needs and other cash requirements. If we are unable to comply with the covenants contained in the indentures for our outstanding senior notes and in our other liquidity agreements, we could face an acceleration of our debt and possibly bankruptcy. The indentures for our outstanding notes and the agreements governing our secured revolving credit facility, our receivables sale facility and our silver consignment and forward contracts facility contain a number of covenants that significantly restrict our ability to, among other things: • incur other indebtedness; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • create or incur liens to secure debt; • prepay or repurchase indebtedness; • make certain restricted payments; • enter into certain business combinations and asset sale transactions; and • make investments. These restrictions significantly limit our ability to undertake future financings, secure additional or alternative liquidity, make needed capital expenditures, dispose of certain assets, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. In addition, the agreements governing our secured revolving credit facility and our receivables sale facility contain certain financial covenants and requirements, and the agreement governing our silver consignment and forward contracts facility incorporates the credit facility covenants by reference. Changes in economic or business conditions, results of operations or other factors could make us unable to comply with covenants in effect at that time and cause us to default under any of these agreements. Because our liquidity agreements and our senior note indentures contain cross-default provisions, a default, if not waived by the relevant counterparties, could result in acceleration of our debt and other obligations under multiple agreements, creating an adverse effect on our capital and liquidity. If we are unable to renew or replace our liquidity facilities as they expire or if we are unable to refinance or restructure our senior notes as they mature, one possible outcome may be bankruptcy or insolvency. Our secured revolving credit facility and our receivables sale facility expire in April 2008 and our silver consignment and forward contracts facility is terminable by the facility provider at any time. In addition, on August 1, 2008, we must repay or refinance $136.8 million in aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 7.375% Senior Notes, and on April 1, 2009, we must repay or refinance $99.4 million in aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 10.5% Senior Notes. While we have been able to access the commercial bank financing markets in the past due to our significant leverage, our financial condition and the debt incurrence limitation and other restrictions imposed by our senior note indentures and other 14 Table of Contents financing agreements, we may not be able to renew or replace our liquidity facilities upon their expiration on terms at least as favorable as the existing facilities, if at all. Similarly, we may not be able to access the capital markets to refinance our senior notes upon their maturity on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to access the capital and commercial bank credit markets, obtain additional equity capital, sell assets or otherwise restructure our financing facilities in a timely manner, one possible outcome may be bankruptcy or insolvency. In addition, our senior management has spent, and will continue to spend, significant time managing these liquidity and related planning issues, which diverts management’s attention from operational and other business concerns and could negatively affect our results of operations. Significant debt levels may limit our future ability to obtain additional financing and to pursue business opportunities. As of December 31, 2005, our total debt was $235.2 million, which represented approximately 59% of our total capitalization. We are permitted under the agreements governing our liquidity facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes to incur additional debt under certain limited circumstances. There are several important consequences of having significant debt levels, including the following: • a substantial portion of any available cash from operating activities must be used to pay principal and interest on our debt and may not be available for other purposes, thereby reducing the availability of such available cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be limited; • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate may be limited; • adverse economic or industry conditions are more likely to have a negative effect on our business; • we may be at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have relatively less indebtedness; • our ability to make acquisitions, develop new technologies and products and take advantage of significant business opportunities may be negatively affected; and • the need to use available cash from operating activities to service and pay our debt and for operating expenses may limit or impair our future ability to pay dividends, if any, on our common stock. Given our significant debt levels, if we and our subsidiaries are able to incur more debt, the risks described above could be further exacerbated. In certain circumstances, we and our subsidiaries may incur material amounts of additional indebtedness in the future. Although the agreements governing our liquidity facilities and indentures governing our outstanding notes contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and 15 Table of Contents exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. The amended liquidity facilities we entered into on April 28, 2005 generally prohibit us from incurring additional indebtedness. There are limited exceptions to this restriction that would permit us to incur specific types of indebtedness. For example, we may be able to incur up to $2.5 million in purchase money indebtedness to finance the purchase of fixed assets. The liquidity facilities also contain a general exception to this restriction for the incurrence of up to $5.0 million in additional unsecured debt under certain conditions. With certain limited exceptions, the indentures governing our senior notes both restrict our ability to incur secured indebtedness for borrowed money in an aggregate amount greater than 10% of our consolidated net tangible assets (which was $36.6 million at December 31, 2005), unless we equally and ratably secure the senior notes. However, the indenture governing our 7.375% Senior Notes does not restrict us from incurring unsecured debt, and the indenture governing our 10.5% Senior Notes does not limit the additional unsecured indebtedness we may incur so long as we have met the required coverage ratio, which generally measures our ability to cover our ongoing debt service obligations with our operations, and no default has occurred or is continuing. These restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness under the indentures. To the extent new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ currently anticipated debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described above would increase. Our business is dependent upon the availability and price of raw materials, particularly copper. Significant disruptions in the supply of raw materials or continued periods of historically high copper prices will materially adversely affect our operating results. Our profitability generally depends upon the margin between the cost to us of copper, other raw materials, and our fabrication costs associated with converting the metal compared to the selling price of our copper based products, and the overall supply of copper and other raw materials. In 2005, we purchased approximately 272 million pounds of raw metal, approximately 95% of which was copper. Average monthly copper prices in 2005 increased from a low of $1.45 per pound in January 2005 to a high of $2.17 per pound in December 2005. We believe this increase in copper prices is the result of several factors, including an imbalance between the current world supply and demand for copper, exacerbated by Asian demand, and financial speculation in the commodity market. We expect the price to continue to remain at historically high levels. It is our intention to base the selling prices of our products upon the associated raw materials costs to us at the time of sale of the finished product, the time of purchase of the raw material or as set by our purchases for forward delivery or hedging with futures and options contracts. However, we may not be able to pass all increases in copper costs and ancillary acquisition costs associated with taking possession of the metal through to our customers. Although we are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of copper, it is impossible to predict future availability. Continued growth in demand for copper in this country and abroad may result in copper shortages and increased price. The continued increase in the price of copper or the maintenance of the price at historically high rates, if not offset by sufficient 16 Table of Contents product price increases, or the inability to obtain copper or other needed raw materials, would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, certain of our copper products compete with products made of alternative substances, such as polybutylene plastic. A substantial increase in the price of copper could decrease the relative attractiveness of our copper products, particularly our wholesale products, in cases where an alternative exists and thereby adversely affect our sales volumes and results of operations. Continued historically high copper prices are having, and may continue to have, a substantial impact upon both demand and pricing for our wholesale products which may continue to negatively impact our business and adversely affect our revenues and operating margins. The historically high and unstable price of copper has reduced demand for copper wholesale products, and has created excess capacity amongst manufacturers. We are not the market leader in the U.S. in this segment, but have a large market share in the significantly smaller Canadian market. However, we do not believe that we are the low-cost producer in this segment. As competitors strive to maintain or increase market share, we see increasing pricing pressures which have negatively affected, and may continue to negatively affect, our business and operating results. Current conditions in the copper forward markets have been unusual and may have a significant impact on our financial results. The copper forward market is currently inverted, or in a “backwardation” market. In this scenario, the forward delivery price of copper is less than the current spot price of copper. The recent spreads between the current spot price and the forward price have increased to levels that have the potential to generate a cash and economic loss to us. If this situation continues, and we are unable to mitigate the backwardation impact, our financial results could be significantly impacted. Costs for energy and other natural resources may adversely affect our profitability. Changes in prices for natural gas and for other sources of fuel, electricity and gasoline have negatively affected the costs associated with our manufacturing operations. Certain of our operations are dependent upon natural gas to produce tubing. We have purchased on a forward basis a portion of our natural gas requirements over the next three years. Decreases in natural gas future prices, as well as significant increases for other sources of fuel, electricity and gasoline, would further increase our operating costs and have a material negative effect on our gross profit. Although we try to pass along increased costs in the form of price increases to our customers, we may be unsuccessful in doing so for competitive reasons, and even when successful, the timing of such price increases may lag significantly behind our incurrence of higher costs. 17 Table of Contents Our customers operate in industries that are subject to cyclical and seasonal demand and that are affected by other global economic and regulatory conditions, which can adversely affect our sales volumes and profitability. Achievement of our business objectives depends on the continued growth of customer demand for our products or services. If the copper tube industry does not continue to grow, the demand for our products and services may not continue to develop. Our business is affected by changes in demand in our customers’ markets as well as by global economic conditions that affect our customers’ operations. Any significant downturn in our customers’ businesses could result in a reduction in demand for our products and could reduce our revenue. Demand for our products, particularly our wholesale products, is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in general economic conditions that affect our customers’ markets and that are beyond our control. These conditions include, among other things, the level of economic growth, employment levels, financing availability, interest rates, consumer confidence, housing demand and construction activity. Decreases in demand for our products resulting from these conditions can reduce the prices we receive for our products, our unit sales volumes and our gross profit. In addition, demand in certain of the industries to which we sell our products, including the residential air conditioning industry, and to a lesser extent, the commercial air conditioning industry, is seasonal. Our sales to the residential air conditioning industry are generally greater in the first and second quarters of the year and lower in the third and fourth quarters due to our customers’ increase of inventory in anticipation of summer air conditioning sales and housing starts. Our sales to the residential air conditioning industry also decrease in years with unseasonably cool summers. Additionally, new federal regulations effective January 2006 requiring a 30% improvement in efficiency standards of certain residential air conditioning units, as discussed in “Item 1 — Business – Energy Efficiency and Governmental Regulations,” have not resulted in the increase in demand for our products that we expected in 2005, and in the future may not increase demand for our products to the extent or in the time periods that we anticipate. We face significant competition in many cases from competitors that have manufacturing and financial resources greater than ours. We face significant competition in each of our product lines. We have numerous competitors, some of which are larger than us and have greater financial resources. We may not be able to compete successfully, and the competition may have a negative effect on our business, operating results or financial condition by reducing volume of products sold and/or selling prices and accordingly, reducing revenues and profits and depleting capital. Minimal product differentiation among competitors in our wholesale and rod and bar product lines creates a pricing structure where customers differentiate between products almost exclusively on price. In these product areas, certain of our competitors have significantly larger market shares than us and tend to be the industry pricing leaders. If our competitors in these product lines were to significantly reduce prices, our unit sales and profit margins could be reduced. We currently face limited competition for certain of our higher value-added commercial products that have higher profit margins. If our existing competitors expand operations in these product categories 18 Table of Contents or if new competitors enter these product lines, our sales of these higher margin products could fall and our profitability could be reduced or eliminated. For certain of our higher value-added commercial products, which have higher margins, we compete primarily on the basis of technological advantages of these products. Technological improvements by competitors could reduce our advantage in these product lines and thereby reduce our revenue. We could also be adversely affected if new technologies emerge in the air conditioning, refrigeration or other consumer industries that reduce or eliminate the need for copper and copper alloy tube, fabricated products and metal joining products. Certain of our products, such as plumbing tube, compete with products made of alternative substances, such as polybutylene plastic. A substantial increase in the price of copper could decrease the relative attractiveness of copper products in cases where an alternative exists and thereby reduce our revenue. Increasing competition from Asian competitors who sell both within China and for export to other parts of the world may negatively impact our business and adversely affect our revenue and operating results. We face increased competition for the products we manufacture within China. Due to our relative market share for sales within China, we are subject to continuing competitive pricing pressures in this country. Further, as Asian competitors continue to increase their exports into the U.S. and other markets we serve world-wide, our ability to maintain price, market share and operating margins may be negatively impacted. The loss of any of our major customers could adversely affect our revenues and financial health. In 2005 and 2004, our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 46% and 44%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. If we were to lose any of our relationships with these customers, our revenues, and results of operations and financial condition might suffer. Risks associated with the operation of our manufacturing facilities may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our revenues are dependent on the continued operation of our various manufacturing facilities. The operation of manufacturing plants involves many risks including: • the breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment; • inclement weather and natural disasters; • the need to comply with directives of, and maintain all necessary permits from, governmental agencies; • raw material supply disruptions; • labor force shortages, work stoppages, or other labor difficulties; and • transportation disruptions. The occurrence of material operational problems, including but not limited to the above events, may have an adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility, or to us as a whole. 19 Table of Contents We may engage in divestitures that could have a negative impact on our operations and financial results and the availability under certain of our liquidity facilities. Although our senior note indentures and the agreements governing our liquidity facilities impose certain limitations on our ability to sell assets, we may seek waivers of these restrictions under such indentures and agreements to engage in certain divestitures or we may otherwise engage in certain permitted divestitures that could have a negative impact on our operations and financial results, and could, for example, decrease the assets included in our secured revolving credit facility borrowing base. A future divestiture of one or more of our plants or operations in the future may require a restructuring of operations and could divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Currency fluctuations may place us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our revenue. Our manufacturing costs, profit margins and competitive position may be affected by the strength of the currencies in countries where our products are manufactured relative to the strength of the currencies in the countries where our products are sold. We currently have significant manufacturing operations in Canada which supplies numerous U.S. customers. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, our Canadian operations accounted for 22% of consolidated net sales. If the Canadian dollar strengthens materially against the U.S. dollar, our Canadian operations could be subject to increased competition from U.S. suppliers, which could reduce our revenue from operations and affect our results of operations and financial position. Our international operations expose us to numerous risks that other companies that are not global may not face. We have significant manufacturing and/or sales operations in Canada, China, The Netherlands, Portugal and Mexico. In 2005, foreign operations represented 29% of our consolidated net sales. As with all companies that have sizeable operations and sales outside the U.S., we are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business across national boundaries, any one of which could adversely impact our business. In addition to currency fluctuations, these risks include: • economic downturns; • changes in or interpretations of local law, governmental policy or regulation, particularly in countries with developing legal systems such as China; • restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of the country; • import and export duties and quotas and other trade barriers; • domestic and foreign customs and tariffs; • varying tax systems; • different regimes controlling the protection of our intellectual property; • political unrest; • military outbreaks; • government instability; • nationalization of foreign assets; and • government protectionism 20 Table of Contents We intend to continue to evaluate opportunities to establish new manufacturing and sales operations outside the U. S. One or more of the foregoing factors could impair our current or future international operations and, as a result, harm our overall business. We, and some of our major customers, have unionized employees and could be adversely affected by labor disputes. Some of our employees and some employees of our major customers are unionized. At December 31, 2005, approximately 18% of our employees were unionized. Our unionized employees are hourly workers located at both our Montreal, Quebec facility, where various copper and copper alloy tube products and substantially all of our rod and bar products are manufactured, and our Monterrey, Mexico facility, where technical copper and copper alloy tube and fabricated products are manufactured. Our operations and financial results in 2005 were negatively affected by an organized work slow-down and subsequent strike at our Montreal facility by hourly workers in the first and second quarters of 2005. The strike was settled on May 25, 2005. The new collective bargaining agreement with the union representing these employees expires May 25, 2008. The collective bargaining agreement with the employees at our Monterrey, Mexico facility expired on January 31, 2006. A new collective bargaining agreement became effective February 1, 2006 and expires on January 31, 2007. Further labor disputes by any of our employees, or our customers’ employees, could again have a significant negative effect on our financial results and operations. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our ability to operate effectively may be impaired. Our ability to operate our business and implement strategies depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. Our management philosophy of cost-control means that we operate with a limited number of corporate personnel, and our commitment to a less centralized organization also places greater emphasis on the strength of local management. In addition, we have experienced significant turnover of our executive officers and other key employees in the last several years. Our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel, particularly executive management. The loss of the services of any of our key employees or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel, domestically or abroad, could have a material adverse effect on our business or business prospects. We could incur significant costs, including remediation costs, as a result of complying with environmental laws. Our facilities and operations are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations imposed by federal, state, provincial and local authorities in the U.S., Canada, China, Portugal and Mexico relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety, including those governing emissions to air, discharges to waterways and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous materials. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines or sanctions, and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. We have incurred, and in the future may continue to incur, liability under environmental statutes and regulations with respect to the contamination detected at sites owned or operated by us 21 Table of Contents (including contamination caused by prior owners and operators of such sites, abutters or other persons) and the sites at which we disposed hazardous substances. We have established a reserve with respect to certain presently estimated environmental remediation costs. This reserve may not be adequate to cover the ultimate costs of these liabilities (or ones that may be identified in the future) and the discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations could result in significant costs. In addition, we expect that future regulations, and changes in the text or interpretation of existing regulations, may subject us to increasingly stringent standards. Compliance with such requirements may make it necessary, at costs which may be substantial, for us to retrofit existing facilities with additional pollution-control equipment, undertake new measures in connection with the storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of by-products and wastes or take other steps. Our competitive advantage could be reduced if our intellectual property becomes known by our competitors, or if technological changes reduce our customers’ need for our products. We own a number of trademarks and patents (in the U.S. and other jurisdictions) on our products and related manufacturing processes and we have granted licenses with respect to some of our trademarks and patents. In addition to trademark and patent protection, we rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technological advances that we seek to protect. If our intellectual property is not properly protected or is independently discovered by others or otherwise becomes known, our protection against competitive products could be diminished. Because we compete primarily on the basis of these technical advantages of our commercial products, technical improvements by our competitors could reduce our competitive advantage in these product lines and thereby reduce our unit sales and profits per unit. In addition, the development of new technologies in the air conditioning, refrigeration or other consumer industries, including technologies developed in response to the elimination of CFCs and certain refrigerants, could reduce or eliminate the need for copper and copper alloy based products and thereby reduce our sales volumes and have a negative impact on our operating results. If our internal computer network and applications suffer disruptions or fail to operate as designed, our operations will be disrupted and our business may be harmed. We rely on network infrastructure and enterprise applications, and internal technology systems for our operational, marketing support and sales, and product development activities. The hardware and software systems related to such activities are subject to damage from earthquakes, floods, lightning, tornadoes, fire, power loss, telecommunication failures and other similar events. They are also subject to acts such as computer viruses, physical or electronic vandalism or other similar disruptions that could cause system interruptions and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from fulfilling our customers’ orders. We have developed disaster recovery plans and backup systems to reduce the potentially adverse effects of such events, but there are no assurances such plans and systems would be sufficient. Any event that causes failures or interruption in our hardware or software systems could result in disruption of our business operations, have a negative impact on our operating results, and damage our reputation. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: 22 Table of Contents • quarterly variations in our operating results; • our ability to meet our liquidity needs; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; • failure to meet analysts’ or our own revenue or earnings estimates; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • the impact of the risks discussed herein and our ability to react effectively to those risks; • limited trading volume of our common stock; • a change in technology that may add to manufacturing costs; • actions by institutional stockholders; • general market conditions; and • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Limited trading volume of our common stock may contribute to its price volatility. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the average daily trading volume of our common stock as reported by Bloomberg L.P. was approximately 65,000 shares. It is uncertain whether a more active trading market in our common stock will develop. Also, many investment banks no longer find it profitable to provide securities research on small-cap and mid-cap companies. If analysts were to discontinue coverage of our common stock, our trading volume may be further reduced. As a result, relatively small trades may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, which could increase the volatility and depress the price of such stock. Future sales of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our ability to raise capital in the equity markets. In the future, we may sell additional shares of our common stock in public or private offerings, and we may also issue additional shares of common stock to finance future acquisitions. Shares of our common stock are also available for future sales pursuant to stock options and/or restricted stock that we have granted to certain employees and directors, and in the future we may grant additional stock options and/or restricted stock to our employees and directors. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for shares of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings. Provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law and in other agreements may delay or prevent an acquisition of Wolverine, which could decrease the value of our common stock. 23 Table of Contents Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include a classified board of directors, removal of directors only for cause, and the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Although we believe these provisions provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, under the indenture governing our 10.5% Senior Notes, in the event a change in control occurs, we may be required to repurchase all of our outstanding 10.5% Senior Notes at 101% of their original aggregate principal amount plus accrued interest. A change in control would also result in an event of default or amortization event under our liquidity facilities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has no unresolved SEC comments. 