Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the management discussion and analysis set out below, contains or incorporates a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Act Exchange of 1934. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industry and markets in which we operate and management’s beliefs and assumptions. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact should be considered forward-looking statements and should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this report as well as the risk factors set forth below. The statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risk Related to our Operations HearUSA has a history of operating losses which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and HearUSA may never be profitable. HearUSA has historically incurred net losses since its organization. Our accumulated deficit at December 25, 2010 was approximately $123 million. We expect quarterly and annual operating results to fluctuate, depending primarily on the following factors: · Timing of product sales; · Level of consumer demand for our products; · Timing and amounts of payments by health insurance and managed care organizations; and · Timing and success of new centers and acquired centers. There can be no assurance that HearUSA will achieve profitability in the near or long term or ever. These circumstances raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern as described in an explanatory paragraph to our independent registered public accounting firm’s report on our audited financial statements for the year ended December 25, 2010. The assets and liabilities as reflected in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 25, 2010 do not include any adjustments for this uncertainty. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, investors will likely lose all of their investment in our Company. Our independent auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our financial statements for the year ended December 25, 2010 includes a paragraph stating that we have suffered recurring operating losses, have negative cash from operations and negative working capital; which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The assets and liabilities as reflected in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 25, 2010 do not include any adjustments for this uncertainty. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to raise additional financing and to generate profitable operations in the future to meet our obligations and repay our liabilities as they come due. The outcome of these efforts cannot be predicted with any certainty at this time and if these efforts are unsuccessful, we will not be able to meet our obligations and repay our liabilities, which could include the monthly payments due to Siemens under the supply agreement, as they come due. Failure to make payments under the supply agreement would constitute a breach of the supply agreement and could constitute a cross-default under the credit agreement. We have historically satisfied our capital raising needs primarily by issuing securities. If we are unable to generate cash from operations and/or raise capital through the issuance of securities we might have to cease operations. 11 We are currently involved in litigation against Siemens regarding a dispute under the credit agreement which, if decided adversely to us, would have a material adverse effect on the Company. We are currently seeking adjudication of a dispute with Siemens Hearing Instruments, Inc. regarding a loan prepayment in the amount of $2.3 million which Siemens claims is due. While this case was pending, on March 17, 2011, Siemens issued a notice of default under the credit agreement in respect of this unpaid disputed amount, accelerated all remaining payments under the credit agreement and demanded immediate payment of $32.7 million. Although we are defending our rights under the credit agreement and objecting to Siemens’ issuance of the notice and acceleration, we cannot predict the outcome of this matter. A hearing on our motion for preliminary injunction to enjoin Siemens from engaging in self-help to collect under the credit agreement and from making any efforts to seize assets or take control of our business, as well as from declaring the default and accelerating the loan, is scheduled for May 2, 2011. If the case is decided adversely to the Company on May 2, 2011, the Company may be unable to meet its obligations and Siemens may proceed to collect under the credit agreement. This would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if upon the resolution of the dispute with Siemens it is determined there is a default under the credit agreement, the Company will remain obligated to perform under the supply agreement, including buying the specified products from Siemens in accordance with the supply agreement. We may not be able to obtain additional capital on reasonable terms, or at all, to fund our operations or pay our obligations as they become due. We require additional financing. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be unable to fund our operations or pay our obligations as they become due, including any obligations arising from the dispute with Siemens concerning the alleged prepayment obligation. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of convertible debt or equity securities, Siemens has certain rights of first refusal and preemptive rights under its existing agreements with us which may complicate or eliminate our ability to close on reasonable financing with third parties. In addition, any equity financing will be dilutive to existing stockholders and such securities may have rights and preferences senior to those of our common stockholders. The terms of any such securities may impose significant restrictions on operations. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be unable to remain in business. We are performing a goodwill impairment analysis which may result in a write down of our goodwill and other intangible assets which will negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations during the first quarter of 2011. Based on Siemens’ March 17, 2011 declaration of default under the credit agreement, our operating results and lack of liquidity, we concluded that there were sufficient indicators to require us to perform an interim goodwill impairment analysis during the first quarter of 2011. As of December 25, 2010 we had goodwill of $51.9 million and other intangible assets of $12.1 million, representing 246% and 58%, respectively, of stockholders’ equity. The first step of our interim goodwill impairment analysis is indicating that there is a probable likelihood that the goodwill recorded in our centers reporting unit was impaired. We are in the process of completing the first step of the impairment analysis, and will then complete the second step of the assessment. As of the date of the filing of the annual report, we have not yet been able to determine the extent of the impairment or the impairment loss or range of loss related to goodwill, other intangible assets and long-lived assets. Any material impairment charge would have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations during the first quarter of 2011. The current severe economic downturn has adversely affected our sales. Our business is affected by general economic conditions. As the downturn in the economy affects consumer spending, our sales are affected directly because many consumers forego attending to their hearing health care or select lower cost hearing aids in order to conserve cash. This adversely affects our unit sales. A sustained downturn in the economy in our local areas of operations, as well as on the state, national and international levels, will adversely affect the performance of our centers and our network providers. 12 We may not effectively compete in the hearing care industry. The hearing care industry is highly fragmented and barriers to entry are low. Approximately 12,000 practitioners provide testing and dispense products and services that compete with those sold and provided by HearUSA. We also compete with small retailers, as well as large networks of franchisees and distributors established by larger companies, such as those manufacturing and selling Miracle Ear and Beltone products. Some of the larger companies have far greater resources than HearUSA and could expand and/or change their operations to capture the market targeted by HearUSA. Large discount retailers, such as Costco Wholesale Corporation, also sell hearing aids and present a competitive threat in our markets. In addition, it is possible that the hearing care market could be effectively consolidated by the establishment of cooperatives, alliances or associations that could compete more successfully for the market targeted by us. We are dependent on manufacturers. HearUSA is not a hearing aid manufacturer. We rely on major manufacturers to supply our hearing aids and to supply hearing enhancement devices. Under our strategic and financial relationship with Siemens, we are required to purchase 90% of our requirement of hearing aids from Siemens. A significant disruption in supply from Siemens could materially adversely affect our business. Our credit facility with Siemens contains certain restrictive covenants that we must satisfy in order to avoid an event of default. HearUSA and Siemens are parties to a credit agreement pursuant to which HearUSA has obtained a $50 million secured credit facility from Siemens. As of December 25, 2010, an aggregate of approximately $32 million in loans was outstanding under the credit facility. We are required to comply with the terms of the credit facility, including compliance with certain restrictive covenants. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with these covenants in the future. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, we may be found in default by Siemens and all loans could be immediately due and payable under the credit agreement. In addition, we have entered into a supply agreement with Siemens, which imposes certain purchase requirements on us. If we fail to comply with the supply agreement or if the supply agreement is terminated (except for termination by us upon breach by Siemens) the credit agreement may be terminated and all loans could be immediately due and payable. This would have a material adverse effect on our ability to do business and on our results of operations. Current credit and financial market conditions could prevent or delay us from obtaining financing which could adversely affect our business, our operating results and financial condition. Current market conditions could severely limit our ability to access capital. Because our stock has a low trading volume, we may not be able to access the equity market or may be limited in the amount of equity financing available. If we need to obtain equity or debt financing, we may not be able to do so on satisfactory terms. This could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to maintain existing agreements or enter into new agreements with health insurance and managed care organizations, which may result in reduced revenues. HearUSA enters into provider agreements with health insurance companies and managed care organizations for the furnishing of hearing care in exchange for fees. The terms of most of these agreements are to be renegotiated annually, and these agreements may be terminated by either party, usually on 90 days or less notice at any time. In 2009, a number of health insurance and managed care organizations re-evaluated benefits coverage for their participants, including hearing care benefits, in response to the difficult economic situation and rising health care costs. Effective in January 2011, few plans eliminated hearing care benefits, while others continued but changed or limited the benefit. Still other companies retained hearing care coverage. There is no certainty that we will be able to maintain all of our agreements on favorable terms or at all. The AARP Hearing Care Program is still in its early stages and there can be no assurance that the program will generate the expected increases to Company revenue over time or at all. The success of the AARP program is and will remain subject to several risks and variables over the next several quarters, some of which cannot be ascertained with certainty at this time. Among those risks are risks related to: 13 · the effectiveness of AARP’s and the Company’s marketing initiatives to generate interest of AARP members in the program; · the Company’s ability to capitalize on the increased number of calls to the AARP call center by converting those calls to appointments; · whether AARP member appointments will result in identified needs and related sales; · the Company’s ability to expand the number of qualified network providers in order to extend the program to AARP members in all 50 states and the U.S. territories in accordance with the terms of the Company’s agreement with AARP and AARP Services, Inc. (“ASI”); and · the Company’s ability to fund its performance obligations under the Company’s agreements with AARP and ASI. Failure of the AARP program to generate expected increases in revenues could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company. We rely on qualified audiologists, without whom our business may be adversely affected. HearUSA currently employs approximately 178 licensed hearing professionals, of whom approximately 124 are audiologists and 54 are licensed hearing aid specialists. If we are not able to attract and retain qualified providers, we will be less able to compete with networks of hearing aid retailers or with the independent audiologists who also sell hearing aids and our business may be adversely affected. Many audiologists are obtaining doctorate degrees, and the increased educational time required at the doctoral level is further restricting the pool of audiologists available for employment. In addition to our employed hearing professionals, we rely on our network of audiologists and hearing aid specialists. If we are not able to maintain our network, our business could suffer. We depend on our joint venture for our California operations and may not be able to attract sufficient patients to our California centers without it. HEARx West LLC, our joint venture with Kaiser Permanente, operates 38 full-service centers in California. Since their inception, HEARx West centers have derived approximately two-thirds of their revenues from sales to Kaiser Permanente members, including revenues through an agreement between the joint venture and Kaiser Permanente’s California division servicing its hearing benefited membership. If Kaiser Permanente does not perform its obligations under the agreement, or if the agreement is not renewed upon expiration, the loss of Kaiser patients in the HEARx West centers would adversely affect our business. In addition, HEARx West centers would be adversely affected by the loss of the ability to market to Kaiser members and promote the business within Kaiser’s medical centers, including the referral of potential customers by Kaiser. We rely on the efforts and success of managed care companies that may not be achieved or sustained. Many managed care organizations, including some of those with whom we have contracts, have experienced and are continuing to experience significant difficulties arising from the widespread growth and reach of available plans and benefits. If the managed care organizations are unable to attract and retain covered members in our geographic markets, we may be unable to sustain the operations of our centers in those geographic areas. In addition, managed care organizations are subject to changes in federal legislation affecting healthcare. Changes in legislation may have an effect on the way these organizations deliver services to their members. If these changes result in contract cancellations with these organizations, there can be no assurance that we can maintain all of our centers. We will close centers where warranted and such closures could have a material adverse effect on us. We may not be able to maintain accreditation, and as a result our revenues may suffer. HearUSA has a three-year accreditation from the URAC through 2011. There can be no assurance that we can maintain our URAC accreditation. If we are not able to maintain our accredited status after the current accreditation period expires in 2011, our revenues may suffer. 14 We are subject to numerous federal and state laws and regulations and changes to any of them could have an impact on our operations. We are subject to a variety of federal and state governmental laws and regulations. If any of these laws or regulations changes, or if the applicable governmental agency changes its interpretation, our operations may be affected. Failure to comply with government regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties. Federal and state governments have enacted fraud and abuse laws, laws to protect patients’ privacy and licensure laws. Violation of these and other laws or regulations governing our operations or the operations of our employed or network hearing professionals could result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, the suspension or revocation of our licenses or our exclusion from participating in Medicare or Medicaid. If we were to become subject to these penalties or exclusions as the result of our actions or omissions, it would negatively affect our ability to operate our business. HIPAA broadened the scope of fraud and abuse laws applicable to healthcare companies. HIPAA created civil penalties for, among other things, billing for medically unnecessary goods or services. HIPAA established new enforcement mechanisms to combat fraud and abuse, including civil and, in some instances, criminal penalties for failure to comply with specific standards relating to the privacy, security and electronic transmission of most individually identifiable health information. The HITECH Act expanded the scope of these provisions by mandating individual notification in instances of data breach, providing enhanced penalties for HIPAA violations, and granting enforcement authority to states’ Attorneys General in addition to the HHS Office of Civil Rights. It is possible that Congress may enact additional legislation in the future to increase penalties and to create a private right of action under HIPAA, which could entitle patients to seek monetary damages for violations of the privacy rules. Changes in state and federal regulation of the delivery of health care services and products may have a material adverse effect on our business. In the current economic and political climate, many changes to the delivery of health care services and products are being considered. In particular, federal healthcare reform law may significantly impact our business. While some provisions of the health care reform law have been implemented, many are still subject to future rule-making and implementation. Further, there have been a number of lawsuits filed that challenge all or part of the law. Further, various Congressional members have indicated a desire to revisit some or all of the health care reform law during 2011. There have been a number of bills introduced that would repeal or change certain provisions of the law. It is unclear what effect that the law will have on our business; some changes to reimbursement and to the Medicare system could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, some states have proposed new regulation of health care services and products. We cannot predict the impact of any such new state regulation on our business or operations. We are exposed to potential product and professional liability that could adversely affect us if a successful claim is made in excess of insurance policy limits. In the ordinary course of its business, HearUSA may be subject to product and professional liability claims alleging that products sold or services provided by the Company failed or had adverse effects. We maintain liability insurance at a level which we believe to be adequate. A successful claim in excess of the policy limits of the liability insurance could materially adversely affect our business. As the distributor of products manufactured by others, we believe we would properly have recourse against the manufacturer in the event of a product liability claim. There can be no assurance, however, that recourse against a manufacturer by HearUSA would be successful, or that any manufacturer will maintain adequate insurance or otherwise be able to pay such liability. 15 Risks Relating to HearUSA Common Stock The price of our common stock is volatile and could decline. The price of HearUSA common stock could fluctuate significantly, and you may be unable to sell your shares at a profit. There are significant price and volume fluctuations in the market generally that may be unrelated to our operating performance, but which nonetheless may adversely affect the market price for HearUSA common stock. The price of our common stock could change suddenly due to factors such as: · the amount of our cash resources and ability to obtain additional funding; · economic conditions in markets we are targeting; · fluctuations in operating results; · changes in government regulation of the healthcare industry; · failure to meet estimates or expectations of the market; · rate of acceptance of hearing aid products in the geographic markets we are targeting; · market perception of the potential for our success with the AARP Program; and · events relating to changes in our relationship with our strategic partner, Siemens, including an adverse decision in the Siemens dispute described in Legal Proceedings. Any of these conditions may cause the price of HearUSA common stock to fall, which may reduce business and financing opportunities available to us and reduce your ability to sell your shares at a profit, or at all. Exercise of outstanding HearUSA options could cause substantial dilution. As of December 25, 2010, there were options to purchase approximately 6.8 million shares of common stock outstanding. To the extent outstanding options are exercised or additional shares of capital stock are issued, stockholders will incur additional dilution. Future sales of shares may depress the price of HearUSA common stock. If substantial stockholders sell shares of HearUSA common stock into the public market, or investors become concerned that substantial sales might occur, the market price of HearUSA common stock could decrease. For example, the Company has registered 6.4 million shares for resale by Siemens from time to time. Such a decrease in market price of our stock could make it difficult for us to raise capital by selling stock or to pay for acquisitions using stock. In addition, HearUSA employees hold a significant number of options to purchase shares, many of which are presently exercisable. Employees may exercise their options and sell shares soon after such options become exercisable, particularly if they need to raise funds to pay for the exercise of such options or to satisfy tax liabilities that they may incur in connection with exercising their options. HearUSA might fail to maintain a listing for its common stock on the NYSE Amex, making it more difficult for stockholders to dispose of or to obtain accurate quotations as to the value of their HearUSA stock. HearUSA common stock is presently listed on the NYSE Amex. The NYSE Amex will consider delisting a company’s securities if, among other things, · the company fails to maintain stockholder’s equity of at least $2 million if the company has sustained losses from continuing operations or net losses in two of its three most recent fiscal years; · the company fails to maintain stockholder’s equity of $4 million if the company has sustained losses from continuing operations or net losses in three of its four most recent fiscal years; 16 · the company fails to maintain stockholder’s equity of $6 million if the company has sustained losses from continuing operations or net losses in its five most recent fiscal years; or · the company has sustained losses which are so substantial in relation to its overall operations or its existing financial resources, or its financial condition has become so impaired that it appears questionable, in the opinion of the NYSE Amex, as to whether such issuer will be able to continue operations and/or meet its obligations as they mature. HearUSA may not be able to maintain its listing on the NYSE Amex, and there may be no public market for the HearUSA common stock. In the event that HearUSA common stock is delisted from the NYSE Amex, trading, if any, in the common stock would be conducted in the over-the-counter market. As a result, you would likely find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of your HearUSA common stock. If “penny stock” regulations apply to HearUSA common stock, you may not be able to sell or dispose of your shares. If HearUSA common stock is delisted from the NYSE Amex, the “penny stock” regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission might apply to transactions in the common stock. A “penny stock” generally includes any over-the-counter equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share. The Commission regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule prescribed by the Commission relating to the penny stock. A broker-dealer effecting transactions in penny stocks must make disclosures, including disclosure of commissions, and provide monthly statements to the customer with information on the limited market in penny stocks. These requirements may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in penny stocks. If the penny stock regulations were to become applicable to transactions in shares of HearUSA common stock, they could adversely affect your ability to sell or otherwise dispose of your shares. Terms of our agreements with Siemens may discourage a third party from making a takeover offer which could be beneficial to HearUSA and its stockholders. Pursuant to the terms of the Investor Rights Agreement with Siemens, the Company is obligated to provide Siemens with a right of first refusal in the event the Company proposes a transaction that would constitute a change of control with, or primarily involving, a person in the hearing aid industry. The existence of this right may discourage a third party in the hearing aid industry from making a takeover offer which could be beneficial to HearUSA and its stockholders. In addition the term of our agreements with Siemens extend to February of 2015. The existence of these agreements could discourage a third party from making an offer to buy the Company that would be beneficial to the Company and its stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 