Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the management discussion and analysis set out below, contains or incorporates a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Act Exchange of 1934. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industry and markets in which we operate and management’s beliefs and assumptions. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact should be considered forward-looking statements and should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this report as well as the risk factors set forth below. The statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. HearUSA has a history of operating losses and may never be profitable. HearUSA has incurred net losses in each year since its organization. Our accumulated deficit at December 27, 2008 was approximately $116.4 million and at December 29, 2007 was approximately $113.0 million. We expect quarterly and annual operating results to fluctuate, depending primarily on the following factors: • Timing of product sales; • Level of consumer demand for our products; • Timing and success of new centers and acquired centers; and • Timing and amounts of payments by health insurance and managed care organizations. There can be no assurance that HearUSA will achieve profitability in the near or long term or ever. The current severe economic downturn is adversely affecting our sales. Our business is affected by general economic conditions. As the downturn in the economy affects consumer spending, our sales are affected directly because many consumers forego attending to their hearing health care or select lower cost hearing aids in order to conserve cash. This adversely affects our unit sales. A sustained downturn in the economy in our local areas of operations, as well as on the state, national and international levels, will adversely affect the performance of our centers and our network providers. We may not effectively compete in the hearing care industry. The hearing care industry is highly fragmented and barriers to entry are low. Approximately 9,000 practitioners provide testing and dispense products and services that compete with those sold and provided by HearUSA. We also compete with small retailers, as well as large networks of franchisees and distributors established by larger companies, such as those manufacturing and selling Miracle Ear and Beltone products. Some of the larger companies have far greater resources than HearUSA and could expand and/or change their operations to capture the market targeted by HearUSA. Large discount retailers, such as Costco Wholesale Corporation, also sell hearing aids and present a competitive threat in our markets. In addition, it is possible that the hearing care market could be effectively consolidated by the establishment of cooperatives, alliances or associations that could compete more successfully for the market targeted by us. We are dependent on manufacturers who may not perform. HearUSA is not a hearing aid manufacturer. We rely on major manufacturers to supply our hearing aids and to supply hearing enhancement devices. A significant disruption in supply from any or all of these manufacturers could materially adversely affect our business. Our strategic and financial relationship with Siemens Hearing Instruments, Inc. requires us to purchase from Siemens a significant portion of our requirements of hearing aids at specified prices for a period of seven years (December 2008 to February 2015). Although Siemens is the world’s largest manufacturer of hearing devices, there can be no assurance that Siemens’ technology and product line will remain desirable in the marketplace. Furthermore, if Siemens’ manufacturing capacity cannot keep pace with the demand of HearUSA and other customers, our business may be adversely affected. 10 We may not be able to access funds under our credit facility with Siemens if we cannot maintain compliance with the restrictive covenants contained therein and in our supply agreement with Siemens. HearUSA and Siemens Hearing Instruments Inc. are parties to a credit agreement pursuant to which HearUSA has obtained a $50 million secured credit facility from Siemens. As of December 27, 2008, an aggregate of approximately $47 million in loans was outstanding under the credit facility. To continue to access the credit facility, we are required to comply with the terms of the amended credit facility, including compliance with restrictive covenants. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with these covenants in the future and, accordingly, may be unable to access the funds provided under the credit facility. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, we may be found in default by Siemens and all loans would be immediately due and payable under the credit agreement. In addition, we have entered into a supply agreement with Siemens, which imposes certain purchase requirements on us. If we fail to comply with the supply agreement, Siemens may declare us in default under the credit agreement and all loans would be immediately due and payable. This would have a material adverse effect on our ability to do business. Current credit and financial market conditions could prevent or delay us from obtaining financing if our Siemens facility is unavailable to us, which would adversely affect our business, our operating results and financial condition. Due to the recent severe tightening of credit markets and concerns regarding the availability of credit around the world, we may not be able to obtain necessary financing if the Siemens facility becomes unavailable to us because of a default by us under that facility or any other reason. Current market conditions could severely limit our ability to access capital. Because our stock is has a low trading volume, we may not be able to access the equity market or may be limited in the amount of equity financing. If we need to obtain equity or debt financing, we may not be able to do so on satisfactory terms. This could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely on qualified audiologists, without whom our business may be adversely affected. HearUSA currently employs approximately 245 licensed hearing professionals, of whom approximately 179 are audiologists and 66, are licensed hearing aid specialists. If we are not able to attract and retain qualified audiologists, we will be less able to compete with networks of hearing aid retailers or with the independent audiologists who also sell hearing aids and our business may be adversely affected. Many audiologists are obtaining doctorate degrees, and the increased educational time required at the doctoral level is further restricting the pool of audiologists available for employment. We may not be able to maintain existing agreements or enter into new agreements with health insurance and managed care organizations, which may result in reduced revenues. HearUSA enters into provider agreements with health insurance companies and managed care organizations for the furnishing of hearing care in exchange for fees. The terms of most of these agreements are to be renegotiated annually, and these agreements may be terminated by either party, usually on 90 days or less notice at any time. There is no certainty that we will be able to maintain these agreements on favorable terms or at all. If we cannot maintain these contractual arrangements or enter into new arrangements, there will be a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. In addition, the early termination of or failure to renew the agreements that provide for payment to HearUSA on a per-patient-per-month basis would cause us to lower our estimates of revenues to be received over the life of the agreements. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We depend on our joint venture for our California operations and may not be able to attract sufficient patients to our California centers without it. HEARx West LLC, our joint venture with Kaiser Permanente, operates 32 full-service centers in California. Since their inception, HEARx West centers have derived approximately two-thirds of their revenues from sales to Kaiser Permanente members, including revenues through an agreement between the joint venture and Kaiser Permanente’s California division servicing its hearing benefited membership. If Kaiser Permanente does not perform its obligations under the agreement, or if the agreement is not renewed upon expiration, the loss of Kaiser patients in the HEARx West centers would adversely affect our business. In addition, HEARx West centers would be adversely affected by the loss of the ability to market to Kaiser members and promote the business within Kaiser’s medical centers, including the referral of potential customers by Kaiser. 11 We rely on the efforts and success of managed care companies that may not be achieved or sustained. Many managed care organizations, including some of those with whom we have contracts, have experienced and are continuing to experience significant difficulties arising from the widespread growth and reach of available plans and benefits. If the managed care organizations are unable to attract and retain covered members in our geographic markets, we may be unable to sustain the operations of our centers in those geographic areas. In addition, managed care organizations are subject to changes in federal legislation affecting healthcare. Administration changes in 2009 may have an effect on the way these organizations deliver services to their members. If these changes result in contract cancellations with these organizations, there can be no assurance that we can maintain all of our centers. We will close centers where warranted and such closures could have a material adverse effect on us. We may not be able to maintain accreditation, and our revenues may suffer. HearUSA had a three-year accreditation from the Joint Committee on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO) that ended in 2008. The Network PPO (preferred provider organization) accreditation by JCAHO is no longer available. Accordingly, the Company continued its distinctive quality assurance by undergoing health network accreditation through the Utilization Review Accreditation Commission (URAC). HearUSA is now accredited by URAC. There can be no assurance that URAC accreditation will provide the same quality assurance to the public as the JCAHO accreditation provided or that we can maintain our accreditation. If we are not able to maintain our accredited satus, our revenues may suffer. We are exposed to potential product and professional liability that could adversely affect us if a successful claim is made in excess of insurance policy limits. In the ordinary course of its business, HearUSA may be subject to product and professional liability claims alleging that products sold or services provided by the company failed or had adverse effects. We maintain liability insurance at a level which we believe to be adequate. A successful claim in excess of the policy limits of the liability insurance could materially adversely affect our business. As the distributor of products manufactured by others, we believe we would properly have recourse against the manufacturer in the event of a product liability claim. There can be no assurance, however, that recourse against a manufacturer by HearUSA would be successful, or that any manufacturer will maintain adequate insurance or otherwise be able to pay such liability. Risks Relating to HearUSA Common Stock The price of our common stock is volatile and could decline. The price of HearUSA common stock could fluctuate significantly, and you may be unable to sell your shares at a profit. There are significant price and volume fluctuations in the market generally that may be unrelated to our operating performance, but which nonetheless may adversely affect the market price for HearUSA common stock. The price of our common stock could change suddenly due to factors such as: • the amount of our cash resources and ability to obtain additional funding; • economic conditions in markets we are targeting; • fluctuations in operating results; • changes in government regulation of the healthcare industry; • failure to meet estimates or expectations of the market; and • rate of acceptance of hearing aid products in the geographic markets we are targeting. 12 Any of these conditions may cause the price of HearUSA common stock to fall, which may reduce business and financing opportunities available to us and reduce your ability to sell your shares at a profit, or at all. HearUSA might fail to maintain a listing for its common stock on the NYSE Amex, making it more difficult for stockholders to dispose of or to obtain accurate quotations as to the value of their HearUSA stock. HearUSA common stock is presently listed on the NYSE Amex. The NYSE Amex will consider delisting a company’s securities if, among other things, • the company fails to maintain stockholder’s equity of at least $2 million if the company has sustained losses from continuing operations or net losses in two of its three most recent fiscal years; • the company fails to maintain stockholder’s equity of $4 million if the company has sustained losses from continuing operations or net losses in three of its four most recent fiscal years; • the company fails to maintain stockholder’s equity of $6 million if the company has sustained losses from continuing operations or net losses in its five most recent fiscal years; or • the company has sustained losses which are so substantial in relation to its overall operations or its existing financial resources, or its financial condition has become so impaired that it appears questionable, in the opinion of the NYSE Amex, as to whether such issuer will be able to continue operations and/or meet its obligations as they mature. HearUSA may not be able to maintain its listing on the NYSE Amex, and there may be no public market for the HearUSA common stock. In the event that HearUSA common stock is delisted from the NYSE Amex, trading, if any, in the common stock would be conducted in the over-the-counter market. As a result, you would likely find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, your HearUSA common stock. If “penny stock” regulations apply to HearUSA common stock, you may not be able to sell or dispose of your shares. If HearUSA common stock is delisted from the NYSE Amex, the “penny stock” regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission might apply to transactions in the common stock. A “penny stock” generally includes any over-the-counter equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share. The Commission regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule prescribed by the Commission relating to the penny stock. A broker-dealer effecting transactions in penny stocks must make disclosures, including disclosure of commissions, and provide monthly statements to the customer with information on the limited market in penny stocks. These requirements may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in penny stocks. If the penny stock regulations were to become applicable to transactions in shares of HearUSA common stock, they could adversely affect your ability to sell or otherwise dispose of your shares. Exercise of outstanding HearUSA options and warrants could cause substantial dilution. As of December 27, 2008, outstanding warrants and options of HearUSA included: • Warrants to purchase approximately 2.5 million shares of common stock and • Options to purchase approximately 5.4 million shares of common stock. To the extent outstanding options or warrants are exercised or additional shares of capital stock are issued, stockholders will incur additional dilution. 13 Future sales of shares may depress the price of HearUSA common stock. If substantial stockholders sell shares of HearUSA common stock into the public market, or investors become concerned that substantial sales might occur, the market price of HearUSA common stock could decrease. Such a decrease could make it difficult for HearUSA to raise capital by selling stock or to pay for acquisitions using stock. In addition, HearUSA employees hold a significant number of options to purchase shares, many of which are presently exercisable. Employees may exercise their options and sell shares soon after such options become exercisable, particularly if they need to raise funds to pay for the exercise of such options or to satisfy tax liabilities that they may incur in connection with exercising their options. Because of the HearUSA rights agreement and the related rights plan for the exchangeable shares, a third party may be discouraged from making a takeover offer which could be beneficial to HearUSA and its stockholders. HearUSA has entered into a rights agreement with The Bank of New York, as rights agent. HEARx Canada Inc. has adopted a similar rights plan relating to the exchangeable shares of HEARx Canada Inc. issued in connection with the acquisition of Helix. The rights agreements contain provisions that could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring HearUSA or replacing members of the HearUSA board of directors, even if the acquisition or the replacements would be beneficial to HearUSA stockholders. The rights agreements could also result in reducing the price that certain investors might be willing to pay for HearUSA capital stock. Terms of our agreement with Siemens may discourage a third party from making a takeover offer which could be beneficial to HearUSA and its stockholders. Pursuant to the terms of the Investor Rights Agreement with Siemens, the Company is obligated to provide Siemens with a right of first refusal in the event the Company proposes a transaction that would constitute a change of control with, or primarily involving, a person in the hearing aid industry. The existence of this right may discourage a third party in the hearing aid industry from making a takeover offer which could be beneficial to HearUSA and its stockholders. Other Risks Relating to the Business of HearUSA We may not be able to obtain additional capital on reasonable terms, or at all, to fund our operations. If capital requirements vary from those currently planned or losses are greater than expected, HearUSA may require additional financing. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of convertible debt or equity securities, the percentage ownership of existing stockholders may be diluted, the securities issued may have rights and preferences senior to those of stockholders, and the terms of the securities may impose restrictions on operations. If adequate funds are not available on reasonable terms, or at all, we may be unable to take advantage of future opportunities to develop or enhance our business or respond to competitive pressures and possibly even to remain in business. Acquisitions or investments could negatively affect our operations and financial results or dilute the ownership percentage of our stockholders. We have implemented a strategic acquisition program. We may have to devote substantial time and resources in order to integrate completed acquisitions or complete potential acquisitions. We may not identify or complete acquisitions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all. Acquired operations may not be effectively integrated into our operations and may fail. In the event of any future acquisitions, HearUSA could: • issue additional stock that would further dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • incur debt; • assume unknown or contingent liabilities; or • experience negative effects on reported operating results from acquisition-related charges and amortization of acquired technology, goodwill and other intangibles. 14 These transactions involve numerous risks that could harm operating results and cause the price of HearUSA common stock price to decline, including: • potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations; • problems integrating the acquired business, including its information systems and personnel; • unanticipated costs that may harm operating results; • diversion of management’s attention from business concerns; and • adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers. Any of these risks could harm the business and operating results of HearUSA If the Company is required to write down goodwill and other intangible assets, the Company’s financial condition and results would be negatively affected. When the Company acquires a business, a substantial portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price which is allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired. As of December 27, 2008, goodwill of $66 million represented 276.0% of the Company’s total stockholders’ equity. As of December 27, 2008, other intangible assets, including customer files, non-competes and trade names, of $15.6 million represented 65% of the Company’s total stockholders’ equity. The Company accounts for goodwill in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“SFAS 142”), which addresses the financial accounting and reporting standards for the acquisition of intangible assets outside of a business combination and for goodwill and other intangible assets subsequent to their acquisition. This accounting standard requires that goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives no longer be amortized but instead be tested for impairment at least annually (or more frequently if impairment indicators arise). Other intangible assets will continue to be amortized over their useful lives. Under current accounting standards, if the Company determines goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, the Company will be required to write down these assets. Any write-down would have a negative effect on the consolidated financial statements. During the fourth quarter of 2008, there was a significant deterioration in the Company’s market capitalization which declined below the net book value. The decrease of the market capitalization below the net book value is a triggering event for an impairment test. Therefore the Company was required to perform the goodwill impairment test under SFAS 142 during the fourth quarter of 2008. Based upon this test, the Company concluded that the decline in market capitalization did not require the Company to recognize an impairment, See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies—Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets” found elsewhere in this report. If the market capitalization remains below the net book value, or other negative business factors exist as outlined in SFAS 142, the Company may be required to perform another goodwill impairment analysis, which could result in an impairment of up to the entire balance of the Company’s goodwill. Increased exposure to currency fluctuations could have adverse effects on our reported earnings. Most of HearUSA’s revenues and expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars. Some of our revenues and expenses are denominated in Canadian dollars and, therefore, we are exposed to fluctuations in the Canadian dollar. As a result, our earnings will be affected by increases or decreases in the Canadian dollar. Increases in the value of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar would tend to increase reported earnings (or reduce losses) in U.S. dollar terms, and decreases in the value of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar would tend to reduce reported earnings (or increase losses). 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 