Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following discussion of risks and uncertainties that we face in our business. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all, or part of your investment. Our growth depends on identifying drugs suitable for our drug delivery technologies and expanding our generic and branded drug operations. We believe that our growth depends on the identification of pharmaceutical products that are suitable for delivery using our proprietary technologies. Our principal drug delivery technology is our CPE-215 technology. This technology, like certain other drug delivery technologies, operates to increase the amount and rate of absorption of certain drugs across biological membranes. This technology does not operate independently and must be coupled with suitable pharmaceutical products in order to provide value. Consequently, our growth will depend to a great extent on identifying and commercializing these suitable drugs with respect to which we intend to expend significant resources and efforts. Identifying suitable 22 products is a lengthy and complex process that may not succeed. Even if identified, products may not be available to us or we may otherwise be unable to enter into licenses or other agreements for their use. In our efforts to identify suitable products, we compete with other drug delivery companies with greater research and development, financial, marketing and sales resources. If we do not effectively identify drugs to be used with our technologies, improve the delivery of drugs with our technologies and bring the improved drugs to commercial success, then we may not be able to continue our growth and we will be adversely affected. We intend to expend significant resources and efforts toward identifying and commercializing products and technologies to expand our generic and branded drug operations in Spain and to expand sales of these products outside Spain. Although we already manufacture and market generic and branded drugs in Spain, the growth of these operations in particular and the Company in general will depend to a great extent on identifying and commercializing additional such drugs for which we have existing capacity and infrastructure and, to a lesser extent, on increasing sales of existing products. Identifying and pursuing these new opportunities involves significant time and expense and we may not succeed. Even if identified, these products and technologies may not be commercially successful. Once identified, products to be manufactured and/or marketed by us under generic or branded names are subject to successful negotiation of acceptable economic and legal terms, and successful progress of the product through commercialization, as to which we cannot assure you. When expanding outside Spain, we expect to compete in new geographic areas which are governed by regulatory regimes that we have not operated under before. In these efforts, we compete with other pharmaceutical companies having generic and branded drug operations with greater financial, marketing and sales resources and experience in the geographic areas in which they operate. If we do not effectively identify generic and branded drugs and technologies and bring them to commercial success, then we will not be able to continue our growth and we will be adversely affected. The growth of our generic and branded operations may be adversely impacted by claims by others that our products infringe on the proprietary rights of their existing “brand-name” products. Companies that produce brand pharmaceutical products routinely bring litigation against companies who seek regulatory approval to manufacture and market generic forms of their branded products and may attempt to secure injunctions that will prevent the generic competitors from eroding their market share. These companies may allege patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights, which must be decided by the courts. Products using our technologies are in various stages of development and may not achieve commercial success. Independently as well as in conjunction with strategic partners, we are investigating the use of our technologies with respect to a variety of pharmaceutical compounds and products that are in various stages of development. We are unable to predict whether any of these products will receive regulatory approvals or be successfully developed, manufactured or commercialized. Further, due to the extended testing and regulatory review process required before marketing clearance can be obtained, the time periods before commercialization of any of these products are long and uncertain. Risks during development include the possibility that: • any or all of the proposed products will be found to be ineffective; • the proposed products will have adverse side effects or will otherwise fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals; • the proposed products may be effective but uneconomical to market; or • other pharmaceutical companies may market equivalent or superior products. 23 If medical doctors do not prescribe our products or the medical profession does not accept our products, our ability to grow our revenues will be limited. Our business is dependent on market acceptance of our products by physicians, hospitals, pharmacists, patients and the medical community. Willingness to prescribe our products depends on many factors, including: • perceived efficacy of our products; • convenience and ease of administration; • prevalence and severity of adverse side effects in both clinical trials and commercial use; • availability of alternative treatments; • cost effectiveness; • effectiveness of our marketing strategy and the pricing of our products; • publicity concerning our products or competing products; and • our ability to obtain third-party coverage or reimbursement. Even though regulatory approval has been received for Testim, and even if we receive regulatory approval and satisfy the above criteria for any other product candidates developed by us or incorporating our drug delivery technology, physicians may not prescribe these products if we do not promote the products effectively. Factors that could affect our success in marketing our products include: • the effectiveness of our sales force; • the effectiveness of our production, distribution and marketing capabilities; • the success of competing products; and • the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payors. If any of our products or product candidates fails to achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to market and sell the products successfully, which would limit our ability to generate revenue. We will rely on strategic partners to conduct clinical trials and commercialize products that use our drug delivery technologies. In light of our limited development resources and the significant time, expense, expertise and infrastructure necessary to bring new drugs and formulations from inception to market, we are particularly dependent on resources from third parties to commercialize products incorporating our technologies. Our strategy involves forming alliances with others to develop, manufacture, market and sell our products in the United States and other countries. We entered into an agreement with Perrigo Company in November 2004 and continue to pursue strategic partners for these purposes. We may not be successful in finding other strategic partners or in otherwise obtaining financing, in which case the development of our products would be delayed or curtailed. We must enter into agreements with strategic partners to conduct clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and sales necessary to commercialize product candidates. In addition, our ability to apply our drug delivery technologies to any proprietary drugs will depend on our ability to establish and maintain strategic partnerships or other collaborative arrangements with the holders of proprietary rights to such 24 drugs. Arrangements with strategic partners may be established through a single comprehensive agreement or may evolve over time through a series of discrete agreements, such as letters of intent, research agreements and license agreements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to establish such strategic partnerships or collaborative arrangements on favorable terms or at all or that any agreement entered into with a strategic partner will lead to further agreements or ultimately result in commercialization of a product. In collaborative arrangements, we will depend on the efforts of our strategic partners and will have limited participation in the development, manufacture, marketing and commercialization of the products subject to the collaboration. We cannot assure you that these strategic partnerships or collaborative arrangements will be successful, nor can we assure you that strategic partners or collaborators will not pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products on their own or with others, including our competitors. In addition, our collaborators or contract manufacturers may be subject to regulatory oversight which could delay or prohibit our development and commercialization efforts. Moreover, we could have disputes with our existing or future strategic partners or collaborators. Any such disagreements could lead to delays in the research, development or commercialization of potential products or could result in time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. If we are unable to meet our responsibilities under any of our agreements, we may lose potential business and be subject to penalties and other damages. We are a party to a number of agreements pursuant to which we are required to perform certain tasks in accordance with specified schedules such as manufacturing of products, timing and success of research and development goals, etc. Should we not meet these deadlines and requirements, our counterparties can take actions specified in these agreements which could substantially reduce the amount of revenues the Company would receive, or terminate the related agreements. Additionally, in accordance with the terms of these agreements, the Company may be forced to pay penalties or other damages to our counterparties for breaching these agreements. We expect to enter into additional agreements in the future. These agreements may impose various development, funding or other obligations on us. If we breach any of these obligations, the counterparty may have the right to terminate the agreement or seek other remedies, which could significantly reduce expected profits to the Company. Disputes may arise with respect to agreements regarding the manufacturing, development and commercialization of any products, including products which incorporate our intellectual property. These disputes could lead to delays in commercialization of products incorporating our technologies or termination of the agreements. A significant portion of our revenues are generated by the sale of products formulated from one active ingredient. Spanish sales from our omeprazole product line accounted for approximately 18% and 22% of our consolidated total revenues in 2005 and 2004, respectively. The active pharmaceutical ingredient for our omeprazole products is currently purchased from one supplier. If we lose and cannot effectively replace our supplier or are otherwise unable to continue the sales of our omeprazole products, our revenues would decline significantly. 25 Pharmaceutical pricing, changes in third-party reimbursement and governmental mandates are uncertain and may adversely affect us. Our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected by the continuing efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare. A substantial portion of our operations consists of marketing and manufacturing, primarily in Spain and other parts of Europe generic and branded pharmaceutical products. The use of generic drugs is regulated in Spain, the U.S. and many other countries, and is subject to many changing and competing public policy considerations. In addition, in certain markets, such as Spain, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control through reimbursement limitations. Specifically, prices for prescription pharmaceutical products in Spain must be approved by Spain’s Ministry of Health. In order to help control rising healthcare costs, the Ministry of Health, in recent years, has encouraged the substitution of generic-equivalent products. In further efforts to reduce healthcare costs, the Ministry of Health had been contemplating new laws and regulations that would significantly reduce the market prices of certain pharmaceutical products, including generic-equivalent drugs. For example, in late October 2003, the Spanish government enacted a regulation that reduced the prices that the government reimbursed for certain prescription pharmaceutical products. The regulation affected six of our chemical entities sold in Spain, including the chemical entities omeprazole, simvastatin and enalapril, which reduced our 2004 revenues by approximately $13.8 million. Spain’s Council of Ministers has recently forwarded to Parliament a proposed medicines bill. The proposed bill states that when a doctor writes a prescription by active ingredient, rather than brand name, the pharmacist would dispense the lowest-priced product. If several products have equally low prices, the pharmacist should favor the generic product. If approved, all drugs which have been reimbursed for at least ten years, or eleven years if they have gained a new indication, would be placed into a reference-price group with products containing the same active pharmaceutical ingredients and delivery form. The reference price would be calculated as an average of the three lowest prices in the group. Where the reference price would result in price cuts of more than 30% to a product, companies would be able to reduce the price of that product gradually. Where a brand has held a marketing authorization for at least ten years, its current price would be cut by 20%, providing an equivalent generic product is at a lower price in another European Union member state. Any product priced below €2.00 (or approximately $2.40) would be exempt from the reference price provisions. We cannot assure you whether this proposal may be enacted in some form, if at all, or the impact it may have if enacted. Successful commercialization of many of our products, including those using our permeation technologies as well as our generic and branded products, may depend on the availability of reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatment from third-party healthcare payors, such as the government, private insurance plans and managed care organizations. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price of medical products and services. Such reimbursement may not be available for any of our products at all or for the duration of the recommended treatment with a drug, which could materially adversely affect our ability to commercialize that drug. The increasing emphasis on managed care in the U.S. continues to increase the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing. Some governmental agencies, including those in Spain, can compel companies to continue to produce products that are not profitable for the company due to insufficient supply. In the U.S., there have been a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar government controls. We anticipate that there will continue to be a number of proposals in the U.S., as has been the case in many foreign markets. The announcement or adoption of such proposals could adversely affect us. Further, our ability to commercialize our products may be adversely affected to the extent that such proposals materially adversely affect the business, financial condition and profitability of companies that are prospective strategic partners. The cost of healthcare in Spain, the U.S. and elsewhere continues to be a subject of investigation and action by various governmental agencies. Certain resulting legislative proposals may adversely affect 26 us. For example, governmental actions to further reduce or eliminate reimbursement for drugs may directly diminish our markets. In addition, legislative safety and efficacy measures may be invoked that lengthen and increase the costs of drug approval processes. Further, social, economic and other broad policy legislation may induce unpredictable changes in the healthcare environment. We cannot assure you whether any of these measures may be enacted in some form, if at all, or the impact they may have if enacted. If our clinical trials fail, we will be unable to market products. Any human pharmaceutical product developed by us would require clearance by the FDA for sales in the United States, by Spain’s Ministry of Health for sales in Spain and by comparable regulatory agencies for sales in other countries. In the case of non-generic products, the process of conducting clinical trials and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals is lengthy and expensive and we cannot be assured of success. In order to obtain FDA approval of any new product candidates using our technologies, an NDA must be submitted to the FDA demonstrating that the product candidate, based on preclinical research, animal studies and human clinical trials, is safe for humans and effective for its intended use. Positive results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials do not ensure positive results in more advanced clinical trials designed to permit application for regulatory approval. We may suffer significant setbacks in clinical trials, even in cases where earlier clinical trials show promising results. Any of our new product candidates may produce undesirable side effects in humans that could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of a product candidate. We, the FDA or other regulatory authorities, may suspend our clinical trials at any time if we or they believe the trial participants face unacceptable health risks or if they find deficiencies in any of our regulatory submissions. Other factors that can cause delay or terminate our clinical trials include: • slow or insufficient patient enrollment; • slow recruitment and completion of necessary institutional approvals at clinical sites; • longer treatment time required to demonstrate efficacy; • lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate; • adverse medical reactions or side effects in treated patients; • lack of effectiveness of the product candidate being tested; • regulatory requests for additional clinical trials; and • instability of the pharmaceutical formulations. Our patent positions and intended proprietary or similar protections are uncertain. We have filed numerous patent applications and have been granted licenses to, or have acquired, a number of patents. We cannot assure you, however, that our pending applications will be issued as patents or that any of our issued or licensed patents will afford adequate protection to us or our licensees. We cannot determine the ultimate scope and validity of patents that are now owned by or may be granted to third parties, the extent to which we may wish, or be required, to acquire rights under such patents or the cost or availability of such rights. In the event that patent protection for technologies expire, or are not extended, revenues derived from such technologies may be reduced significantly. Competitors may interfere with our patent process in a variety of ways. Competitors may claim that they invented the claimed invention prior to us. Competitors also may claim that we are infringing their 27 patents, interfering with or preventing the use of our technologies. Competitors also may contest our patents by showing the patent examiner that the invention was not original, was not novel or was obvious. A competitor could claim that our issued patents are not valid for a variety of other reasons as well. If a person claims we infringe their technology, we could face a number of consequences, including lawsuits, which take significant time and can be very expensive, payment of substantial damages for infringement, prohibition from selling or licensing the product unless the patent holder licenses the patent to us, or reformulation, if possible, of the product so it does not infringe, which could require substantial time and expense. Examples of the risk of infringement claims are the different legal proceedings commenced against us in Madrid by Merck & Co. Inc. and its Spanish subsidiary, GlaxoSmithKline S.A. and its Spanish subsidiaries, and Ethypharm S.A. and its Spanish subsidiaries, in each case alleging that we violated their respective patents. As discussed in more detail in “Item 3—Legal Proceedings” we cannot assure you that similar actions will not be brought against us, or that these actions or any such similar actions will not have an adverse effect on us. We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary technologies and continuing technological innovations in the development and commercialization of our products. We cannot assure you that others will not independently develop the same or similar technologies or obtain access to our proprietary technologies. It is unclear whether our trade secrets will be protected under law. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees or consultants may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Our employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information have entered into or are subject to confidentiality arrangements with us and have agreed to disclose and assign to us any ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions that arise from their activities for us. We cannot assure you, however, that others may not acquire or independently develop similar technologies or, if effective patents in applicable countries are not issued with respect to our products or technologies, that we will be able to maintain information pertinent to such research as proprietary technologies or trade secrets. Enforcing a claim that another person has illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets, like patent litigation, is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, we may be subject to the jurisdiction of courts outside the U.S., some of which may be less willing to protect trade secrets. Regulatory approvals must be obtained and maintained for products incorporating our technologies and, if approvals are delayed or withdrawn, we will be unable to commercialize these products. Government regulations in the United States, Spain and other countries have a significant impact on our business and affect the research and development, manufacture and marketing of products incorporating our technologies. In the United States, Spain and other countries, governmental agencies have the authority to regulate the distribution, manufacture and sale of drugs. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can, among other things, result in fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecution. In addition, governmental regulations may be established that could prevent, delay, modify or rescind regulatory approval of our products. Our business will suffer if we fail to comply with federal regulations and rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission and New York Stock Exchange relating to corporate governance reform. As a public company, we are subject to certain federal regulations and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 required more stringent accounting, corporate fraud and securities laws. To implement this legislation, 28 the Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted new rules and may adopt additional rules pertaining to, among other things, additional disclosure and reporting requirements, including requirements relating to internal control procedures. The New York Stock Exchange has also adopted various rules relating to corporate governance. Our reputation and financial results could be materially harmed by any failure by us to comply with any current or future rules or regulations relating to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or to any other federal corporate or stock exchange reform measures. Sustained compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may require a reallocation of resources that would otherwise be dedicated to operating our business. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposed significant new administrative burdens on publicly traded companies. We have incured significant incremental costs in complying with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We cannot assure you that these additional costs will result in any increase in revenue or that they will not have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, because we are a small company with relatively few employees, the individuals responsible for complying with the statutory and regulatory requirements also have responsibility for business matters. As a result, our business may suffer if these individuals are forced to spend a disproportionate amount of time on compliance matters. Implementation of new information systems could cause business interruptions and negatively affect our profitability and cash flows. We recently implemented a new inventory warehouse system to enhance operational efficiencies and provide more effective management of our logistics. This implementation enabled us to better meet the challenges related to our continued growth and the needs of our customers. We also plan to upgrade and replace certain of our financial systems to help enable us to meet the new challenges of the new regulatory environment including regulations imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We expect that, over time, new systems will result in improved business processes and increased operating efficiencies. As our employees become familiar with the new systems, we expect that some errors may occur, some of which could adversely impact our business and financial results. There can be no assurance that the systems will perform as expected or that the anticipated improvements in business processes and operating efficiencies will be achieved. In the event of serious system malfunctions or deficiencies, we might experience business interruptions, which could adversely impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If we are unable to obtain marketing approvals to sell our products in countries other than Spain, we may not be able to obtain additional revenues from sales in those countries. We cannot assure you that products that have obtained marketing approval in Spain will be approved for marketing elsewhere. If we are unable to obtain marketing approval for our products in countries other than Spain, we may not be able to obtain additional revenues from sales in those countries. We must comply with Good Manufacturing Practices in the production of pharmaceutical products. Any manufacturing facility for pharmaceutical products to be marketed in the United States is subject to FDA inspection and inspections by other government agencies both before and after approval of an 29 NDA to determine compliance with the FDA’s GMPs requirements, as well as local, state and other federal regulations. Manufacturing facilities for our compounds to be marketed in European countries and elsewhere are also subject to European Union and/or other applicable GMP regulations. Facilities used to produce our compounds may not achieve or maintain compliance with GMP or other requirements. The GMP regulations are complex and, if we fail to comply with them, it could lead to rejection or delay of an NDA or comparable application. Any delay in approval of an NDA or comparable application would delay product launch. Violation of GMP requirements after approval of an NDA or comparable application, could result in remedial action, penalties and/or delays in production. We have only one manufacturing facility that can be used to manufacture our pharmaceutical products for sale to others. We have only one manufacturing facility that can be used to manufacture active pharmaceutical ingredients for sale to others. All of our manufactured pharmaceutical products are manufactured in one factory in Zaragoza, Spain. Although we have constructed the factory with redundant lines for our most significant products that are in separate areas of the factory, and installed a fire suppression system, the destruction of the factory by a fire or other catastrophe would have a material impact on our revenues until we are able to rebuild the factory or secure an alternative manufacturing site. Similarly, all of our manufactured active pharmaceutical ingredients are manufactured in one factory in Zaragoza, Spain. A fire or other catastrophe would have a material impact on our revenues until we are able to rebuild the factory or secure an alternative manufacturing site. We operate a significant portion of our business in, and plan to expand further into, markets outside the United States, which subjects us to additional business risks. During the year ended December 31, 2005, 72% of our revenues were derived from sales made by our Spanish subsidiaries in Spain and 22% of our revenues were derived from sales made by our Spanish subsidiaries to customers in other foreign countries. We believe that the most substantial portion of our revenues will continue to be derived from sales in foreign countries. Conducting business internationally subjects us to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: • unexpected delays or changes in regulatory requirements; • difficulties and costs related to complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties; • delays and expenses associated with tariffs and other trade barriers; • restrictions on and impediments to repatriation of our funds and our customers’ ability to make payments to us; • political and economic instability; • acts of terrorism or war; • difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing international operations and implementing, maintaining and improving financial controls; • dependence upon independent sales representatives and other indirect resellers who may not be as effective and reliable as our employees; • inadequate or uncertain protection of intellectual property in foreign countries; 30 • increased difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries; • adverse tax consequences or overlapping tax structures; and • limitations on the remittance of dividends by foreign subsidiaries. Currency fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our revenues may be impacted by fluctuations in local currencies due to the fact that 94% of our revenues currently are generated by our Spanish subsidiaries, Laboratorios Belmac, Laboratorios Davur, Laboratorios Rimafar and Bentley API. Fluctuations in the value of the Euro, in relation to the U.S. Dollar had a significant impact on our operations during the interim periods of 2005, but did not have a significant effect on our operations during the year ended December 31, 2005. We do not currently engage in foreign exchange hedging transactions to manage our foreign currency exposure because much of our expenditures are in the same currency as our revenues. Our foreign operations expose us to a number of currency related risks, including the following: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • limitations on the conversion of foreign currency; and • fluctuations of the carrying value of long lived assets. If we cannot keep pace with rapid technological change and meet the intense competition in our industry, we may not succeed. Our success depends, in part, on achieving and maintaining a competitive position in the development of products and technologies in a rapidly evolving industry. If we are unable to continue to develop and/or acquire competitive products and technologies, our current and potential strategic partners may choose to adopt the drug delivery technologies of our competitors. We also compete generally with other drug delivery, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies engaged in the development of alternative drug delivery technologies or new drug research and testing. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, manufacturing, marketing, managerial and research and development resources and experience than we do and represent significant competition for us. Our competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies or obtaining governmental approval for products before we achieve success, if at all. The products of our competitors may gain market acceptance more rapidly than our products. Developments by competitors may render our existing or proposed products noncompetitive or obsolete. Our competitive positions in our generic and branded drug operations as well as with our drug delivery technologies are uncertain and subject to risks. In Spain, and in other countries, we must demonstrate bioequivalence of our generic products, which may be challenged by branded and other generic competitors as well as regulatory authorities. In order to demonstrate bioequivalence of our generic products, we must show that the rate and extent of absorption and levels of concentration of our generic products are not statistically different from innovators’ products that have previously been approved by the regulatory authorities of the respective country, when administered at the same dosage level under similar clinical conditions. The competitive position of our drug delivery technologies is subject to the possible development by others of superior technologies. Other drug delivery technologies, including oral and injection methods, 31 have wide acceptance, notwithstanding certain drawbacks, and are the subject of improvement efforts by other entities having greater resources. In addition, our drug delivery technologies are limited by the number and commercial magnitude of drugs with which they can successfully be combined. We may be unable to meet increasing expenses and demands on our resources from future growth, if any, or to effectively pursue additional business opportunities. We routinely consider acquisition and investment opportunities, although we have no current agreements or commitments with respect to any acquisitions or investments. Any future acquisitions or investments would further challenge our resources. If we do not properly meet the increasing expenses and demands on our resources from future growth, we will be adversely affected. To properly manage our growth, we must, among other things, implement additional and improve existing administrative, financial, marketing, operational and research and development systems, procedures and controls on a timely basis. We may also need to expand our staff in these and other areas. We may not be able to complete the improvements to our systems, procedures and controls necessary to support our future operations in a timely manner. We may not be able to hire, train, integrate, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, successfully integrate acquisitions or investments, nor successfully identify, manage and pursue existing and potential market opportunities. We plan to invest approximately $22.6 million in capital expenditures during the year ending December 31, 2006, including $10.0 million that was budgeted in 2005, but now planned for 2006. We plan to expand our API manufacturing facility, expand our pharmaceutical product manufacturing facility and add new production lines in order to be able to accommodate the level of operations and growth that is anticipated as a result of the Company’s expansion beyond the borders of Spain and the U.S. market. We plan to finance these expenditures from a combination of cash flow from operations, borrowings, and existing cash balances. If we fail to generate additional revenue in excess of increased operating expenses in any fiscal period, we may incur losses. Our operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to raise or obtain needed funding. Substantial time and financial and other resources will be required to complete ongoing development and clinical testing of our proprietary products. Regulatory efforts and collaborative arrangements also will be necessary for our products that are currently under development and testing in order for them to be marketed. Assuming we continue our operations as presently conducted, we believe that we have sufficient working capital to meet our needs for at least the next twenty-four months. However our revenues from operations and cash may not be sufficient over the next several years for commercializing all of the products we are currently developing. Consequently, we may seek strategic partners for various phases of development, marketing and commercialization of product candidates employing our technologies. Further, we cannot assure you as to the sufficiency of our resources or the time required to complete any ongoing development and clinical testing, since the extent to which we conduct such testing is dependent on resource allocation decisions that we make from time to time based on numerous financial as well as operational conditions. In addition to development and other costs, we expect to incur capital expenditures from time to time. These capital expenditures will be influenced by our regulatory compliance efforts, our success, if any, at developing collaborative arrangements with strategic partners, our needs for additional facilities and capital equipment and the growth, if any, of our business in general. There can be no assurance that we will receive additional funding on favorable terms if at all, or that we will be successful in attracting strategic partners. If we cannot raise funds or engage strategic partners on acceptable terms when needed, we may not be able to continue our research and development activities, develop or enhance our products and services, 32 take advantage of future opportunities, grow our business or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. If we undertake an acquisition, we will incur a variety of costs, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. One of our strategies for business expansion is the acquisition of additional technologies, products and product candidates. We may attempt to acquire these product candidates, or other potentially beneficial technologies, through the acquisition of businesses, services or products that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. Although we currently have no commitments or agreements with respect to any acquisitions, if we undertake an acquisition, the process of integrating the acquired business, technology, service or product may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may divert significant management attention from our ongoing business operations. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition for a variety of reasons such as an acquired technology or product candidate proving to not be safe or effective in later clinical trials. We may fund any future acquisition by issuing equity or debt securities, which could dilute your ownership percentage or limit our financial or operating flexibility as a result of restrictive covenants related to new debt. Acquisition efforts can consume significant management attention and require substantial expenditures, which could detract from our other programs. In addition, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions that are never completed. If we do not successfully manage our growth, our business goals may not be achieved. Expansion has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. To manage further growth, we will be required to continue to improve existing, and implement additional, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and hire, train and manage additional employees. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our anticipated growth and we may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel. Our failure to manage growth effectively could limit our ability to achieve our business goals. 33 If we cannot attract and retain key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business plan as anticipated. Our success is dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified, experienced personnel. We face significant competition in recruiting competent personnel. Because the location of our headquarters is in an area with relatively few pharmaceutical companies recruiting candidates has been more difficult, as many candidates prefer to work in places with a broad pharmaceutical industry presence. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to attract and retain additional, competent employees, could adversely affect our business and financial results. We have assigned many key responsibilities within our company to, and are dependent on, a relatively small number of individuals. If we lose the services of our Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Medical Officer, or the Managing Director of European Subsidiaries, our ability to execute our business plan in the manner we currently anticipate would be adversely affected. We maintain key person life insurance only for our Chief Executive Officer and President. We have an employment agreement with each of our key personnel. We may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products in response to product liability claims. The testing and marketing of medical products entails an inherent risk of product liability. We may be held liable to the extent that there are any adverse reactions from the use of our products. Some of our products involve new methods of delivery for drugs, some of which may require precautions to prevent unintended use, especially since they are designed for patients’ self-use rather than being administered by medical professionals. The FDA may require us to develop a comprehensive risk management program for our products. The failure of these measures could result in harmful side effects or death. As a result, consumers, regulatory agencies, pharmaceutical companies or others might make claims against us. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities, lose market share or be required to limit commercialization of our products. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could inhibit or prevent the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop alone or with corporate collaborators. We maintain product liability insurance in the amount of €3 million (approximately $3.6 million U.S. Dollars) and clinical trial insurance in connection with our clinical testing activities in various amounts on a study-by-study basis. While management believes that this insurance is reasonable, we cannot assure you that any of this coverage will be adequate to protect us in the event of a claim. We, or any corporate collaborators, may not be able to obtain or maintain insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. Even if our agreements with any future corporate collaborators entitle us to indemnification against losses, such indemnification may not be available or adequate if any claim arises. Our agreement with Perrigo Company requires us to secure product liability insurance equal to $10 million upon commercialization of the product being developed. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure such an amount of coverage at a reasonable cost or at all or that if secured, that it will be adequate to protect us in the event of a claim. Our revenues, operating results and cash flows may fluctuate in future periods and we may fail to meet investor expectations, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Variations in our quarterly and year-end operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period. If our sales or operating results fall below the expectations 34 of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. In addition to the other factors discussed under these “Risk Factors,” specific factors that may cause fluctuations in our operating results include: • demand and pricing for our products, including changes in wholesaler purchasing; • government or private healthcare reimbursement policies; • physician, pharmacy and patient acceptance of any of our current or future products; • patterns or cost structures for our products; • introduction of competing products, including generics; • any interruption in the manufacturing or distribution of Testim or any of our future products; • our operating expenses which fluctuate due to growth of our business; • timing and size of any new product or technology acquisitions we may complete; and • variations in our rates of product returns and allowances. Forecasting our revenues is complicated by difficulties in estimating inventory levels at our wholesalers and pharmacies, the timing of purchases by wholesalers and retailers to replenish inventory and the occurrence and amount of product returns. Your percentage of ownership and voting power and the price of our common stock may decrease as a result of events that increase the number of our outstanding shares. As of December 31, 2005, we had the following capital structure: No. of Shares Common Stock outstanding 21,923,142 Common stock issuable upon: Exercise of options which are outstanding 3,916,378 Exercise of options which are available for grant 438,029 Total common stock outstanding assuming exercise of all of the above 26,277,549 As of December 31, 2005, we had outstanding options to purchase 3,916,378 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $2.00 to $15.83 (exercisable at a weighted average of $8.72 per share), of which 3,076,253 were then vested and exercisable. We may conduct future offerings of our common stock or other securities with rights to convert the securities into shares of our common stock. Exercise of our outstanding options into shares of our common stock may significantly and negatively affect the market price for our common stock as well as decrease your percentage ownership and voting power. 35 Our stock price is volatile. The market prices for our securities and for securities of emerging growth companies have historically been highly volatile. During the two years ended March 10, 2006, the price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $22.90 to a low of $6.50. Future announcements concerning us or our competitors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Factors which may affect our market price include: • progress of our relationships with strategic partners; • results of clinical studies and regulatory reviews; • technological innovations by us or our competitors; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical, drug delivery and biotechnology industries; • effect of regulatory authorities on pricing of products; • competitive products; • financings; • sales or the possibility of sales of our common stock; • our results of operations and financial condition; • proprietary rights; • public concern as to the safety or commercial value of our products; and • general economic conditions. These uncertainties may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuation unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Delaware law and provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and stockholder rights plan may prevent or discourage third parties or stockholders from attempting to replace the management of the Company. As a Delaware company, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, as amended, which is a statutory provision intended to discourage certain takeover attempts that are not approved by the board of directors. Section 203 prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder subject to certain exceptions. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that also may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control or an unsolicited acquisition proposal that a stockholder might consider favorable. Our board of directors is divided into three classes with staggered three-year terms, which makes it more difficult for an acquiror to change the overall composition of the board in a short period of time. The affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of our outstanding shares is required to approve a merger, a sale or lease of all or substantially all of our assets, certain other business combinations or dissolution or liquidation, and an affirmative vote of two-thirds of our outstanding shares is 36 required to amend or repeal any provision in our certificate of incorporation relating to our directors and officers as well as certain other provisions in our certificate of incorporation. Additionally, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series with the rights, obligations and preferences of each series to be determined by our board without stockholder approval. Our staggered board, the super-majority voting provisions and the potential issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, preventing or discouraging third parties or stockholders from attempting to replace our management. To the same potential effect, we have a stockholder rights plan designed to prevent a potential acquirer from gaining control of us without adequately compensating our shareholders and to protect us from coercive takeover attempts. The rights will become exercisable only if any person or group of affiliated persons beneficially acquires 15% or more of our common stock. Under certain circumstances, each holder of a right (other than the person or group who acquired 15% or more of our common stock) is entitled to purchase a defined number of shares of our common stock at 50% of its market price at the time that the right becomes exercisable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 