ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements contained in this report are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding the expectations, beliefs, intentions or strategies regarding the future. Without limiting the foregoing, the words “anticipates,” “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “plans” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The company intends that all forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Although the company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that such assumptions are correct or that these expectations will be achieved. Such assumptions involve important risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect results in the future. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those relating to weather conditions and commodity prices, which could affect certain of the company’s primary markets, such as agriculture and construction and oil and gas well drilling; or changes in competition, 6 Table of Contents raw material availability, technology or relationships with the company’s largest customers any of which could adversely impact any of the company’s product lines, as well as other risks described below. The foregoing list is not exhaustive and the company disclaims any obligation to subsequently revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANY The company operates in markets that involve significant risks, many of which are beyond the company’s control. Based on current information, the company believes that the following identifies the most significant risk factors that could affect its businesses. However, the risks and uncertainties the company faces are not limited to those discussed below. There could be other unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive or regulatory factors, including factors that the company currently believes to be immaterial, that could have material adverse effects on the company’s financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Weather conditions could affect certain of the company’s markets such as agriculture and construction. The company’s Applied Technology Division is largely dependent on the ability of farmers and agricultural subcontractors known as custom operators to purchase agricultural equipment that includes its products. If such farmers experience adverse weather conditions resulting in poor growing conditions, or experience unfavorable crop prices or expenses, potential buyers may be less likely to purchase agricultural equipment. Accordingly, weather conditions may adversely affect sales in the Applied Technology Division. Weather conditions can also adversely affect sales in the company’s Engineered Films Division. To the extent weather conditions curtail construction activity, sales of the segment’s plastic sheeting will likely decrease. Price fluctuations in and shortages of raw materials could have a significant impact on the company’s ability to sustain and grow earnings. The company’s Engineered Films Division (EFD) consumes significant amounts of plastic resin, the costs of which primarily reflect market prices for natural gas. These prices are subject to worldwide supply and demand as well as other factors beyond the control of the company. Although EFD is sometimes able to pass such price increases to its customers, significant variations in the cost of plastic resins can affect the company’s operating results from period to period. Unusual supply disruptions, such as caused by a natural disaster, could cause suppliers to invoke “force majeure” clauses in their supply agreements, causing shortages of material. Success in offsetting higher raw material costs with price increases is largely influenced by competitive and economic conditions and could vary significantly depending on the market served. If the company is not able to fully offset the effects of material availability and costs, financial results could be adversely affected. Electronic components, used by both the Applied Technology Division and Electronic Systems Division, are sometimes in short supply, impacting our ability to meet customer demand. If a supplier of raw materials or components were unable to deliver due to shortage or financial difficulty, any of the company’s segments could be adversely affected. Fluctuations in commodity prices can increase our costs and decrease our sales. Agricultural income levels are affected by agricultural commodity prices and input costs. As a result, changes in commodity prices that reduce agricultural income levels could have a negative effect on the ability of growers and their contractors to purchase the company’s precision agriculture products manufactured by its Applied Technology Division. Exploration for oil and natural gas fluctuates with their price. Plastic sheeting manufactured and sold by our Engineered Films Division is sold as pit and pond liners to contain water used in the drilling process. Lower prices for oil and natural gas could reduce exploration activities and demand for our products. Plastic sheeting manufacture uses plastic resins which are subject to change in price as the cost of natural gas changes. Accordingly, volatility in oil and natural gas prices may negatively affect our cost of goods sold or cause us to change prices, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Failure to develop and market new technologies and products could impact the company’s competitive position and have an adverse effect on the company’s financial results. The company’s operating results in its Applied Technology and to a lesser extent, its Engineered Films and Aerostar segments, are largely dependent on the ability to renew the pipeline of new products and to bring those products to market. This ability could be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in product development such as the inability to identify viable new products, successfully complete research and development, obtain relevant regulatory approvals, obtain intellectual property protection, or 7 Table of Contents gain market acceptance of new products and services. Because of the lengthy development process, technological challenges and intense competition, there can be no assurance that any of the products the company is currently developing, or could begin to develop in the future, will achieve substantial commercial success. In addition, sales of the company’s new products could replace sales of some of its current products, offsetting the benefit of even a successful product introduction. The company’s Electronic Systems Division is dependent on a small number of customers and faces competitive risks. The company’s Electronic Systems Division (ESD) is dependent on a small number of customers with the top customer representing over half of ESD sales. Accordingly, the ESD segment is dependent on the continued growth, viability and financial stability of its customers, which consist of original equipment manufacturers of avionics, consumer beds and secure telecommunication equipment. Future sales are dependent on the success of the company’s customers, some of which operate in businesses associated with rapid technological change and consequent product obsolescence. Developments adverse to major customers or their products, or the failure of a major customer to pay for components or services, could have an adverse effect on the performance of ESD. Further, ESD competes against many providers of electronics manufacturing services. Certain competitors have substantially greater resources and more geographically diversified international operations than ESD. This segment may also be at a competitive disadvantage with respect to price when compared to manufacturers with lower cost structures, particularly those with more offshore facilities located where labor and other costs are lower. The company also faces competition from the manufacturing operations of current and future customers, who are continually evaluating the merits of manufacturing products internally against the advantages of outsourcing to electronics manufacturing services providers. Accordingly, to compete effectively, ESD must continue to provide technologically advanced manufacturing services, maintain strict quality standards, respond flexibly and rapidly to customers’ design and schedule changes and deliver products globally on a reliable basis at competitive prices. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production. Start-up costs and inefficiencies related to new or transferred programs can adversely affect operating results and such costs may not be recoverable if such new programs or transferred programs are cancelled. The company’s Aerostar segment depends on the U.S. government for a significant portion of its sales, creating uncertainty in the timing of and funding for projected contracts. A significant portion of Aerostar’s sales are to the U.S. government or U.S. government agencies as a prime or sub-contractor. Government spending has historically been cyclical. A decrease in U.S. government defense or near-space research spending or changes in spending allocation could result in one or more of the company’s programs being reduced, delayed or terminated. Reductions in the company’s existing programs, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could adversely affect its ability to sustain and grow its future sales and earnings. The company’s U.S. government sales are funded by the federal budget, which operates on an October-to-September fiscal year. Changes in congressional schedules, negotiations for program funding levels or unforeseen world events can interrupt the funding for a program or contract. Funds for multi-year contracts can be changed in subsequent years in the appropriations process. In addition, the U.S. government has increasingly relied on indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contracts and other procurement vehicles that are subject to a competitive bidding and funding process even after the award of the basic contract, adding an additional element of uncertainty to future funding levels. Delays in the funding process or changes in funding can impact the timing of available funds or can lead to changes in program content or termination at the government’s convenience. The loss of anticipated funding or the termination of multiple or large programs could have an adverse effect on the company’s future sales and earnings. The company derives a portion of its revenues from foreign markets, which subjects the company to risk of changes in government policies and laws or worldwide economic conditions. The company’s sales outside the U.S. were $25 million in fiscal 2011. The company’s financial results could be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of U.S. and non-U.S. governments, agencies and similar organizations. These conditions include, but are not limited to, changes in a country’s or region’s economic or political conditions; trade regulations affecting production, pricing and marketing of products; local labor conditions and regulations; reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; changes in the regulatory or legal environment; restrictions on currency exchange activities; burdensome taxes and tariffs and other trade barriers. International risks and uncertainties, including changing social and economic conditions as well as terrorism, political hostilities and war, could lead to reduced sales and reduced profitability associated with such sales. Adverse economic conditions in the major industries the company serves may materially affect segment performance and consolidated results of operations. The company’s results of operations are impacted by the market fundamentals of the primary industries served. Significant declines of economic activity in the agricultural, oil and gas exploration, construction, industrial, aerospace/aviation, communication, defense and other major markets served may adversely affect segment performance and consolidated results of operations. 8 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 