Item 1A. Risk Factors The company operates in markets that involve significant risks, many of which are beyond the company’s control. Based on current information, the company believes that the following identifies the most significant risk factors that could affect its businesses. However, the risks and uncertainties the company faces are not limited to those discussed below. There could be other unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive or regulatory factors, including factors that the company currently believes to be immaterial, that could have material adverse effects on the company’s financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Weather conditions could affect certain of the company’s markets such as agriculture and construction. The company’s Flow Controls Division is largely dependent on the ability of farmers and growers to purchase the agricultural equipment that includes our products. If such growers and farmers experience adverse weather conditions resulting in poor growing conditions, particularly in North America, they may be less likely to purchase agricultural equipment. Accordingly, poor weather conditions may adversely affect sales in our Flow Controls Division. Poor weather conditions can also adversely affect sales in the company’s Engineered Films Division. To the extent weather conditions curtail construction activity, sales of the segment’s plastic sheeting will likely decrease. Price fluctuations in and shortages of raw materials could have a significant impact on the company’s ability to sustain and grow earnings. 6 Table of Contents The company’s Engineered Films Division (EFD) consumes significant amounts of plastic resin, the costs of which primarily reflect market prices for natural gas. These prices are subject to worldwide supply and demand as well as other factors beyond the control of the company. Although EFD is sometimes able to pass such price increases to its customers, significant variations in the cost of plastic resins can affect the company’s operating results from period to period. Unusual supply disruptions, such as caused by a natural disaster, could cause suppliers to invoke “force majure” clauses in their supply agreements, causing shortages of material. Success in offsetting higher raw material costs with price increases is largely influenced by competitive and economic conditions and could vary significantly depending on the market served. If the company is not able to fully offset the effects of material availability and costs, financial results could be adversely affected. Electronic components, used by both the Flow Controls Division and Electronic Systems Division, are sometimes in short supply, impacting their ability to meet customer demand. Failure to develop and market new technologies and products could impact the company’s competitive position and have an adverse affect on the company’s financial results. The company’s operating results in its Flow Controls and to a lesser extent, its Engineered Films and Aerostar segments are largely dependent on the ability to renew the pipeline of new products and to bring those products to market. This ability could be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in product development such as the inability to identify viable new products, successfully complete research and development, obtain relevant regulatory approvals, obtain intellectual property protection, or gain market acceptance of new products and services. Because of the lengthy development process, technological challenges and intense competition, there can be no assurance that any of the products the company is currently developing, or could begin to develop in the future, will achieve substantial commercial success. In addition, sales of the company’s new products could replace sales of some of its current products, offsetting the benefit of even a successful product introduction. The company’s Electronic Systems Division is dependent on a small number of customers. The company’s Electronic Systems Division (ESD) is dependent on a small number of customers with the top two customers together representing over 50% of ESD sales. Accordingly, the ESD segment is dependent on the continued growth, viability and financial stability of our customers, which consist of original equipment manufacturers of avionics, consumer and hospital beds, global positioning systems (GPS) and secure telecommunication equipment. Future sales are dependent on the success of the company’s customers, some of which operate in businesses associated with rapid technological change and consequent product obsolescence. Developments adverse to major customers or their products, or the failure of a major customer to pay for components or services, could have an adverse effect on the performance of ESD. Further, ESD competes against many providers of electronics manufacturing services. Certain competitors have substantially greater resources and more geographically diversified international operations than ESD. This segment may also be at a competitive disadvantage with respect to price when compared to manufacturers with lower cost structures, particularly those with more offshore facilities located where labor and other costs are lower. The company also faces competition from the manufacturing operations of current and future customers, who are continually evaluating the merits of manufacturing products internally against the advantages of outsourcing to electronics manufacturing services providers. Accordingly, to compete effectively, ESD must continue to provide technologically advanced manufacturing services, maintain strict quality standards, respond flexibly and rapidly to customers’ design and schedule changes and deliver products globally on a reliable basis at competitive prices. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production. Start-up costs and inefficiencies related to new or transferred programs can adversely affect operating results and such costs may not be recoverable if such new programs or transferred programs are cancelled. The company’s Aerostar segment depends on the US government for a significant portion of its sales creating uncertainty in the timing of and funding for projected contracts. In the past three years, a significant portion of Aerostar’s sales were to the US government or US government agencies as a prime or sub-contractor. Government spending has historically been cyclical. A decrease in US government defense or near-space research spending or changes in spending allocation could result in one or more of the company’s programs being reduced, delayed or terminated. Reductions in the company’s existing programs, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could adversely affect its ability to sustain and grow its future sales and earnings. The company’s U.S. government sales are funded by the federal budget, which operates on an October-to-September fiscal year. Changes in congressional schedules, negotiations for program funding levels or unforeseen world events can interrupt the funding for a program or contract. Funds for multi-year contracts can be changed in subsequent years in the appropriations process. 7 Table of Contents In addition, the US government has increasingly relied on indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contracts and other procurement vehicles that are subject to a competitive bidding and funding process even after the award of the basic contract, adding an additional element of uncertainty to future funding levels. Delays in the funding process or changes in funding can impact the timing of available funds or can lead to changes in program content or termination at the government’s convenience. The loss of anticipated funding or the termination of multiple or large programs could have an adverse effect on the company’s future sales and earnings. Significant risks and uncertainties may not be covered by indemnity or insurance. While the company maintains insurance for many business risks, it is not possible to obtain coverage to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. Specifically, certain environmental risks related to mold in construction projects may be excluded from the company’s insurance policies beginning in February 2007. The company has never had any mold-related claims, but is aware that manufacturers of competing products and contractors who use our products have had claims made against them. Accordingly, in the event the company’s products become the subject of such claims, there may not be insurance protection available. Changes in government policies and laws or worldwide economic conditions could adversely affect the company’s financial results. The company’s financial results could be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of US and non-US governments, agencies and similar organizations. These conditions include but are not limited to changes in a country’s or region’s economic or political conditions, trade regulations affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, local labor conditions and regulations, reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries, changes in the regulatory or legal environment, restrictions on currency exchange activities, burdensome taxes and tariffs and other trade barriers. International risks and uncertainties, including changing social and economic conditions as well as terrorism, political hostilities and war, could lead to reduced sales and reduced profitability associated with such sales. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 