Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur Phase III PREGNANT Study to reduce the incidence of preterm birth may not result in FDA approval of PROCHIEVE 8% in the proposed preterm birth indication.Our lead research and development opportunity is progesterone vaginal gel 8% to reduce the risk of preterm birth in women with a singleton pregnancy and premature cervical shortening. In the PREGNANT Study, a Phase III pivotal trial conducted by Columbia in collaboration with the NIH, treatment with PROCHIEVE 8% was associated with: a 44% reduction in the incidence of preterm birth before 33 weeks gestation (p=0.022) and a 39% reduction in preterm births before 35 weeks gestation (p=0.012). Improvement in infant outcome was also noted with PROCHIEVE 8%. The incidence and profile of adverse events in patients receiving PROCHIEVE 8% was comparable to placebo. However, the study may ultimately provide insufficient safety or efficacy data to meet FDA requirements for approval of PROCHIEVE 8% in the proposed preterm birth indication. In such event, additional clinical studies may be needed by Watson to obtain approval that would delay significantly the payment of milestones and royalties for the proposed preterm birth indication and may result in a delay or discontinuation of pursuit of approval in ex-U.S. countries by either Watson or Merck-Serono. The NDA was reviewed by the FDA's Advisory Committee for Reproductive Health Drugs in January 2012. While Committee members generally agreed that PROCHIEVE 8% is safe, the Committee stated that more information is needed to support approval. On February 10, 2012, we transferred to Watson our pending NDA for the preterm birth indication pursuant to the second closing of the sale of assets under the Watson Purchase Agreement. On February 24, 2012, Watson received a Complete Response Letter ("CRL") from the FDA indicating that the NDA review cycle is complete and the application is not ready for approval in its present form. The CRL stated that the effect of treatment with progesterone vaginal gel 8% in reducing the risk of preterm birth in women with a short uterine cervical length at ≤ 32 6/7 weeks gestation (p=0.022) did not meet the level of statistical significance generally expected to support the approval of the product in the U.S. market from a single trial. In the CRL, the FDA stated that additional clinical work would be required to support the approval. Watson has requested an "End-of-Review" meeting with the FDA to discuss the issues outlined in the CRL and to determine if a viable path forward can be established for this application. Because of the costs or time required to obtain FDA and/or regulatory approvals of a progesterone product for the proposed preterm birth indication, Watson may decide not to continue to develop PROCHIEVE 8% or an alternative formulation of progesterone to prevent preterm birth in women with a short cervix. We can give no assurance that Prochieve 8% will ever be approved by the FDA.The amount of net proceeds that we will receive from the Watson Transactions is subject to uncertainties. Watson may decide not to continue to seek FDA approval of progesterone in the proposed preterm birth indication.The milestone and royalty payments contemplated by the Watson Purchase Agreement are subject to uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. It is possible that these payments may be materially less than we expect or may not be owed to us at all. Watson holds a patent in the US that expires in 2028 for the use of progesterone to prevent preterm birth in women with a short cervix, but the formulation patent for PROCHIEVE 8% expires in 2013. On February 10, 2012, we transferred to Watson our pending NDA for the preterm birth indication pursuant to our 2010 Watson Purchase Agreement. Under the Watson Purchase Agreement, Watson is obligated to pay us up to $32.5 million in cash upon the achievement of certain launch milestones for progesterone products for the preterm birth indication, whether or not the products use the PROCHIEVE 8% formulation. Watson will also make royalty payments of 10 to 20 percent of annual net sales of certain progesterone products (subject to certain reductions) or a share of gross profits. Because of the costs or time required to obtain FDA and/or regulatory approvals of a progesterone product for the proposed preterm birth indication, Watson may decide not to continue to develop PROCHIEVE 8% or an alternative formulation of progesterone to prevent preterm birth in women with a short cervix. In that case, we would not receive the milestones, royalties or share of gross profits from the proposed preterm birth indication.Our business is heavily dependent on the continued sale of Progesterone Products to Merck Serono and Watson.Our operating results are heavily dependent on the product revenues and royalties derived from the sales of Progesterone Products to Watson for sale in the U.S and the sale of CRINONE 8% to Merck Serono for sale outside the U.S. Revenues from sales to and royalties received from Watson in 2011 constituted approximately 65% of our total net revenues. Revenues from the sales to Merck Serono in 2011 constituted approximately 34% of our total net revenues. We do not control the amount and timing of marketing resources that Watson or Merck Serono devote to our product. The failure of Watson or Merck Serono to effectively market our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our license and supply agreement with Merck Serono expires on May 19, 2015. Our supply agreement with Watson also expires on May 19, 2015, but Watson's obligation to pay us royalties on product sales continues until the latest of patent expiration, regulatory exclusivity expiration, or July 2, 2020.The price of our Common Stock has been and may continue to be volatile.Historically, the market price of our Common Stock has fluctuated over a wide range. Between 2009 and 2010, our Common Stock traded in a range from $0.65 to $2.43 per share. In 2011, our Common Stock traded in a range from $1.78 to $4.31 per share. It is likely that the price of our Common Stock will continue to fluctuate. The market prices of securities of small specialty 19pharmaceutical companies, including ours, from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations. In particular, the market price of our Common Stock may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, including: the results of clinical trials for our product candidates; FDA’s determination with respect to new drug applications for new products and new indications; and our ability to develop additional products. In addition, the occurrence of any of the risks described in these “Risk Factors” could have a material and adverse impact on the market price of our Common Stock.If we do not meet the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market, our Common Stock may be delisted.Our Common Stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. The NASDAQ Global Market requires us to continue to meet certain listing standards. On December 9, 2009, we received a letter from the NASDAQ Global Market indicating that for 30 consecutive business days our Common Stock did not maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 or the Minimum Bid Price Requirement per share as required by NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). On January 13, 2010, we received a notice from the NASDAQ Global Market indicating that we had regained compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market as set forth in Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(1). The notice stated that the closing bid price of our Common Stock had been at or above the required minimum $1.00 per share for the previous 10 consecutive business days.On March 6, 2012, we again received a letter from the NASDAQ Global Market indicating that for 30 consecutive business days our Common Stock did not maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 or the Minimum Bid Price Requirement per share as required by NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). The Company has 180 calendar days to regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price rule. If at any time before September 4, 2012, the bid price of the Company's Common Stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, NASDAQ will notify the Company that it has regained compliance with the minimum bid price rule.We cannot assure you that we will regain compliance with the NASDAQ Global Market continued listing requirements. If we do not meet the NASDAQ Global Market’s continued listing standards, we will be notified by the NASDAQ Global Market and we will be required to take corrective action to meet the continued listing standards; otherwise our Common Stock will be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. A delisting of our Common Stock on the NASDAQ Global Market would reduce the liquidity and market price of our Common Stock and the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our Common Stock, which could negatively impact our ability to access the public capital markets. A delisting would also reduce the value of our equity compensation plans, which could negatively impact our ability to retain key employees.The current stock market and credit market conditions are extremely volatile and may restrict our ability to raise additional funds to meet our capital needs.The current stock market and credit market conditions are extremely volatile. It is difficult to predict whether these conditions will continue or worsen and, if so, whether the conditions would impact us and whether the impact would be material. In particular, constriction and volatility in the equity and debt markets may restrict our future ability to access these markets should it become necessary to raise additional funds.A decline in the price of our Common Stock could affect our ability to raise further working capital and adversely impact our ability to continue operations.A prolonged decline in the price of our Common Stock could result in a reduction in the liquidity of our Common Stock and a reduction in our ability to raise capital. Such reductions may force us to reallocate funds from other planned uses and may have a significant negative effect on our business plans and operations, including our ability to develop our product candidates and continue our current operations. If we are unable to raise sufficient capital in the future, and we are unable to generate funds from operations sufficient to meet our obligations, we will not be able to have the resources to continue our normal operations.The development of our pharmaceutical products is uncertain and subject to a number of significant risks.As a drug development company, some of our pharmaceutical products are in various stages of development. In the U.S. and most foreign countries, we must complete extensive human clinical trials that demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product in order to apply for regulatory approval to market the product.The process of developing product candidates involves a degree of risk and may take several years. Product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development may fail to reach the market for several reasons, including:•Clinical trials may show our product candidates to be ineffective for the indications studied or to have harmful side effects;•Product candidates may fail to receive regulatory approvals required to bring the products to market;•Manufacturing costs or other factors may make our product candidates uneconomical; and•The proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies may prevent our product candidates from being effectively commercialized.Success in early clinical trials does not ensure that large-scale clinical trials will be successful. Clinical results are frequently 20susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals.The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. The speed with which we can complete clinical trials and applications for marketing approval will depend on several factors, including the following:•The rate of patient enrollment which is a function of factors including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study, and the nature of the study protocol;•Institutional Review Board, or IRB, approval of the study protocol and the informed consent form;•Prior regulatory agency review and approval;•Analysis of data obtained from clinical activities, which are susceptible to varying interpretations and which interpretations could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval;•Changes in the policies of regulatory authorities for drug approval during the period of product development; and•The availability of skilled and experienced staff to conduct and monitor clinical studies and to prepare the appropriate regulatory applications.In addition, developing product candidates is very expensive and could continue to have a significant impact on our ability to generate profits. Factors affecting our product development expenses include:•Our ability to raise any additional funds, if needed, to complete our trials;•The number and outcome of clinical trials conducted by us and/or our collaborators;•The number of products we may have in clinical development;•In licensing or other partnership activities, including the timing and amount of related development funding, license fees or milestone payments; and•Future levels of our revenue.Clinical trials are expensive and can take years to complete, and there is no guarantee that the clinical trials will demonstrate sufficient safety and/or efficacy of the products to meet FDA requirements, or those of foreign regulatory authorities.We may experience adverse events in clinical trials, which could delay or halt our product development.Our product candidates may produce serious adverse events. These adverse events could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of our product candidates and could result in FDA or other regulatory authorities denying approval of our product candidates for any or all targeted indications. An IRB or independent data safety monitoring board, the FDA, other regulatory authorities, or we ourselves may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time. Our product candidates may prove not to be safe for human use.Delays or failures in obtaining regulatory approvals may delay or prevent marketing of the products that we are developing.The regulatory approval process typically is extremely expensive, takes many years, and the timing or likelihood of any approval cannot be accurately predicted. Delays in obtaining regulatory approval can be extremely costly in terms of lost sales opportunities and increased clinical trial costs. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval for our current or future product candidates or expanded indications for currently marketed products, we will be unable to market and sell such products and indications.As part of the regulatory approval process, we must conduct clinical trials for each product candidate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. The number of clinical trials that will be required varies depending on the product candidate, the indication being evaluated, the trial results, and the regulations applicable to any particular product candidate.The results of initial clinical trials of our product candidates do not necessarily predict the results of later-stage clinical trials. Product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy despite having progressed through initial clinical trials. The data collected from the clinical trials of our product candidates may not be sufficient to support FDA or other regulatory approval. In addition, the continuation of a particular study after review by an IRB or independent data safety monitoring board does not necessarily indicate that our product candidate will achieve the clinical endpoint.The FDA and other regulatory agencies can delay, limit or deny approval for many reasons, including:•A product candidate may not be deemed to be safe or effective;•The manufacturing processes or facilities we have selected may not meet the applicable requirements; and•Changes in their approval policies or adoption of new regulations may require additional clinical trials or other data.Any delay in, or failure to receive, approval for any of our product candidates could prevent us from growing our revenues or achieving profitability.Healthcare insurers and other payors may not pay for our products or may impose limits on reimbursement.The ability of our partners to commercialize our prescription products will depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for our products is available from third-party payors, such as health maintenance organizations, health insurers and 21other public and private payors. If we succeed in bringing new prescription products to market or expand the approved label for existing products, we cannot be assured that third-party payors will pay for such products, or establish and maintain price levels sufficient for realization of an appropriate return on our investment in product development.Many health maintenance organizations and other third-party payors use formularies, or lists of drugs for which coverage is provided under a healthcare benefit plan, to control the costs of prescription drugs. Each payor that maintains a drug formulary makes its own determination as to whether a new drug will be added to the formulary and whether particular drugs in a therapeutic class will have preferred status over other drugs in the same class. This determination often involves an assessment of the clinical appropriateness of the drug and, in some cases, the cost of the drug in comparison to alternative products. Our products marketed by our partners from which we derive royalties may not be added to payors’ formularies, our products may not have preferred status to alternative therapies, and formulary decisions may not be conducted in a timely manner. Once reimbursement at an agreed level is approved by a third-party payor, reimbursement may be lost entirely or be reduced compared to competitive products. As reimbursement is often approved for a period of time, this risk is greater at the end of the time period, if any, for which the reimbursement was approved. Our partners may also decide to enter into discount or formulary fee arrangements with payors, which could result in lower or discounted prices for CRINONE, PROCHIEVE, or future products.We face significant competition from pharmaceutical companies that may adversely impact the market share of our marketing partners.Our marketing partners compete against established pharmaceutical companies that market products addressing similar needs. Further, numerous companies are developing, or may develop, enhanced delivery systems and products that compete with our present and proposed products. Some of these competitors may possess greater financial, research and technical resources than our company or our partners. Moreover, these companies may possess greater marketing capabilities than our partners, including the resources to implement extensive advertising campaigns.The pharmaceutical industry is subject to change as new delivery technologies are developed, new products enter the market, generic versions of available drugs become available, and treatment paradigms evolve to reflect these and other medical research discoveries. We face significant competition in all areas of our business. The rapid pace of change in the pharmaceutical industry continually creates new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups, and can quickly render existing products less valuable. Customer requirements and physician and patient preferences continually change as new treatment options emerge, are more or less heavily promoted, and become less expensive. As a result, our partners may not gain, and may lose, market share.Our products could demonstrate hormone replacement risks.In the past, certain studies of female hormone replacement therapy products, such as estrogen, have reported an increase in health risks. Progesterone is a natural female hormone present at normal levels in most women through their lifetimes. However, some women require progesterone supplementation due to a natural or chemical-related progesterone deficiency. It is possible that data suggesting risks or problems may come to light in the future that could demonstrate a health risk associated with progesterone or progestin supplementation or our 8% and 4% progesterone gels. It is also possible that future study results for hormone replacement therapy could be negative and could result in negative publicity about the risks and benefits of hormone replacement therapy. As a result, physicians and patients may not wish to prescribe or use progestins, including progesterone gels.We may be exposed to product liability claims.We could be exposed to future product liability claims by consumers. Although we presently maintain product liability insurance coverage at what we believe is a commercially reasonable level, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all possible liabilities. An award against us in an amount greater than our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Steps taken by us to protect our proprietary rights might not be adequate; in which case, competitors may infringe on our rights or develop similar products. The U.S. and foreign patents upon which our original BDS was based have expired.Our success and competitive position are partially dependent on our ability to protect our proprietary position for our technology, products and product candidates. We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws, third-party confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements, and other methods to protect our proprietary rights. The steps we take to protect our proprietary rights, however, may not be adequate. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our patents, copyrights, trademarks, and similar proprietary rights. Moreover, we may not be able or willing, for financial, legal or other reasons, to enforce our rights.Bio-Mimetics, Inc. ("Bio-Mimetics") held the patent upon which our original BDS, was based and which we purchased from them. Bio-Mimetics’ patent contained broad claims covering controlled release products that include a bioadhesive. However, this U.S. patent and its corresponding foreign patents expired in November 2003 and 2004, respectively. Based upon the expiration of the original Bio-Mimetics patent, other parties will be permitted to make, use or sell products covered by the claims of the Bio-Mimetics patent, subject to other patents, including those which we hold. We have obtained numerous patents with claims covering improved methods of formulating and delivering therapeutic compounds using the BDS. We cannot assure you that any of these 22patents will enable us to prevent infringement, or that our competitors will not develop alternative methods of delivering compounds, potentially resulting in competitive products outside the protection that may be afforded by our patents. Other companies may independently develop or obtain patent or similar rights to equivalent or superior technologies or processes. Additionally, although we believe that our patented technology has been independently developed and does not infringe on the proprietary rights of others, we cannot assure you that our products do not and will not infringe on the proprietary rights of others. In the event of infringement, we may be required to modify our technology or products, obtain licenses or pay license fees. We may not be able to do so in a timely manner or upon acceptable terms and conditions. This may have a material adverse effect on our operations.The standards that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. Limitations on patent protection in some countries outside the U.S., and the differences in what constitutes patentable subject matter in these countries, may limit the protection we seek outside of the U.S. For example, methods of treating humans are not patentable subject matter in many countries outside of the U.S. In addition, laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as would laws of the U.S. In determining whether or not to seek a patent or to license any patent in a particular foreign country, we weigh the relevant costs and benefits, and consider, among other things, the market potential of our product candidates in the jurisdiction and the scope and enforceability of patent protection afforded by the law of the jurisdiction.Our progesterone delivery patent for CRINONE and PROCHIEVE expires in 2013 in the U.S. and in 2014 outside the U.S. Our progesterone delivery patent for the current formulation of CRINONE/PROCHIEVE expires in September 2013. This same patent applies to the preterm birth opportunity product, if development is successful and it is approved. Together with Watson, we are working on the next generation delivery system with a longer patent life. The cost of developing this system is being funded by Watson. We have no assurances that the development of the next generation delivery system will be successful or completed and approved prior to the expiration of the current patents.We hold patents on the delivery system for the product in the following countries in which sales of CRINONE are material: Australia, Canada, Germany, Hungary, Italy and Russia, which patents expire in May 2014. We do not hold patents on the delivery system for the product in the following countries in which sales of CRINONE are material: Brazil, China, South Korea, Taiwan, Turkey and Vietnam. Merck Serono holds marketing authorizations for CRINONE in approximately 60 countries outside the United States. We are subject to government regulation, which could affect our partners' ability to sell products.Nearly every aspect of the development, manufacture and commercialization of our pharmaceutical products is subject to time-consuming and costly regulation by various governmental entities, including the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Administration and state agencies, as well as regulatory agencies in those foreign countries in which our products are manufactured or distributed. The FDA has the power to seize adulterated or misbranded products and unapproved new drugs, to require their recall from the market, to enjoin further manufacture or sale, and to publicize certain facts concerning a product.We employ various quality control measures in our efforts to ensure that our products conform to their intended specifications and meet the standards required under applicable governmental regulations, including FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations. Notwithstanding our efforts, our products or the ingredients we purchase from our suppliers for inclusion in our products may contain undetected defects or non-conformities with specifications. Such defects or non-conformities could compel us to recall the affected product, make changes to or restrict distribution of the product, or take other remedial actions. The occurrence of such events may harm our relations with or result in the loss of customers, injure our reputation, impair market acceptance of our products, harm our financial results, and, in certain circumstances, expose us to product liability or other claims.We are dependent on single-source third-party suppliers of raw materials for our products, the loss of whom could impair our ability to manufacture and sell our products.Medical grade, cross-linked polycarbophil, the polymer used in our BDS-based products is currently available from only one supplier, Lubrizol, Inc. ("Lubrizol"). We believe that Lubrizol will supply as much of the material as we require because our products rank among the highest value-added uses of the polymer. In the event that Lubrizol cannot or will not supply enough of the product to satisfy our needs, we will be required to seek alternative sources of polycarbophil. An alternative source of polycarbophil may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all, which would impair our ability to manufacture and sell our products. While we purchase polycarbophil from Lubrizol, Inc. from time to time, we do not have an agreement with them concerning future purchases. The Company's policy is to have in inventory at least a 12 month supply of polycarbophil. We currently purchase progesterone from two suppliers for the U.S., but only one supplier is approved in the rest of the world. If our suppliers are unable or unwilling to satisfy our needs, we will be required to seek alternative sources of supply. While alternative sources of progesterone exist, the time needed to obtain regulatory approvals for new suppliers may impair our ability to manufacture and sell our products.23We are dependent upon single-source third-party developers and manufacturers, the loss of which could result in a loss of revenues.We rely on third parties to develop and manufacture our products, including Fleet, which manufacturers our vaginal gel products in bulk and Maropack, which fills our vaginal gel products into applicators . These third parties may not be able to satisfy our needs in the future, and we may not be able to find or obtain FDA approval of alternate developers and manufacturers. Delays in the development and manufacture of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business. This reliance on third parties could have an adverse effect on our profit margins. Any interruption in the manufacture of our products would impair our ability to deliver our products to customers on a timely and competitive basis, and could result in the loss of revenues.The loss of our key executives could have a significant impact on our company.Our success depends in large part upon the abilities and continued service of our executive officers and other key employees. Our employment agreements with our executive officers are terminable by them on short notice. The loss of key employees may result in a significant loss in the knowledge and experience that we, as an organization, possess, and could cause significant delays in, or outright failure of, the development and commercialization of our products and product candidates. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified and talented senior management personnel, our business may suffer.We may be limited in our use of our net operating loss carryforwards.As of December 31, 2011, we had certain net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $153 million that may be used to reduce our future U.S. federal income tax liabilities, if we become profitable. If unused, these tax loss carryforwards will begin to expire between 2018 and 2031. Our ability to use these loss carryforwards to reduce our future U.S. federal income tax liabilities could also be lost if we were to experience more than a 50% change in ownership within the meaning of Section 382(g) of the Internal Revenue Code. If we were to lose the benefits of these loss carryforwards, our future earnings and cash resources would be materially and adversely affected.On November 29, 2010, we amended and restated our Rights Agreement, dated as of March 13, 2002, as amended (the "Rights Plan"). The Rights Plan is intended to preserve the value of our net operating loss carryforwards by reducing the likelihood that we will experience an ownership change by discouraging (i) any person (together with such person's affiliates and associates), without the approval of our board of directors from acquiring 4.99% or more of our outstanding voting stock (as defined in the Rights Plan) and (ii) any person that currently beneficially owns 4.99% or more of the outstanding voting stock from acquiring more shares of our voting stock, other than by exercise or conversion of currently existing warrants, convertible securities or other equity-linked securities. On September 20, 2011 we further amended the Rights Plan to extend the expiration date from March 12, 2012, to July 3, 2013. There is no guarantee that the Rights Plan will prevent an ownership change within the meaning of Section 382(g) of the Internal Revenue Code and therefore, no guarantee that the value of our net operating loss carryforwards will be preserved.Sales of large amounts of our Common Stock may adversely affect our market price. The issuance of preferred stock or convertible debt may adversely affect rights of Common Stockholders.As of March 9, 2012, we had 87,330,865 shares of Common Stock outstanding, of which 75,380,709 shares were freely tradable. As of that date, approximately 11,950,156 shares of our Common Stock were held by affiliates. We also have the following securities outstanding: series B convertible preferred stock, series C convertible preferred stock, series E convertible preferred stock, warrants, and options. If all of these securities are exercised or converted, an additional 17,600,012 shares of our Common Stock will be outstanding, all of which are available for resale under the Securities Act. The exercise and conversion of these securities is likely to dilute the book value per share of our Common Stock. In addition, the existence of these securities may adversely affect the terms on which we can obtain additional equity financing.In March 2002, our Board of Directors authorized shares of series D junior participating preferred stock in connection with its adoption of a stockholder rights plan (as discussed above, this plan was amended and restated on November 29, 2010), under which we issued rights to purchase series D convertible preferred stock to holders of our Common Stock. Upon certain triggering events, such rights become exercisable to purchase shares of our Common Stock (or, in the discretion of our Board of Directors, series D convertible preferred stock) at a price substantially discounted from the then current market price of our Common Stock.Under our certificate of incorporation, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 1.0 million shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. In addition, we may issue convertible debt without shareholder approval. The rights of the holders of our Common Stock are subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any shares of preferred stock or convertible debt that may be issued in the future. While we have no present intention to authorize or issue any additional series of preferred stock or convertible debt, such preferred stock or convertible debt, if authorized and issued, may have other rights, including economic rights senior to our Common Stock, and, as a result, their issuance could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our Common Stock.24Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations.We are a small company and we rely heavily on third parties to conduct many important functions. As a pharmaceutical company, we are subject to a large body of legal and regulatory requirements. In addition, as a publicly traded company we are subject to significant regulations. We cannot assure you that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with all potentially applicable laws and regulations could lead to the imposition of fines, cause the value of our Common Stock to decline, impede our ability to raise capital or lead to the de-listing of our stock.We could be negatively impacted by future interpretation or implementation of federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws, false claims laws and federal and state anti-referral laws.Various federal and state laws pertain to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws, false claims laws and physician self-referral laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment. Health care fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor, inadvertent irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that the law has been violated. Any violations of these laws could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have not been challenged by a governmental authority under any of these laws and believe that our operations are in compliance with such laws.We could become subject to false claims litigation under federal or state statutes, which can lead to civil money penalties, criminal fines and imprisonment, and/or exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. These false claims statutes include the federal False Claims Act, which allows any person to bring suit alleging the false or fraudulent submission of claims for payment under federal programs or other violations of the statute and to share in any amounts paid by us to the government in fines or settlement. Such suits, known as qui tam actions, have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that companies like us may have to defend a false claim action. We could also become subject to similar false claims litigation under state statutes. If we are unsuccessful in defending any such action, such action may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Anti-takeover provisions could impede or discourage a third-party acquisition of our company. This could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium over market price for their stock.We are a Delaware corporation. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various obstacles to the ability of a third party to acquire control of our company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our Board of Directors has adopted a stockholder rights plan (as discussed above, this plan was amended and restated on November 29, 2010 and extended on September 20, 2011) and has designated a series of preferred stock that could be used defensively if a takeover is threatened. Our incorporation under Delaware law, our stockholder rights plan, and our ability to issue additional series of preferred stock, could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving our company or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our Common Stock. This could reduce the market value of our Common Stock if investors view these factors as preventing stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares.We are exposed to market risk from foreign currency exchange rates.With two operating subsidiaries and third party manufacturers in Europe, economic and political developments in the European Union, including the ongoing European debt problems, can have a significant impact on our business. All of our products are currently manufactured in Europe. We are exposed to currency fluctuations related to payment for the manufacture of our products in Euros and other currencies and selling them in U.S. dollars and other currencies.If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, and current and potential stockholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting.We are required by the SEC to establish and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. We are likewise required, on a quarterly basis, to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls and to disclose any changes and material weaknesses in those internal controls. As described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2009 filed with the SEC on December 28, 2010, we identified a material weakness with regard to accounting for warrant instruments in our internal control over financial reporting, specifically with regard to our prior interpretation of ASC 815, as it related to the initial classification and subsequent accounting of registered warrants as either liabilities or equity instruments dating back to October 2009. Upon a reassessment of those financial instruments, in light of GAAP as currently interpreted, we determined that we should have accounted for certain warrant instruments as liabilities instead of equity. Given this material weakness with regard to warrants, management concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009.We have devoted significant effort and resources to the remediation and improvement of our internal control over financial reporting including additional training in appropriate accounting topics to those charged with financial reporting. While we have processes to identify and intelligently apply developments in accounting, we have enhanced these processes to better evaluate our 25research and understanding of the nuances of increasingly complex accounting standards, including better access to accounting literature, research materials and documents; and increased communication among our legal and finance personnel and third party professionals with whom we consult regarding complex accounting applications.Any failure to maintain such internal controls could adversely impact our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis. If our financial statements are not accurate, investors may not have a complete understanding of our operations. Likewise, if our financial statements are not filed on a timely basis as required by the SEC and NASDAQ, we could face severe consequences from those authorities. In either case, there could result a material adverse effect on our business. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. We can give no assurance that the measures we have taken and plan to take in the future will be adequate or that any material weaknesses or restatements of financial results will not arise in the future due to a failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting or circumvention of these controls. In addition, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or errors or to facilitate the fair presentation of our consolidated financial statements.We could be negatively impacted by securities class action complaints.Between February 1, 2012 and February 6, 2012, two putative securities class action complaints were filed against the Company, three of its officers, and two of its independent directors in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey. These actions were filed under the captions Wright v. Columbia Laboratories, Inc., et al., and Shu v. Columbia Laboratories, Inc., et al., and assert claims under sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on behalf of an alleged class of purchasers of the Company's common stock during the period December 6, 2010 through January 20, 2012. The complaints allege that the Company and its officers omitted to state material facts that they were under a duty to disclose, and made materially false and misleading statements that related to the results of the Company's Phase III PREGNANT Study and the likelihood of approval by the United States Food and Drug Administration of a new drug application to market PROCHIEVE 8% for the prevention of preterm birth. According to the complaints, these alleged omissions and misleading statements had the effect of artificially inflating the market price of the Company's stock. The plaintiffs seek unspecified damages on behalf of the putative class and an award of costs and expenses, including attorney's fees. The Company believes that these actions are without merit, and intends to defend them vigorously. It will take time and money to defend and may distract us from more productive activities. No assurance can be provided that we will be successful in defending this litigation or that insurance proceeds will be sufficient to cover any liability under such claims. 26Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.