Item 1A. Risk Factors We have a history of losses and we may continue to incur losses. We have had a history of losses since our founding. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, we had a net loss of $14.3 million. If we and our partners are unable to successfully market our products, and otherwise increase sales of our products, and contain our operating expenses, we may not have sufficient funds to continue operations unless we are able to raise additional funds from sales of securities or otherwise. Additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Our business is heavily dependent on the continued sale of CRINONE® 8%, PROCHIEVE® 4%, Replens®, and RepHresh® by our marketing partners. If revenues from these partnered products fail to increase as anticipated, or materially decline, our financial condition and results of operations will be materially harmed. Our operating results are heavily dependent on the revenues and royalties derived from the sale of CRINONE 8% to Merck Serono for sale outside the U.S., the sale of PROCHIEVE 4% to Ascend for sale in the U.S., the sale of STRIANT to Ardana and Mipharm for sale in Europe, and the sale of Replens and RepHresh to Lil’ Drug Store. Revenues from sales of these partnered products in 2007, comprised approximately 49% of our total revenues. We do not control the amount and timing of marketing resources that our partners devote to our products. If Merck Serono fails to effectively market CRINONE 8% in its ex-U.S. territories, Ascend fails to effectively market PROCHIEVE 4% in the U.S., Ardana and Mipharm fail to effectively market STRIANT in their respective territories, or Lil’ Drug Store fails to effectively market Replens and RepHresh, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We acquired marketing rights to CRINONE in the United States in December 2006, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. On December 22, 2006, we purchased the marketing rights in the United States to CRINONE from Merck Serono, and we began in 2007 to call for the first time on reproductive endocrinologists, a medical specialty in infertility. Our goal is to grow CRINONE® prescribing practices with these specialists. We believe the reproductive endocrinologists are particularly important because of their influence on prescribing practices of obstetricians and gynecologists who also treat infertility. Our efforts to grow the CRINONE business may not be successful and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Healthcare insurers and other payors may not pay for our products or may impose limits on reimbursement. Our ability to commercialize our prescription products will depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for our products is available from third-party payors, such as health maintenance organizations, health insurers and other public and private payors. If we succeed in bringing new prescription products to market, we cannot be assured that third-party payors will pay for such products, or establish and maintain price levels sufficient for realization of an appropriate return on our investment in product development. 21 Many health maintenance organizations and other third-party payors use formularies, or lists of drugs for which coverage is provided under a healthcare benefit plan, to control the costs of prescription drugs. Each payor that maintains a drug formulary makes its own determination as to whether a new drug will be added to the formulary and whether particular drugs in a therapeutic class will have preferred status over other drugs in the same class. This determination often involves an assessment of the clinical appropriateness of the drug and, in some cases, the cost of the drug in comparison to alternative products. Our current or our future products may not be added to payors’ formularies, our products may not have preferred status to alternative therapies, and formulary decisions may not be conducted in a timely manner. Once reimbursement at an agreed level is approved by a third-party payor, we may lose that reimbursement entirely or we may lose the similar or better reimbursement we receive compared to competitive products. As reimbursement is often approved for a period of time, this risk is greater at the end of the time period, if any, for which the reimbursement was approved. We may also decide to enter into discount or formulary fee arrangements with payors, which could result in us receiving lower or discounted prices for CRINONE®, PROCHIEVE® and STRIANT® or future products. We face significant competition from pharmaceutical and consumer product companies, which may adversely impact our market share. We and our marketing partners compete against established pharmaceutical and consumer product companies that market products addressing similar needs. Further, numerous companies are developing, or may develop, enhanced delivery systems and products that compete with our present and proposed products. It is possible that we may not have the resources to withstand these and other competitive forces. Some of these competitors may possess greater financial, research and technical resources than our company or our partners. Moreover, these companies may possess greater marketing capabilities than our company or our partners, including the resources to implement extensive advertising campaigns. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to change as new delivery technologies are developed, new products enter the market, generic versions of available drugs become available, and treatment paradigms evolve to reflect these and other medical research discoveries. We face significant competition in all areas of our business. The rapid pace of change in the pharmaceutical industry continually creates new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups, and can quickly render existing products less valuable. Customer requirements and physician and patient preferences continually change as new treatment options emerge, are more or less heavily promoted, and become less expensive. As a result, we may not gain, and may lose, market share. CRINONE/PROCHIEVE, a natural progesterone product, competes in markets with other progestins, both synthetic and natural, including Endometrin® (progesterone vaginal insert) marketed by Ferring, Prometrium® (oral micronized progesterone) marketed by Solvay, pharmacy-compounded injections and pharmacy-compounded vaginal suppositories. In June, 2007, Ferring obtained FDA approval for, and launched, Endometrin® (progesterone vaginal insert) a competing product for use in infertility. Ferring is one of the leading companies in the infertility market and, in addition to Endometrin, offers gonadotropin hormones generally used for the treatment of infertility. Ferring may have greater awareness among key reproductive endocrinology opinion leaders than Columbia. STRIANT® competes against other testosterone products that can be delivered by injection, transdermal patch and transdermal gel. Some of the more successful testosterone products include AndroGel® (testosterone gel) marketed by Unimed, Testim® (testosterone gel) marketed by Auxilium, and Androderm® (testosterone transdermal system) marketed by Watson. Competition is based primarily on delivery method. Transdermal testosterone gels currently have the largest market share and transdermal testosterone patches have the next largest market share, followed by injectable products. STRIANT is priced comparably to the gels and patches. 22 Our products could demonstrate hormone replacement risks. In the past, certain studies of female hormone replacement therapy products, such as estrogen, have reported an increase in health risks. Progesterone is a natural female hormone, present at normal levels in most women through their lifetimes. However, some women require progesterone supplementation due to a natural or chemical-related progesterone deficiency. It is possible that data suggesting risks or problems may come to light in the future which could demonstrate a health risk associated with progesterone or progestin supplementation or our 8% and 4% progesterone gels. It is also possible that future study results for hormone replacement therapy could be negative and could result in negative publicity about the risks and benefits of hormone replacement therapy. As a result, physicians and patients may not wish to prescribe or use progestins, including our progesterone gels. Similarly, while testosterone is a natural male hormone, present at normal levels in most men through their lifetimes, some men require testosterone replacement therapy, or TRT, to normalize their testosterone levels. It is possible that data suggesting risks or problems may come to light in the future that could demonstrate a health risk associated with TRT or STRIANT®. It is also possible that future study results for hormone replacement therapy could be negative and could result in negative publicity about the risks and benefits of TRT. As a result, physicians and patients may not wish to prescribe or use TRT products, including STRIANT. In addition investors may become concerned about these issues and decide to sell our Common Stock. These factors could adversely affect our business and the price of our Common Stock. We may be exposed to product liability claims. We could be exposed to future product liability claims by consumers. Although we presently maintain product liability insurance coverage at what we believe is a commercially reasonable level, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all possible liabilities. An award against us in an amount greater than our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Some customers require us to have a minimum level of product liability insurance coverage before they will purchase or accept our products for distribution. If we fail to satisfy insurance requirements, our ability to achieve broad distribution of our products could be limited. This could have a material adverse effect upon our business and financial condition. Steps taken by us to protect our proprietary rights might not be adequate, in which case competitors may infringe on our rights or develop similar products. The United States and foreign patents upon which our original Bioadhesive Delivery System was based have expired. Our success and competitive position are partially dependent on our ability to protect our proprietary position for our technology, products and product candidates. We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws, third-party confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements, and other methods to protect our proprietary rights. The steps we take to protect our proprietary rights, however, may not be adequate. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our patents, copyrights, trademarks, and similar proprietary rights. Moreover, we may not be able or willing, for financial, legal or other reasons, to enforce our rights. To date, we have never been a party to a proprietary rights action. 23 Bio-Mimetics, Inc. held the patent upon which our original Bioadhesive Delivery System, or BDS, was based and granted us a license under that patent. Bio-Mimetics’ patent contained broad claims covering controlled release products that include a bioadhesive. However, this United States patent and its corresponding foreign patents expired in November 2003. Based upon the expiration of the original Bio-Mimetics patent, other parties will be permitted to make, use or sell products covered by the claims of the Bio-Mimetics patent, subject to other patents, including those which we hold. We have obtained numerous patents with claims covering improved methods of formulating and delivering therapeutic compounds using the BDS. We cannot assure you that any of these patents will enable us to prevent infringement, or that our competitors will not develop alternative methods of delivering compounds, potentially resulting in competitive products outside the protection that may be afforded by our patents. Other companies may independently develop or obtain patent or similar rights to equivalent or superior technologies or processes. Additionally, although we believe that our patented technology has been independently developed and does not infringe on the proprietary rights of others, we cannot assure you that our products do not and will not infringe on the proprietary rights of others. In the event of infringement, we may be required to modify our technology or products, obtain licenses or pay license fees. We may not be able to do so in a timely manner or upon acceptable terms and conditions. This may have a material adverse effect on our operations. The standards that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. Limitations on patent protection in some countries outside the U.S., and the differences in what constitutes patentable subject matter in these countries, may limit the protection we seek outside of the U.S. For example, methods of treating humans are not patentable subject matter in many countries outside of the U.S. In addition, laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as would laws of the U.S. In determining whether or not to seek a patent or to license any patent in a particular foreign country, we weigh the relevant costs and benefits, and consider, among other things, the market potential of our product candidates in the jurisdiction and the scope and enforceability of patent protection afforded by the law of the jurisdiction. We own or are seeking registration of the following as trademarks in countries throughout the world: CRINONE®, PROCHIEVE®, STRIANT®, and STRIANT SR®. These trademarks, however, may not afford us adequate protection or we may not have the financial resources to enforce our rights under these trademarks. We are subject to government regulation, which could affect our ability to sell products. Nearly every aspect of the development, manufacture and commercialization of our pharmaceutical products is subject to time-consuming and costly regulation by various governmental entities, including the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, the Drug Enforcement Administration and state agencies, as well as regulatory agencies in those foreign countries in which our products are manufactured or distributed. The FDA has the power to seize adulterated or misbranded products and unapproved new drugs, to require their recall from the market, to enjoin further manufacture or sale, and to publicize certain facts concerning a product. We employ various quality control measures in our efforts to ensure that our products conform to their intended specifications and meet the standards proscribed by applicable governmental regulations, including FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations. Notwithstanding our efforts, our products or the ingredients we purchase from our suppliers for inclusion in our products may contain undetected defects or non-conformities with specifications. Such defects or non-conformities could compel us to recall the affected product, make changes to or restrict distribution of the product, or take other remedial actions. The occurrence of such events may harm our relations with or result in the loss of customers, injure our reputation, impair market acceptance of our products, harm our financial results, and, in certain circumstances, expose us to product liability or other claims. 24 The development of our pharmaceutical products is uncertain and subject to a number of significant risks. Some of our pharmaceutical products are in various stages of development. In the United States and most foreign countries, we must complete extensive human clinical trials that demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product in order to apply for regulatory approval to market the product. The process of developing product candidates involves a degree of risk and may take several years. Product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development may fail to reach the market for several reasons, including: · Clinical trials may show our product candidates to be ineffective for the indications studied or to have harmful side effects; · Product candidates may fail to receive regulatory approvals required to bring the products to market; · Manufacturing costs or other factors may make our product candidates uneconomical; and · The proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies may prevent our product candidates from being effectively commercialized. Success in early clinical trials does not ensure that large-scale clinical trials will be successful. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. The speed with which we can complete clinical trials and applications for marketing approval will depend on several factors, including the following: · The rate of patient enrollment, which is a function of factors including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study, and the nature of the study protocol; · Institutional review board, or IRB, approval of the study protocol and the informed consent form; · Prior regulatory agency review and approval; · Analysis of data obtained from clinical activities, which are susceptible to varying interpretations and which interpretations could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval; · Changes in the policies of regulatory authorities for drug approval during the period of product development; and · The availability of skilled and experienced staff to conduct and monitor clinical studies and to prepare the appropriate regulatory applications. In addition, developing product candidates is very expensive and will continue to have a significant impact on our ability to generate profits. Factors affecting our product development expenses include: · Our ability to raise any additional funds that we need to complete our trials; · The number and outcome of clinical trials conducted by us and/or our collaborators; · The number of products we may have in clinical development; · In licensing or other partnership activities, including the timing and amount of related development funding, license fees or milestone payments; and · Future levels of our revenue. Clinical trials are expensive and can take years to complete, and there is no guarantee that the clinical trials will demonstrate sufficient safety and/or efficacy of the products to meet FDA requirements, or those of foreign regulatory authorities. 25 We may experience adverse events in clinical trials, which could delay or halt our product development. Our product candidates may produce serious adverse events. These adverse events could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of our product candidates and could result in FDA or other regulatory authorities denying approval of our product candidates for any or all targeted indications. An IRB or independent data safety monitoring board, the FDA, other regulatory authorities, or we ourselves may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time. Our product candidates may prove not to be safe for human use. Delays or failures in obtaining regulatory approvals may delay or prevent marketing of the products that we are developing. Other than PROCHIEVE® 8% (progesterone gel) which is being evaluated for the prevention of preterm birth in women with a short cervix at mid-pregnancy, and PROCHIEVE® 4% (progesterone gel), which is being evaluated for the prevention of endometrial hyperplasia in women with an intact uterus undergoing estrogen replacement therapy, none of our product candidates have received regulatory approval from the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority. The regulatory approval process typically is extremely expensive, takes many years, and the timing or likelihood of any approval cannot be accurately predicted. Delays in obtaining regulatory approval can be extremely costly in terms of lost sales opportunities and increased clinical trial costs. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval for our current or future product candidates or expanded indications for currently marketed products, we will be unable to market and sell such products and indications and therefore may never be profitable. As part of the regulatory approval process, we must conduct clinical trials for each product candidate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. The number of clinical trials that will be required varies depending on the product candidate, the indication being evaluated, the trial results, and the regulations applicable to any particular product candidate. The results of initial clinical trials of our product candidates do not necessarily predict the results of later-stage clinical trials. Product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy despite having progressed through initial clinical trials. The data collected from the clinical trials of our product candidates may not be sufficient to support FDA or other regulatory approval. In addition, the continuation of a particular study after review by an IRB or independent data safety monitoring board does not necessarily indicate that our product candidate will achieve the clinical endpoint. The FDA and other regulatory agencies can delay, limit or deny approval for many reasons, including: · A product candidate may not be deemed to be safe or effective; · The manufacturing processes or facilities we have selected may not meet the applicable requirements; and · Changes in their approval policies or adoption of new regulations may require additional clinical trials or other data. Any delay in, or failure to receive, approval for any of our product candidates could prevent us from growing our revenues or achieving profitability. We are dependent on third-party suppliers of raw materials for our products, the loss of whom could impair our ability to manufacture and sell our products. Medical grade, cross-linked polycarbophil, the polymer used in our BDS-based products is currently available from only one supplier, Noveon, Inc., or Noveon. We believe that Noveon will supply as much of the material as we require because our products rank among the highest value-added uses of the polymer. In the event that Noveon cannot or will not supply enough of the product to satisfy our needs, we will be required to seek alternative sources of polycarbophil. An alternative source of polycarbophil may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all, which would impair our ability to manufacture and sell our products. 26 We currently purchase progesterone and testosterone for our products from only one supplier. If that supplier is unable or unwilling to satisfy our needs, we will be required to seek alternative sources of supply. While several alternative sources of progesterone and testosterone exist, the time needed to obtain regulatory approvals for new suppliers may impair our ability to manufacture and sell our products. We are dependent upon third-party developers and manufacturers, the loss of which could result in a loss of revenues. We rely on third parties to develop and manufacture our products, including Fleet, which manufacturers our vaginal gel products in bulk, Maropack, which fills our vaginal gel products into applicators and Mipharm which manufacturers STRIANT®. These third parties may not be able to satisfy our needs in the future, and we may not be able to find or obtain FDA approval of alternate developers and manufacturers. Delays in the development and manufacture of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business. This reliance on third parties could have an adverse effect on our profit margins. Any interruption in the manufacture of our products would impair our ability to deliver our products to customers on a timely and competitive basis, and could result in the loss of revenues. The loss of our key executives could have a significant impact on our company. Our success depends in large part upon the abilities and continued service of our executive officers and other key employees. Our employment agreements with our executive officers are terminable by them on short notice. The loss of key employees may result in a significant loss in the knowledge and experience that we, as an organization, possess, and could cause significant delays in, or outright failure of, the development and commercialization of our products and product candidates. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified and talented senior management personnel, our business may suffer. We may be limited in our use of our net operating loss carryforwards. As of December 31, 2007, we had certain net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $157.3 million that may be used to reduce our future U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Our ability to use these loss carryforwards to reduce our future U.S. federal income tax liabilities could be lost if we were to experience more than a 50% change in ownership within the meaning of Section 382(g) of the Internal Revenue Code. If we were to lose the benefits of these loss carryforwards, our future earnings and cash resources would be materially and adversely affected. The price of our Common Stock has been and may continue to be volatile. Historically, the market price of our Common Stock has fluctuated over a wide range. In fiscal year 2006, our Common Stock traded in a range from $2.53 to $5.98 per share. In fiscal year 2007, our Common Stock traded in a range from $1.04 to $5.25 per share. It is likely that the price of our Common Stock will fluctuate in the future. The market prices of securities of small specialty pharmaceutical companies, including ours, from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations. In particular, the market price of our Common Stock may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, including: the results of clinical trials for our product candidates; FDA’s determination with respect to new drug applications for new products and new indications; and our ability to develop additional products. In addition, the occurrence of any of the risks described in these “Risk Factors” could have a material and adverse impact on the market price of our Common Stock. 27 Sales of large amounts of Common Stock may adversely affect our market price. The issuance of preferred stock or convertible debt may adversely affect rights of common stockholders. As of March 3, 2008, we had 51,961,789 shares of Common Stock outstanding, of which 51,482,724 shares were freely tradable by non-affiliates. As of that date, approximately 479,065 shares of Common Stock were restricted or held by affiliates. We also have the following securities outstanding: series B convertible preferred stock, series C convertible preferred stock, series E convertible preferred stock, convertible subordinated notes, warrants, and options. If all of these securities are exercised or converted, an additional 21,098,776 shares of Common Stock will be outstanding, all of which will have been registered for resale under the Securities Act. The exercise and conversion of these securities is likely to dilute the book value per share of our Common Stock. In addition, the existence of these securities may adversely affect the terms on which we can obtain additional equity financing. In March 2002, our Board of Directors authorized shares of series D junior participating preferred stock in connection with its adoption of a stockholder rights plan, under which we issued rights to purchase series D convertible preferred stock to holders of our Common Stock. Upon certain triggering events, such rights become exercisable to purchase shares of Common Stock (or, in the discretion of our Board of Directors, series D convertible preferred stock) at a price substantially discounted from the then current market price of our Common Stock. Under our certificate of incorporation, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 1.0 million shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. In addition, we may issue convertible debt without shareholder approval. The rights of the holders of Common Stock are subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any shares of preferred stock or convertible debt that may be issued in the future. While we have no present intention to authorize or issue any additional series of preferred stock or convertible debt, such preferred stock or convertible debt, if authorized and issued, may have other rights, including economic rights senior to the Common Stock, and, as a result, their issuance could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our Common Stock. We have a substantial amount of debt. As of December 31, 2007, we had outstanding approximately $40 million principal amount of our convertible debt due December 31, 2011. In addition, as of December 31, 2007 we had remaining future minimum payments due to PharmaBio pursuant to certain financing agreements of approximately $20.5 million. On February 29, 2008, the Company paid $3.6 million of this obligation. Our annual interest expense is more than $8 million of which approximately $3.2 million is the annual cash portion of the expense relating to the convertible debt, for the next four years. Unless we generate substantial additional sales from our products or raise substantial additional capital, we may not be able to pay the interest on our debt or repay our debt at maturity. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. We are a relatively small company and we rely heavily on third parties to conduct many important functions. As a pharmaceutical company, we are subject to a large body of legal and regulatory requirements. In addition, as a publicly traded company we are subject to significant regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, some of which have either only recently been adopted or are currently proposals subject to change. We cannot assure you that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with all potentially applicable laws and regulations could lead to the imposition of fines, cause the value of our common stock to decline, impede our ability to raise capital or lead to the de-listing of our stock. 28 We could be negatively impacted by future interpretation or implementation of federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws, false claims laws and federal and state anti-referral laws. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws, false claims laws and physician self-referral laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and veterans’ health programs. We have not been challenged by a governmental authority under any of these laws and believe that our operations are in compliance with such laws. However, because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, we may be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Health care fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor, inadvertent irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that the law has been violated. Any violations of these laws could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could become subject to false claims litigation under federal or state statutes, which can lead to civil money penalties, criminal fines and imprisonment, and/or exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. These false claims statutes include the federal False Claims Act, which allows any person to bring suit alleging the false or fraudulent submission of claims for payment under federal programs or other violations of the statute and to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. Such suits, known as qui tam actions, have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that companies like us may have to defend a false claim action. We could also become subject to similar false claims litigation under state statutes. If we are unsuccessful in defending any such action, such action may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Anti-takeover provisions could impede or discourage a third-party acquisition of our company. This could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium over market price for their stock. We are a Delaware corporation. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various obstacles to the ability of a third party to acquire control of our company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our Board of Directors has adopted a stockholder rights plan and has designated a series of preferred stock that could be used defensively if a takeover is threatened. Our incorporation under Delaware law, our stockholder rights plan, and our ability to issue additional series of preferred stock, could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving our company or discourage a potential acquiror from making a tender offer for our Common Stock. This could reduce the market value of our Common Stock if investors view these factors as preventing stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. We are exposed to market risk from foreign currency exchange rates. With two operating subsidiaries and third party manufacturers in Europe, economic and political developments in the European Union can have a significant impact on our business. All of our products are currently manufactured in Europe. We are exposed to currency fluctuations related to payment for the manufacture of our products in Euros and other currencies and selling them in U.S. dollars and other currencies. 29 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 