Item 1A. Risk Factors We may fail to obtain new contracts or renew the existing contracts of our wholly-owned subsidiary, Molecular Profiles, which may adversely affect our business. Many of Molecular Profiles’ contracts with its customers are short-term in duration. As a result, we must continually replace those contracts with new contracts. In the event we are unable to replace these contracts in a timely manner or at all, our revenues may not be able to be sustained or may decline. In addition, certain of Molecular Profile’s long-term contracts may be cancelled or delayed by clients for any reason upon notice. Multiple cancellations, non-renewals, or renewals on less favorable terms to us related to significant contracts could materially impact our business. While we intend to seek to negotiate new or extended agreements, if new contracts cannot be completed or existing contracts extended on terms acceptable to us or at all, our business, results of operation and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Uncertainty about our acquisition of Molecular Profiles may adversely affect our relationships with our respective customers, suppliers and employees. As a result of our acquisition of Molecular Profiles, existing or prospective customers or suppliers of Molecular Profiles or the Company may: • Delay, defer or cease purchasing goods or services from or providing goods or services to us; • Delay or defer other decisions concerning us or refuse to extend credit to us; or, • Otherwise seek to change the terms on which they do business with us. Any such delays or changes to terms could seriously harm our business. In addition, as a result of the acquisition, current and prospective employees of Molecular Profile could experience uncertainty about their future with us. These uncertainties may impair our ability to retain, recruit or motivate key personnel. If our internal controls and disclosure controls are not effective, investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of their internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting and our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting. As described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our management recently identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, which led to an overstatement of the change in fair value of our outstanding common stock warrants for the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2013, and affected, among other things, our reported net (loss) income and net (loss) income per common share (basic and diluted). The identification of this error resulted in the restatement of our unaudited interim consolidated financial statements for such periods (the “Restatement”). In connection with the Restatement, our management reevaluated our internal controls over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures and concluded that such controls were not effective as of September 30, 2013, nor were they effective as of December 31, 2013. Our management has begun taking steps to develop a plan and timetable for the implementation of remediation measures (to the extent not already implemented). We believe that these actions will remediate the control deficiency we have identified and strengthen our internal control over financial reporting. Although we have begun the process of remediating the material weakness, this process will take time, and we will not be able 17 Table of Contents to assert that we have remediated the material weakness until the procedures that we put in place have been working for a sufficient period of time for us to determine that they are effective. Although we believe we are taking appropriate actions to remediate the internal control deficiency we have identified, we cannot assure you that we will not discover other material weaknesses in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our annual or periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements, and substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify these or other internal control deficiencies. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly, and our business and financial condition could be harmed. Our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could also result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities or litigation, and our failure to meet our annual or periodic reporting obligations could result in our common stock being delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market. Our business is dependent on the continued sale of Progesterone Products to Merck Serono. Our operating results are dependent on the product revenues from Merck Serono derived from the sale of CRINONE in countries outside the U.S. Revenues from the sales to Merck Serono during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 constituted approximately 73%, 67% and 34% of our total revenues, respectively. We do not control the amount and timing of marketing resources that Merck Serono may or may not devote to our product. The failure of Merck Serono to effectively market our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our license and supply agreement with Merck Serono expires on May 19, 2020. Through the acquisition of Molecular Profiles, we have made significant capital investments with regard to the facilities acquired to meet our potential future needs and, as a result, if we are not able to utilize the facilities to capacity, our margins could be adversely affected. We have made substantial investments in our facilities located in Nottingham, United Kingdom. With the acquisition of these facilities, our fixed costs have increased. In particular, Molecular Profiles completed the expansion of its development and manufacturing capacity to support expected growth in this area of our business. If development or supply agreements do not generate the revenues that we expect, we may have excess fixed costs associated with our increased development and manufacturing capacity due to the expansion, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We may be unable to successfully integrate the business of Molecular Profiles and realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. The integration of Molecular Profiles will continue to require the significant devotion of management and other resources. Delays in this process could adversely affect our business, financial results, financial condition, and stock price. Realizing the anticipated benefits of the acquisition will depend, in part, on the successful integration of operations, personnel and technology of Molecular Profiles into our company. If we are unable to successfully integrate Molecular Profiles’ business into our business in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the operating synergies and cost savings anticipated to result from the acquisition, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Potential difficulties the combined Company may encounter in the integration process include the following: • Lost revenues and customers as a result of Molecular Profiles’ customers deciding not to do business with the combined company; 18 Table of Contents • The inability to procure goods and services on favorable terms as a result of our suppliers or Molecular Profile’s suppliers deciding not to do business with the combined company; • The inability to retain, recruit or motivate key personnel; • Managing the complexities associated with the combined businesses; • Difficulties associated with integrating personnel from diverse corporate cultures while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality services and customer service; • Potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the integration process; • Performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management’s attention to the integration process; • Disruption or interruption of, or loss of momentum in, our ongoing business; and, • Inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, policies, and regulatory reporting. Any of these difficulties could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with suppliers, customers and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the combined company. Even if we are able to integrate Molecular Profile’s business operations successfully with ours, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible from this integration and these benefits may not be achieved within a reasonable period of time. Charges to earnings resulting from the application of the acquisition method of accounting may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, the acquisition is being accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting, which will result in charges to earnings that could have an adverse impact on the market value of our common stock. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total purchase price has been allocated to Molecular Profiles’ net tangible and identifiable intangible assets based on their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. Any excess of the purchase price over those fair values is being recorded as goodwill. The combined company will incur additional amortization expense related to the identifiable amortizable intangible assets acquired. Additionally, to the extent the value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets or other long-lived assets become impaired, the combined company will be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment. These amortization and potential impairment charges could have a material impact on the combined company’s results of operations. The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The market prices and volume of securities of small specialty pharmaceutical companies, including ours, from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations. Historically, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated over a wide range. Between 2011 and 2013, our common stock traded in a range from $4.41 to $34.48 per share. In 2013, our common stock traded in a range from $4.49 to $8.37 per share. It is likely that the price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. In particular, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, including: the results of operations and our ability to develop additional products and services. In addition, the occurrence of any of the risks described in these “Risk Factors” could have a material and adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. 19 Table of Contents A decline in the price of our common stock could affect our ability to raise further working capital and adversely impact our ability to continue operations. Any sudden or prolonged decline in the price of our common stock could result in a reduction in the liquidity of our common stock and a reduction in our ability to raise capital. Such reductions may force us to reallocate funds from other planned uses and may have a significant negative impact on our business plans and operations, including our ability to invest in growing our services, developing our own proprietary technologies and product candidates and continuing our current operations. If we are unable to raise sufficient capital in the future, and we are unable to generate funds from operations sufficient to meet our obligations, we will not have the resources to continue our normal operations. We face increased competition, which could adversely affect the operating results of our business We compete directly with the in-house research departments of pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, as well as contract research companies, and research and academic institutions. We also experience significant competition from foreign companies operating under lower cost structures. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have. As new companies enter the market and as more advanced technologies become available, we currently expect to face increased competition. In the future, any one of our competitors may develop technological advances that render the services that we provide obsolete. While we plan to develop technologies, which will give us competitive advantages, our competitors plan to do the same. We may not be able to develop the technologies we need to successfully compete in the future, and our competitors may be able to develop such technologies before we do or provide those services at a lower cost. Consequently, we may not be able to successfully compete in the future. Any significant change in government regulation of the drug development process could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The manufacturing of pharmaceutical products is subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities, including the FDA, Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (“MHRA”), the European Medicines Agency (“EMA”) and comparable regulatory authorities in other countries. Our business, as well as our customers’ business, depends in part on strict government regulation of the drug development process. Legislation may be introduced and enacted to modify existing regulations or impose new regulations to be administered by the FDA, MHRA or the EMA governing the manufacture of drugs and the drug approval process. Any significant change in regulations governing the manufacture of clinical trial drugs or reduction in the scope of regulatory requirements or the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures could have a material adverse effect our business. Our progesterone delivery patent for CRINONE expired in 2013 in the U.S. and expires in 2014 outside the U.S. and a generic product to CRINONE may become available. Our U.S. progesterone delivery patent for the current formulation of CRINONE expired in September 2013. These patent expirations could enable a generic bioadhesive progesterone vaginal gel product to enter the infertility marketplace. Actavis has developed a next generation progesterone product utilizing a new applicator. We have no assurance this development will prevent new competitors from entering the market. However due to the clinical and regulatory hurdles that a potential generic competitor would likely face, we believe the risk of generic entry is not high. Outside the U.S., we hold patents on the delivery system for CRINONE in the following countries in which sales of CRINONE are material: Australia, Canada, Ireland, Italy, Russia, and the United Kingdom, which patents expire in September 2014. We do not hold patents on the delivery system for CRINONE in the following countries in which sales of CRINONE are material: Brazil, China, India, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, and Vietnam. Merck Serono holds marketing authorizations for CRINONE in over 60 countries outside the United States. 20 Table of Contents We face significant competition from pharmaceutical companies that may adversely impact our market share. Our marketing partners compete against established pharmaceutical companies that market products addressing similar needs. Further, the pharmaceutical development services that we offer are also offered by numerous larger companies that may have better technology, products and services that compete with our present and proposed product and service offerings. Some of these competitors may possess greater financial, research and technical resources than our company or our partners. Moreover, these companies may possess greater marketing capabilities than our company or our partners, including the resources to implement extensive advertising campaigns. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to change as new drug delivery technologies are developed, new products enter the market, generic versions of existing drugs become available, and service and technology offerings evolve to reflect these and other medical research discoveries. We face significant competition in all areas of our business. The rapid pace of change in the pharmaceutical industry continually creates new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups, and can quickly render existing products and services less valuable. Customer requirements and physician and patient preferences continually change as new treatment options emerge, are more or less heavily promoted, and become less expensive. As a result, we may not gain, and may lose, market share. The loss of our key executives could have a significant impact on us. Our success depends in large part upon the abilities and continued service of our executive officers and other key employees. Our employment agreements with our executive officers are terminable by either party on short notice. The loss of key employees may result in a significant loss in the knowledge and experience that we, as an organization, possess, and could cause significant delays in, or outright failure of, the management of our supply chain, our pharmaceutical development, analytical and consulting services business and, or, our development of future products and product candidates. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified and talented senior management personnel, our business may suffer. Our products could demonstrate hormone replacement risks. In the past, certain studies of female hormone replacement therapy products, such as estrogen, have reported an increase in health risks. Progesterone is a natural female hormone present at normal levels in most women through their lifetimes. However, some women require progesterone supplementation due to a natural or chemical-related progesterone deficiency. It is possible that data suggesting risks or problems may come to light in the future that could demonstrate a health risk associated with progesterone or progestin supplementation or our 8% and 4% progesterone gels. It is also possible that future study results for hormone replacement therapy could be negative and could result in negative publicity about the risks and benefits of hormone replacement therapy. As a result, physicians and patients may not wish to prescribe or use progestins, including progesterone gels. Healthcare insurers and other payors may not pay for our products or may impose limits on reimbursement. The ability of our partners to commercialize our prescription products will depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for our products is available from third-party payors, such as health maintenance organizations, health insurers and other public and private payors. If we or our partners succeed in bringing new prescription products to market or expand the approved label for existing products, we cannot be assured that third-party payors will pay for such products, or establish and maintain price levels sufficient for realization of an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Government health agencies, private health maintenance organizations and other third-party payors use one or more of multiple tools including price controls, profit or reimbursement caps, and use of formularies, or lists 21 Table of Contents of drugs for which coverage is provided under a healthcare benefit plan, to control the costs of prescription drugs. Each payor that maintains a drug formulary makes its own determination as to whether a new drug will be added to the formulary and whether particular drugs in a therapeutic class will have preferred status over other drugs in the same class. This determination often involves an assessment of the clinical appropriateness of the drug and, in some cases, the cost of the drug in comparison to alternative products. Our products marketed by our partners from which we derive sales revenues and royalties may not be added to payors’ formularies, our products may not have preferred status to alternative therapies, and formulary decisions may not be conducted in a timely manner. Once reimbursement at an agreed level is approved by a payor organization, reimbursement may be lost entirely or be reduced compared to competitive products. As reimbursement is often approved for a period of time, this risk is greater at the end of the time period, if any, for which the reimbursement was approved. Our partners may also decide to enter into discount or formulary fee arrangements with payors, which could result in lower or discounted prices for CRINONE or future products. Healthcare law and policy changes, based on recently enacted legislation, may have a material adverse effect on us. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or collectively, PPACA, became law in the U.S. PPACA substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers and significantly affects the pharmaceutical industry. Most notably, the PPACA increased Medicaid rebates, expanded Medicaid eligibility, extended Public Health Service eligibility, imposed annual reporting requirements on certain entities, including pharmaceutical companies, to disclose certain financial relationships with physicians and teaching hospitals, and established a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute, an entity charged with examining the relative health outcomes, clinical, effectiveness and appropriateness of difficult medical treatments. Many of these provisions could have the effect of reducing our revenue generated by our partners’ sales of CRINONE and any future commercial products we may develop. In addition, we anticipate that the PPACA, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and an additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product, which may harm our business. Insurers may also refuse to provide any coverage of uses of approved products for medical indications other than those for which the FDA has granted market approvals. We are dependent on single-source third-party suppliers of raw materials for our products, the loss of whom could impair our ability to manufacture and sell our products. Medical grade, cross-linked polycarbophil, the polymer used in our BDS-based products is currently available from only one supplier, Lubrizol. We believe that Lubrizol will supply as much of the material as we require because our products rank among the highest value-added uses of the polymer. In the event that Lubrizol cannot or will not supply enough of the product to satisfy our needs, we will be required to seek alternative sources of polycarbophil. An alternative source of polycarbophil may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all, which would impair our ability to manufacture and sell our products. While we purchase polycarbophil from Lubrizol, Inc. from time to time, we do not have an agreement with them concerning future purchases. The Company’s policy is to have in inventory at least a 12 month supply of polycarbophil. Only one supplier of progesterone is approved by regulatory authorities outside the U.S. If our supplier is unable or unwilling to satisfy our needs, we will be required to seek alternative sources of supply. While alternative sources of progesterone exist, the time needed to obtain regulatory approvals for new suppliers may impair our ability to manufacture and sell our products. We are dependent upon single-source third-party manufacturers, the loss of which could result in a loss of revenues. We rely on third parties to manufacture our products, including Fleet, which manufacturers CRINONE in bulk, Maropack, which fills CRINONE into applicators, and Central Pharma, which packages CRINONE in final 22 Table of Contents containers. These third parties may not be able to satisfy our needs in the future, and we may not be able to find or obtain FDA approval of alternate developers and manufacturers. Delays in the manufacture of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business. This reliance on third parties could have an adverse effect on our profit margins. Any interruption in the manufacture of our products would impair our ability to deliver our products to customers on a timely and competitive basis, and could result in the loss of revenues. We may be exposed to product liability claims. We could be exposed to future product liability claims by consumers. Although we presently maintain product liability insurance coverage at what we believe is a commercially reasonable level, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all possible liabilities. An award against us in an amount greater than our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Steps taken by us to protect our proprietary rights might not be adequate; in which case, competitors may infringe on our rights or develop similar products. The U.S. and foreign patents upon which our original BDS was based have expired. Our success and competitive position are partially dependent on our ability to protect our proprietary position for our technology, products and product candidates. We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws, third-party confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements, and other methods to protect our proprietary rights. The steps we take to protect our proprietary rights, however, may not be adequate. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our patents, copyrights, trademarks, and similar proprietary rights. Moreover, we may not be able or willing, for financial, legal or other reasons, to enforce our rights. Bio-Mimetics, Inc. (“Bio-Mimetics”) originally held the patent upon which our original BDS was based until we purchased it from them. Bio-Mimetics’ patent contained broad claims covering controlled release products that include a bioadhesive. However, this U.S. patent and its corresponding foreign patents expired in November 2003 and 2004, respectively. Based upon the expiration of the original Bio-Mimetics patent, other parties will be permitted to make, use or sell products covered by the claims of the Bio-Mimetics patent, subject to other patents, including those which we hold. We have obtained numerous patents with claims covering improved methods of formulating and delivering therapeutic compounds using the BDS. Some of these patents expired in 2013 for the U.S. and expire in 2014 for the rest of the world. We cannot assure you that any remaining patents will enable us to prevent infringement, or that our competitors will not develop alternative methods of delivering compounds, potentially resulting in competitive products outside the protection that may be afforded by our patents. Other companies may independently develop or obtain patent or similar rights to equivalent or superior technologies or processes. Additionally, although we believe that our patented technology has been independently developed and does not infringe on the proprietary rights of others, we cannot assure you that our products do not and will not infringe on the proprietary rights of others. In the event of infringement, we may be required to modify our technology or products, obtain licenses or pay license fees. We may not be able to do so in a timely manner or upon acceptable terms and conditions. This may have a material adverse effect on our operations. The standards that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. Limitations on patent protection in some countries outside the U.S., and the differences in what constitutes patentable subject matter in these countries, may limit the protection we seek outside of the U.S. For example, methods of treating humans are not patentable subject matter in many countries outside of the U.S. In addition, laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as would laws of the U.S. In determining whether or not to seek a patent or to license any patent in a particular foreign country, we weigh the relevant costs and benefits, and consider, among other things, the market potential of our product candidates in the jurisdiction and the scope and enforceability of patent protection afforded by the law of the jurisdiction. 23 Table of Contents We are subject to government regulation, which could affect our partners’ ability to sell products. Nearly every aspect of the development, manufacture and commercialization of pharmaceutical products is subject to time-consuming and costly regulation by various governmental entities, including the MHRA, as well as regulatory agencies in those foreign countries in which our products are manufactured or distributed. The National Drug agencies may have the power to seize adulterated or misbranded products and unapproved new drugs, to require their recall from the market, to enjoin further manufacture or sale, and to publicize certain facts concerning a product. We employ various quality control measures in our efforts to ensure that our products conform to their intended specifications and meet the standards required under applicable governmental regulations. Notwithstanding our efforts, our products or the ingredients we purchase from our suppliers for inclusion in our products may contain undetected defects or non-conformities with specifications. Such defects or non-conformities could compel us to recall the affected product, make changes to or restrict distribution of the product, or take other remedial actions. The occurrence of such events may harm our relations with or result in the loss of customers, injure our reputation, impair market acceptance of our products, harm our financial results, and, in certain circumstances, expose us to product liability or other claims. The potential development of our pharmaceutical products is uncertain and subject to a number of significant risks. In order to develop future pharmaceutical products, we must complete extensive human clinical trials that demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product in order to apply for regulatory approval to market the product. The process of developing product candidates involves a degree of risk and may take several years. Product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development may fail to reach the market for several reasons, including: • Clinical trials may show our product candidates to be ineffective for the indications studied or to have harmful side effects; • Product candidates may fail to receive regulatory approvals required to bring the products to market; • Manufacturing costs or other factors may make our product candidates uneconomical; • The proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies may prevent our product candidates from being effectively commercialized; and • Our ability to attract development and commercialization partners. Success in early clinical trials does not ensure that large-scale clinical trials will be successful. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. The speed with which we can complete clinical trials and applications for marketing approval will depend on several factors, including the following: • The rate of patient enrollment which is a function of factors including the size of the patient population, competing clinical studies, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study, and the nature of the study protocol; • Institutional Review Board, or IRB, approval of the study protocol and the informed consent form; • Prior regulatory agency review and approval; • Analysis of data obtained from clinical activities, which are susceptible to varying interpretations and which interpretations could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval; 24 Table of Contents • Changes in the policies of regulatory authorities for drug approval during the period of product development; and • The availability of skilled and experienced staff to conduct and monitor clinical studies and to prepare the appropriate regulatory applications. In addition, developing product candidates is very expensive and could continue to have a significant impact on our ability to generate profits. Factors affecting our product development expenses include: • Our ability to raise any additional funds, if needed, to complete our trials; • The number and outcome of clinical trials conducted by us and/or our collaborators; • The number of products we may have in clinical development; • In licensing or other partnership activities, including the timing and amount of related development funding, license fees or milestone payments; and • Future levels of our revenue. Clinical trials are expensive and can take years to complete, and there is no guarantee that the clinical trials will demonstrate sufficient safety and/or efficacy of the products to meet FDA requirements, or those of foreign regulatory authorities. Delays or failures in obtaining regulatory approvals may delay or prevent marketing of the products that we develop. The regulatory approval process typically is extremely expensive, takes many years, and the timing or likelihood of any approval cannot be accurately predicted. Delays in obtaining regulatory approval can be extremely costly in terms of lost sales opportunities and increased clinical trial costs. If we or our partners fail to obtain regulatory approval for our future product candidates or expanded indications for currently marketed products, we will be unable to receive income from the sale of such products and indications. As part of the regulatory approval process, we and our partners must conduct clinical trials for each product candidate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. The number of clinical trials that will be required varies depending on the product candidate, the indication being evaluated, the trial results, and the regulations applicable to such particular product candidate. The results of initial clinical trials of product candidates do not necessarily predict the results of later-stage clinical trials. Product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy despite having progressed through initial clinical trials. The data collected from the clinical trials of our product candidates may not be sufficient to support FDA or other regulatory approval. In addition, the continuation of a particular study after review by an IRB or independent data safety monitoring board does not necessarily indicate that a product candidate will achieve the clinical endpoint. The FDA and other regulatory agencies can delay, limit or deny approval for many reasons, including: • A product candidate may not be deemed to be safe or effective; • The manufacturing processes or facilities selected may not meet the applicable requirements; and • Changes in their approval policies or adoption of new regulations may require additional clinical trials, other data or removal from the market. Any delay in, or failure to receive, approval for any of our product candidates could prevent us from growing our revenues or sustaining profitability. 25 Table of Contents We may observe adverse side effects of our future potential product candidates in clinical trials, which could delay or halt product development. Our future potential product candidates may demonstrate serious adverse side effects in clinical trials. These adverse side effects could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of product candidates and could result in FDA or other regulatory authorities denying approval of product candidates for any or all targeted indications. An IRB or independent data safety monitoring board, the FDA, other regulatory authorities, or we ourselves or our customers may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time. Product candidates may prove not to be safe for human use. In such circumstances we may not be able to complete development and successful licensing of our own internal programs and our customers may not place additional contracts with us and may cancel existing contracts. We may be limited in our use of our net operating loss carryforwards. As of December 31, 2013, we had certain net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $160 million that may be used to reduce our future U.S. federal income tax liabilities, if we become profitable on a federal income tax basis. If unused, these tax loss carryforwards will begin to expire between 2018 and 2034. Our ability to use these loss carryforwards to reduce our future U.S. federal income tax liabilities could also be lost if we were to experience more than a 50% change in ownership within the meaning of Section 382(g) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (“Code”), as amended. If we were to lose the benefits of these loss carryforwards, our future earnings and cash resources would be materially and adversely affected. On November 29, 2010, we amended and restated our Rights Agreement, dated as of March 13, 2002, as amended (the “Rights Plan”). The Rights Plan is intended to preserve the value of our net operating loss carryforwards by reducing the likelihood that we will experience an ownership change by discouraging (i) any person (together with such person’s affiliates and associates), without the approval of our board of directors from acquiring 4.99% or greater of our outstanding voting stock (as defined in the Rights Plan) and (ii) any person that currently beneficially owns 4.99% or more of the outstanding voting stock from acquiring more shares of our voting stock, other than by exercise or conversion of currently existing warrants, convertible securities or other equity-linked securities. On September 20, 2011 we further amended the Rights Plan to extend the expiration date from March 12, 2012 to July 3, 2013. On May 1, 2013, we further amended the Rights Plan to extend the expiration date from July 3, 2013 to July 3, 2016. There is no guarantee that the Rights Plan will prevent an ownership change within the meaning of Section 382(g) of the Internal Revenue Code and therefore, no guarantee that the value of our net operating loss carryforwards will be preserved. Sales of large amounts of our common stock may adversely affect our market price. The issuance of preferred stock or convertible debt may adversely affect the rights of our common stockholders. As of March 1, 2014, we had 12,155,461 shares of common stock outstanding, of which 10,122,800 shares were freely tradable. As of that date, approximately 2,032,661 shares of our common stock were held by affiliates. We also have the following securities outstanding: series B convertible preferred stock, contingently redeemable series C convertible preferred stock, common stock warrants, and options. If all of these securities are exercised or converted, an additional 1.6 million shares of our common stock will be outstanding, all of which will be available for resale under the Securities Act. The exercise and conversion of these securities would likely dilute the book value per share of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these securities may adversely affect the terms on which we can obtain additional equity financing. In March 2002, our Board of Directors authorized shares of series D junior participating preferred stock in connection with its adoption of a stockholder rights plan (as discussed above, this plan was amended and restated on November 29, 2010), under which we issued rights to purchase series D convertible preferred stock to holders of our common stock. Upon certain triggering events, such rights become exercisable to purchase shares of our common stock (or, in the discretion of our Board of Directors, series D convertible preferred stock) at a price substantially discounted from the then current market price of our common stock. 26 Table of Contents Under our certificate of incorporation, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 1.0 million shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. In addition, we may issue convertible debt without shareholder approval. The rights of the holders of our common stock are subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any shares of preferred stock or convertible debt that may be issued in the future. While we have no present intention to authorize or issue any additional series of preferred stock or convertible debt, such preferred stock or convertible debt, if authorized and issued, may have other rights, including economic rights senior to our common stock, and, as a result, their issuance could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. We are a small company and we rely heavily on third parties to conduct many important functions. As a pharmaceutical development and services company, we are subject to a large body of legal and regulatory requirements. In addition, as a publicly traded company we are subject to significant regulations. We cannot assure you that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with all potentially applicable laws and regulations could lead to the imposition of fines, cause the value of our common stock to decline, impede our ability to raise capital or lead to the de-listing of our stock. Anti-takeover provisions could impede or discourage a third-party acquisition of the Company. This could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium over market price for their stock. We are a Delaware corporation. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various obstacles to the ability of a third party to acquire control of our company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our Board of Directors has adopted a stockholder rights plan (as discussed above, this plan was amended and restated on November 29, 2010, extended on September 20, 2011, and extended further on May 1, 2013) and has designated a series of preferred stock that could be used defensively if a takeover is threatened. Our incorporation under Delaware law, our stockholder rights plan, and our ability to issue additional series of preferred stock, could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving our company or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock. This could reduce the market value of our common stock if investors view these factors as preventing stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. Our operations involve hazardous materials and are subject to environmental, health and safety controls and regulations. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials, and we spend considerable time complying with such laws and regulations. Our business activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and although we take precautions to prevent accidental contamination or injury from these materials, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of using these materials. In the event of an accident or environmental discharge, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, which may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to market risk from foreign currency exchange rates. With four international subsidiaries and third party manufacturers in Europe, economic and political developments in the European Union, including the ongoing European debt problems, can have a significant impact on our business. All of our products are currently manufactured in Europe. We are exposed to currency fluctuations related to payment for the manufacture of our products in Euros and other currencies and selling them in U.S. dollars and other currencies. 27 Table of Contents We could be negatively impacted by securities class action complaints. Between February 1, 2012 and February 6, 2012, two putative securities class action complaints were filed against us and certain of our officers and directors in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey. These actions were filed under the captions Wright v. Columbia Laboratories, Inc., et al., and Shu v. Columbia Laboratories, Inc., et al and asserted claims under sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 promulgated under the Exchange Act on behalf of an alleged class of purchasers of the our common stock during the period from December 6, 2010 through January 20, 2012. Both actions were consolidated into a single proceeding entitled In re Columbia Laboratories, Inc., Securities Litigation, under which Actavis, Inc., and three of its officers have been added as defendants. The Consolidated Amended Complaint alleged that we and two of our officers, one of whom is a director, omitted to state material facts that they were under a duty to disclose, and made materially false and misleading statements that related to the results of Columbia’s PREGNANT study and the likelihood of approval by the FDA of an NDA to market progesterone vaginal gel 8% for the prevention of preterm birth in women with premature cervical shortening. According to the amended complaint, these alleged omissions and misleading statements had the effect of artificially inflating the market price of the common stock. The plaintiffs sought unspecified damages on behalf of the putative class and an award of costs and expenses, including attorney’s fees. On June 11, 2013, the Court dismissed the amended complaint for failure to state a claim upon which relief could be granted, holding that the plaintiffs did not adequately plead facts supporting an inference of intent to deceive investors. The Court permitted the plaintiffs to file a second amended complaint, and they did so on July 11, 2013. We moved to dismiss the second amended complaint. On October 21, 2013, the Court dismissed the second amended complaint. The Court ruled that changes the plaintiffs made to their first amended complaint “still do not create a strong inference that Columbia acted with intent to deceive, manipulate or defraud.” The Court ordered that if the plaintiffs sought to attempt to plead a cognizable action for in third amended complaint, they must do so within thirty days and specifically address why the attempt would not be futile. The plaintiffs chose not to file any further amendments and, on December 20, 2013, appealed the dismissals to the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. The Third Circuit will consider the matter after briefing is completed. We believe that the appealed action is without merit, and we intend to defend it vigorously. At this time, it is not possible to determine the likely outcome of, or estimate the liability related to this action, and Columbia has not made any provision for losses in connection with it. 28 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 