Item 1A. Risk Factors We wish to caution readers that the following important factors, among others, in some cases have affected our results and in the future could cause our actual results and needs to vary materially from forward-looking statements made from time to time by us on the basis of management’s then-current expectations. The business in which we are engaged is in a rapidly changing and competitive market and involves a high degree of risk, and accuracy with respect to forward-looking projections is difficult. Our lead product candidate, Junovan, may never obtain regulatory approval. In October 2006, we submitted an NDA to the FDA for Junovan, requesting approval for its use in the treatment of newly diagnosed resectable high grade osteosarcoma patients following surgical resection in combination with multiple agent chemotherapy. The FDA has accepted the NDA file for substantive review, on a standard review basis, contingent upon our commitment to provide pharmacokinetic data for the to-be-marketed Junovan product. Following the submission of the NDA, we submitted an MAA for Mepact to the EMEA. The EMEA has determined the application is valid and the review procedure was started in late November 2006. The Junovan marketing applications include efficacy and safety data from a Phase III clinical trial conducted by the Pediatric Oncology Group (POG) and the Children’s Oncology Group (COG), sponsored by the Division of Cancer Treatment and Diagnosis of the National Cancer Institute (NCI), prior to our purchase of Junovan from Jenner Biotherapies, Inc. in 2003. Regulatory authorities in the United States and the European Union may not consider preclinical and early clinical development work conducted by Ciba-Geigy and efficacy and safety data from the Phase III clinical trial or the Phase III study conduct and analysis to be adequate for their assessment of Junovan, which may cause delays in review, may result in the regulatory authorities requiring us to conduct additional pre-clinical or clinical trials, or may result in a determination by the regulatory authorities that the data does not support marketing approval. Other risks relating to the timing of regulatory approval of Junovan include our ability and time needed to respond to questions raised during review with regard to regulatory submissions for Junovan. In the United States, the FDA may decide to get the advice of an advisory panel prior to making their decision regarding approval of an NDA, and we have been advised that the Oncology Drugs Advisory Committee of the FDA, or ODAC, will review Junovan. Although the FDA is not bound by the decision of any advisory panel, a recommendation by ODAC that is not supportive of approval of the NDA for Junovan may have a negative impact on the FDA’s decision whether to approve the NDA for Junovan, which would have a material and adverse affect on our business. We may not receive necessary approvals from the FDA, the EMEA or similar drug regulatory agencies for the marketing and commercialization of Junovan when expected or at all. We do not expect any regulatory approval of Junovan to occur before late 2007. Manufacturing of Junovan and Junovan components for IDM by third party suppliers is based on the specifications and processes established during the Phase III trial. We have produced Junovan materials that meet the same specifications as the product used in pivotal clinical trials. We submitted data showing comparability of the new (IDM) and the old (Ciba-Geigy) materials in the NDA and MAA so that the data generated during preclinical and clinical development can be used to support regulatory marketing approval. If the FDA or EMEA does not agree with our assessment of the comparability results, the approval in the intended geographies would be delayed. The development of Junovan suitable for commercial distribution, the review of our marketing approval applications by the FDA and the EMEA and stringent manufacturing requirements have required and will continue to require significant investments of time and money, as well as the focus and attention of key personnel. If we fail to receive or are delayed in receiving regulatory approval for Junovan, our financial condition and results of operations will be significantly and adversely affected. Even if we receive regulatory approval for Junovan, we may not be able to commercialize it immediately or market it successfully. We expect to depend in the medium term on the commercialization of Junovan for the majority of our revenues, assuming that Junovan receives regulatory approval. Junovan is the only product candidate for which we have submitted an MAA. Any revenues generated will be limited by our ability to, in time, develop our own commercial organization or find a partner for the commercialization of the product. In addition, the number of 23 Table of Contents patients with osteosarcoma, the ability to obtain appropriate pricing and reimbursement for Junovan, and the rate of adoption of the products are risks associated with the commercialization of Junovan. We may also face competition from new treatment or new investigational approaches with existing therapies. We currently do not have operational sales and marketing infrastructure for Junovan and may not have secured this capability immediately following receipt of any regulatory approval for Junovan. In order to commercialize Junovan, we need to find a partner who has EU and US operational commercial abilities or otherwise arrange for the commercialization ourselves. If we are unable to commercialize Junovan promptly after receipt of any regulatory approval for Junovan, any delay would materially adversely affect our business and financial position due to reduced or delayed revenues from Junovan sales. Junovan has received orphan drug designation in the United States and in Europe, which would provide us with a seven-year period of exclusive marketing in the United States commencing on the date of FDA approval and a 10-year period of exclusive marketing in Europe commencing on the date of EMEA approval. This would apply only to osteosarcoma, the indication for which Junovan has been designated as an orphan product. However, we may lose this marketing exclusivity should a new treatment be developed which is proven to be more effective than Junovan. In addition, although our patents protect the liposomal formulation of Junovan until 2007 in the United States, with a possible extension until 2012 in the United States, the European patents for the liposomal formulation of Junovan expired in 2005 and certain other patents covering the active ingredient in Junovan expired at the end of 2003. As a result, if a competitor develops a new formulation for Junovan, we may face generic competition following the expiration of market exclusivity under the orphan drug designation, which we expect to occur in 2014 with respect to the United States and 2017 with respect to Europe. If we are not able to commercialize Junovan successfully, we may not bring to market our other product candidates for several years, if ever, and our prospects will be harmed as a result. Our substantial additional capital requirements and potentially limited access to financing may harm our ability to develop products and fund our operations, and if we do not obtain additional funding we may be required to sell our assets or our company, or dissolve and liquidate all of our assets. We will continue to spend substantial amounts on research and development, including amounts spent for manufacturing clinical supplies, conducting clinical trials for our product candidates, advancing development of certain sponsored and partnered programs and the commercialization of Junovan once it has received regulatory approval. While we have taken appropriate steps designed to contain such expenses, we cannot be certain that we will reduce our expenses sufficiently in light of our available funds, and we will nonetheless need to raise additional funding. We do not have committed external sources of funding and may not be able to obtain any additional funding, especially if volatile market conditions persist for biotechnology companies. We believe our existing cash resources, including approximately $12.9 million raised through a private placement of our common stock in February 2007, are sufficient to meet our cash requirements into the second quarter of 2008. Our future operational and capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • whether we are able to secure additional financing on favorable terms, or at all; • The costs associated with, and the success of, obtaining marketing approval and, as applicable, pricing approval, for Junovan for the treatment of osteosarcoma in the United States, Europe and other jurisdictions and the timing of any such approval; • the success or failure of the product launch and commercialization of Junovan; • the costs associated with the launch and the commercialization of Junovan in the United States, Europe and other jurisdictions upon obtaining marketing approval; • the costs associated with our clinical trials for our product candidates, including our Dendritophages and lung cancer vaccine candidates; • progress with other preclinical testing and clinical trials in the future; • our ability to establish and maintain collaboration and license agreements and any government contracts and grants; 24 Table of Contents • the actual revenue we receive under our collaboration and license agreements; • the actual costs we incur under our collaboration agreements; • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals for our products; • the costs involved in filing, prosecuting, enforcing and defending patent claims and any other proprietary rights; • competing technological and market developments; and • the magnitude of our immunotherapeutic product discovery and development programs. We will likely seek additional funding, which may be accomplished through equity or debt financings, government research grants and/or collaboration and license agreements and may also consider various business alternatives, including merger and acquisition transactions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing or accomplish any other business transaction we decide to pursue on terms that are favorable to us or at all. For example, the terms of the February 2007 $12.9 million private placement of our common stock include a right of first refusal in favor of the purchasers in that private placement for certain future equity offerings we may undertake for six months following the effective date of a resale registration statement we have filed in connection with that private placement, as well as various penalties equal to up to approximately $1.6 million on an annual basis that may become due if, among other things, the resale registration statement is not declared effective within 90 days after the date of the closing of the private placement or is not available for resale by the purchasers in the private placement under certain conditions set forth in the unit purchase agreement related to the private placement. In addition, we may not be able to enter into additional collaborations to reduce our funding requirements. If we acquire funds by issuing securities, dilution to existing stockholders will result. If we raise funds through additional collaborations and license agreements, we will likely have to relinquish some or all of the rights to our product candidates or technologies that we may have otherwise developed ourselves. Our failure to obtain additional funding may require us to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our current research and development projects, sell certain of our assets (including one or more of our drug programs or technologies), sell our company, or dissolve and liquidate all of our assets. For example, given constraints on our cash resources, in late 2006 we put on hold further development of Bexidem® and other product candidates as we reallocated existing capital to the development of our lead product candidate, Junovan. If we fail to adequately address our liquidity concerns, then our independent auditors may issue a qualified opinion, to the effect that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. A qualified opinion could itself have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, our failure to raise adequate capital would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and could cause us to discontinue operations or declare bankruptcy. The process of developing immunotherapeutic products requires significant research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials, all of which are extremely expensive and time-consuming and may not result in a commercial product. Our product candidates other than Junovan are at early stages of development, and we may fail to develop and successfully commercialize safe and effective treatments based on these products or other technology. For each product candidate, we must demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans through extensive clinical testing, which is very expensive, can take many years and has an uncertain outcome. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during or as a result of the testing process that could delay or prevent testing or commercialization of our products, including: • the results of preclinical studies may be inconclusive, or they may not be indicative of results that will be obtained in human clinical trials; • after reviewing test results, we may abandon projects that we might previously have believed to be promising; 25 Table of Contents • after reviewing test results, our collaborators may abandon projects that we might believe are still promising and we would either have to bear the operating expenses and capital requirements of continued development of our therapeutic cancer vaccines or abandon the projects outright; • we, our collaborators or government regulators may suspend or terminate clinical trials if the participating subjects or patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; • clinical trials may be delayed as a result of difficulties in identifying and enrolling patients who meet trial eligibility criteria; • safety and efficacy results attained in early human clinical trials may not be indicative of results that are obtained in later clinical trials; and • the effects of our product candidates may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects that preclude regulatory approval or limit their commercial use, if approved. The data collected from clinical trials may not be sufficient to support regulatory approval of any of our products, and the regulatory agencies may not ultimately approve any of our products for commercial sale, which will adversely affect our business and prospects. If we fail to commence or complete, or experience delays in, any of our planned clinical trials, our operating income, stock price and ability to conduct business as currently planned could be materially and adversely affected. Our principal source of revenues and cash receipts is a collaboration agreement under which our partner has limited obligations. The principal source of revenues and cash receipts for us is the July 2001 collaboration agreement between our subsidiary, IDM S.A., and sanofi-aventis. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, on a consolidated basis, sanofi-aventis represented approximately 99% and 80%, respectively, of our revenue. Sanofi-aventis has the remaining option to jointly develop and commercialize up to ten (or up to two per year) of our Cell Drugs, a term we use to refer to therapeutic products derived from a patients own white blood cells through 2011. To date sanofi-aventis has exercised an option for one product candidate, Uvidem. Under the collaboration agreement, sanofi-aventis has no obligation to participate in the development of additional Cell Drugs. If we are not successful in developing commercially viable product candidates, sanofi-aventis may not elect to exercise additional options. If we fail to meet further milestones in the clinical development of Uvidem, sanofi-aventis will have no further milestone obligations with respect to Uvidem. Additionally, sanofi-aventis may terminate its participation in any given development program at any time without penalty and without affecting its unexercised options for other product candidates. If sanofi-aventis does not exercise additional options, or if we are not successful in achieving additional development milestones for Uvidem, we will not receive additional payments from sanofi-aventis and our prospects, revenues and operating cash flows will be significantly and negatively affected. Our revenues and operating results are likely to fluctuate. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past, and our revenues and operating results are likely to continue to do so in the future. This is due to the non-recurring nature of these revenues, which are derived principally from payments made under the collaboration agreement with sanofi-aventis and from government grants and contracts. We expect that our only sources of revenues until commercialization of our first immunotherapy product will be: • any payments from sanofi-aventis and any other current or future collaborative partners; • any government and European Union grants and contracts; and • investment income. These revenues have varied considerably from one period to another and may continue to do so because they depend on the terms of the particular agreement or grant, or the performance of the particular investment. In addition, termination of any of these arrangements would have a significant impact on our prospects, revenues and results of operations. As a result, we believe that revenues in any period may not be a reliable indicator of our future 26 Table of Contents performance. Deviations in our results of operations from those expected by securities analysts or investors also could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our history of operating losses and our expectation of continuing losses may hurt our ability to reach profitability or continue operations. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception. Our cumulative net loss was $178.5 million as of December 31, 2006. It is likely that we will continue to incur substantial net operating losses for the foreseeable future, which may adversely affect our ability to continue operations. We have not generated revenues from the commercialization of any product. All of our revenues to date have consisted of contract research and development revenues, license and milestone payments, research grants, certain asset divestitures and interest income. Substantially all of our revenues for the foreseeable future are expected to result from similar sources. To achieve profitable operations, we, alone or with collaborators, must successfully identify, develop, register and market proprietary products. We do not expect to generate revenues from the commercialization of any product until the end of 2007 at the earliest, assuming that one or more regulatory agencies approve Junovan’s commercialization, which may not occur when expected or at all. We may not be able to generate sufficient product revenue to become profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability on a quarterly or yearly basis. If we lose our key scientific and management personnel or are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, it could delay or hurt our research and product development efforts. We are dependent on the principal members of our scientific and management staff, including Dr. Jean-Loup Romet-Lemonne, Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Bonnie Mills, Vice President, Clinical Operations and General Manager, U.S., and Mr. Hervé Duchesne de Lamotte, Acting Principal Financial and Accounting Officer and General Manager and Vice President Finance, Europe. We have previously entered into employment contracts with the aforementioned scientific and management staff, which we believe provide them incentives to remain as employees with us, although there can be no assurance they will do so. We currently do not have a Chief Financial Officer and Mr. Hervé Duchesne de Lamotte is serving as our principal financial and accounting officer on an interim basis until we hire a Chief Financial Officer. We are currently engaged in a search for a new Chief Financial Officer. We do not maintain key person life insurance on the life of any employee. Our ability to develop immunotherapeutic products and vaccines and achieve our other business objectives also depends in part on the continued service of our key scientific and management personnel and our ability to identify hire and retain additional qualified personnel. We do not have employment agreements with our non-management scientific personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in chemistry, biochemistry, molecular biology, immunology and other areas of our proposed activities, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain such personnel necessary for the development of our business. Because of the intense competition for qualified personnel among technology-based businesses, particularly in the Southern California area, we may not be successful in adding technical personnel as needed to meet the staffing requirements of additional collaborative relationships. Our failure to attract and retain key personnel could delay or be significantly detrimental to our product development programs and could cause our stock price to decline. Unexpected or undesirable side effects or other characteristics of our products and technology may delay or otherwise hurt the development of our drug candidates, or may expose us to significant liability that could cause us to incur significant costs. Certain immunotherapy products may produce serious side effects. Many antibody-based therapies have shown toxicity in clinical trials. If our immunotherapy product candidates prove to be ineffective, or if they result in unacceptable side effects, we will not be able to successfully commercialize them and our prospects will be significantly and adversely affected. In addition, there may be side effects in our current or future clinical trials that may be discovered only after long-term exposure, even though our safety tests may indicate favorable results. We may also encounter technological challenges relating to these technologies and applications in our research and development programs that we may not be able to resolve. Any such unexpected side effects or technological 27 Table of Contents challenges may delay or otherwise adversely affect the development, regulatory approval or commercialization of our drug candidates. Our business will expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of human therapeutic products. While we currently have product liability insurance for our clinical trials, we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or obtain acceptable insurance as we progress through product development and commercialization, or that our insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities, either in human clinical trials or following commercialization of any products we may develop. Adverse publicity regarding the safety or side effects of the technology approach or products of others could negatively impact us and cause the price of our common stock to decline. Despite any favorable safety tests that may be completed with respect to our product candidates, adverse publicity regarding immunotherapeutic products or other products being developed or marketed by others could negatively affect us. If other researchers’ studies raise or substantiate concerns over the safety or side effects of our technology approach or product development efforts generally, our reputation and public support for our clinical trials or products could be harmed, which would adversely impact our business and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our treatment approach may not prove effective. Our immunotherapeutic treatment approach is largely untested. To date, only a limited number of immunotherapeutic antibody-based and vaccine-based products designed to fight cancer have been approved for commercialization, and for only a few specific types of cancer. The basis for most immunotherapeutic treatment approaches being developed for the treatment of cancer is the discovery that cancer cells express more of certain proteins, known as antigens, on their surfaces, which may allow them to be distinguished from normal cells. Immunotherapy is designed either to manipulate the body’s immune cells to target antigens and destroy the cancer cells that over express them or to activate the body’s immune system generally. However, immunotherapy has failed in the past for a number of reasons, including: • the targeted antigens are not sufficiently different from those normal cells to cause an immune reaction; • the tumor cells do not express the targeted antigen or other target structures at all or in sufficient quantities to be recognized by immune system cells, such as T cells or macrophages; • the immune response stimulated by the immunotherapeutic agent is not strong enough to destroy all of the cancer cells; or • cancer cells may, through various biochemical mechanisms, escape an immune response. Our strategy involves identifying multiple epitopes in order to create our vaccines. Unless we identify the correct epitopes and combine them in the correct manner to stimulate desired immune responses, we may never develop a vaccine that is safe or effective in any of the indications that we are pursuing. If we cannot enter into and maintain strategic collaborations on acceptable terms in the future, we may not be able to develop products in markets where it would be too costly or complex to do so on our own. We will need to enter into and maintain collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies or other strategic partners both for development and for commercialization of potential products in markets where it would be too costly or complex to do so on our own. Currently, our most significant collaboration is with sanofi-aventis. If we are not able to maintain our existing strategic collaborations and enter into new collaborations on acceptable terms, we may be forced to abandon development and commercialization of some product candidates and our business will be harmed. 28 Table of Contents If our collaboration or license arrangements are unsuccessful, our revenues and product development may be limited. Collaborations and license arrangements generally pose the following risks: • collaborations and licensee arrangements may be terminated, in which case we will experience increased operating expenses and capital requirements if we elect to pursue further development of the product candidate; • collaborators and licensees may delay clinical trials and prolong clinical development, under fund a clinical trial program, stop a clinical trial or abandon a product candidate; • expected revenue might not be generated because milestones may not be achieved and product candidates may not be developed; • collaborators and licensees could independently develop, or develop with third parties, products that could compete with our future products; • the terms of our contracts with current or future collaborators and licensees may not be favorable to us in the future; • a collaborator or licensee with marketing and distribution rights to one or more of our products may not commit enough resources to the marketing and distribution of our products, limiting our potential revenues from the commercialization of a product; and • disputes may arise delaying or terminating the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates, or result in significant and costly litigation or arbitration. We may not be able to license technology necessary to develop products. We may be required to enter into licenses or other collaborations with third parties in order to access technology that is necessary to successfully develop certain of our products. We may not successfully negotiate acceptable licenses or other collaborative arrangements that will allow us to access such technologies. If we cannot obtain and maintain license rights on acceptable terms to access necessary technologies, we may be prevented from developing some product candidates. In addition, any technologies accessed through such licenses or other collaborations may not help us achieve our product development goals. Our supplies of certain materials necessary to our business may be limited and key raw materials of desired quantity and quality may be difficult to obtain. We have entered into several arrangements for the supply of various materials, chemical compounds, antibodies and antigens that are necessary to manufacture our product candidates. Currently we have contracts with third-party suppliers for the manufacture of the active ingredient (MTP-PE), excipients and final product for Junovan. We also have an agreement with another supplier for performing the key tests necessary for the release of Junovan. We have not identified other vendors that might provide these products and services should the ability of our current contractors to manufacture and test MTP-PE and/or Junovan be impaired. Delays or impairment of our ability to continue manufacturing or testing could be caused by physical damage or impairment of our supplier facilities, departure of key staff, failure to renew manufacturing agreements with them or other unforeseen circumstances. Such impairment could significantly impact our ability to commercialize Junovan should we receive regulatory approval to do so. Even if we were able to identify potential alternative suppliers, it would take a significant amount of time and resources to initiate and validate all of the required processes and activities to bring the new supplier on-line, resulting in interruptions in the availability of Junovan. We also rely on external suppliers for the production of melanoma cell-line lysates which are used in the manufacturing of Uvidem. We believe that we currently possess enough lysates for our short-term needs. However, in order to initiate further clinical trials of Uvidem, we will require a supply of lysates that conforms to GMP. We have an agreement with a third party supplier aimed at manufacturing GMP compliant lysates. Should the ability of 29 Table of Contents this contractor to manufacture lysates be impaired, we would experience significant delays in the Uvidem development program. Even if we were able to identify potential alternative suppliers, it would take a significant amount of time and resources to initiate and validate all of the required processes and activities to bring the new supplier on-line, resulting in interruptions in the availability of lysates. We also rely on external suppliers for the production of IL-13, which is used in the manufacturing of our Dendritophage product candidates. We believe that we currently possess enough IL-13 for our short- to medium-term needs. However, once our Dendritophage product candidates enter into Phase III clinical trials, we will require a supply of IL-13 that conforms to GMP. In 2003, we entered into an IL-13 Development and Manufacturing Agreement with Biotecnol aimed at developing a GMP compliant IL-13 manufacturing process. Under the agreement, Biotecnol has agreed to complete development of GMP IL-13 according to a program of GMP manufacturing, control, testing and release, as defined with advice from sanofi-aventis, and we have agreed to provide financial support payable upon the occurrence of certain milestone events and based on the decisions of the parties to continue development. Once development of the IL-13 production process is completed, Biotecnol will oversee the ongoing management of the outsourcing of manufacturing and release of the finished product for a renewable five-year period beginning with the release of the first finished product batch. Either party may terminate the IL-13 Development and Manufacturing Agreement on the basis of a recommendation from a joint management committee if certain program specifications and targets are not met and/or before manufacturing of the first product batch is initiated. We are also entitled to terminate the IL-13 Development and Manufacturing Agreement at any time during the manufacturing period if the finished product stability does not reach two years. Biotecnol is entitled to terminate the process performance at any time by providing 18 months’ prior notice. In addition, either Biotecnol or we may terminate the agreement with immediate effect upon written notice on or at any time after the occurrence of certain events, such as breach of contract or liquidation. There are no assurances that Biotecnol will successfully manufacture GMP IL-13, or that it will be able to produce sufficient quantities of GMP IL-13 if it is successful. Without a sufficient supply of GMP IL-13, we would not be able to conduct Phase III clinical trials of our Dendritophage product candidates. We have one sole source supplier for a component of our EP-2101 non-small cell lung cancer vaccine. This material is not supplied under a long-term contract but we have not had difficulties obtaining the material in a timely manner in the past. The supplier also provides the same material to other customers and we do not believe we are at risk of losing this supplier. We have several other suppliers that are currently our sole sources for the materials they supply, though we believe alternate suppliers could be developed in a reasonable period of time. Supply of any of these products could be limited, interrupted or restricted in certain geographic regions. In such a case, we may not be able to obtain from other manufacturers alternative materials, chemical compounds, components, antibodies or antigens of acceptable quality, in commercial quantities and at an acceptable cost. If our key suppliers or manufacturers fail to perform, or if the supply of products or materials is limited or interrupted, we may not be able to produce or market our products on a timely and competitive basis. If we and/or our collaborators cannot cost-effectively manufacture our immunotherapeutic product candidates in commercial quantities or for clinical trials in compliance with regulatory requirements, we and/or our collaborators may not be able to successfully commercialize the products. We have not commercialized any products, and we do not have the experience, resources or facilities to manufacture therapeutic vaccines and other products on a commercial scale. We will not be able to commercialize any products and earn product revenues unless our collaborators or we demonstrate the ability to manufacture commercial quantities in accordance with regulatory requirements. Among the other requirements for regulatory approval is the requirement that prospective manufacturers conform to the GMP requirements of the respective regulatory agencies. In complying with GMP requirements, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in production, record keeping and quality control to assure that the product meets applicable specifications and other requirements. We are currently dependent on third parties for the production and testing of our lead product candidate, Junovan and Junovan components. We may not be able to enter into future subcontracting agreements for the commercial supply of Junovan or certain of our other products, or to do so on terms that are acceptable to us. If we 30 Table of Contents are unable to enter into acceptable subcontracting agreements, we will not be able to successfully commercialize Junovan or any of our other products. In addition, reliance on third-party manufacturers poses additional risks which we would not face if we produced our products ourselves, including: • non-compliance by these third parties with regulatory and quality control standards; • breach by these third parties of their agreements with us; and • Termination or non-renewal of these agreements for reasons beyond our control. If products manufactured by third-party suppliers fail to comply with regulatory standards, sanctions could be imposed on us. These sanctions could include fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of our products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. If we change manufacturers for Junovan, we will be required to undergo revalidation of the manufacturing process and procedures in accordance with GMP. This revalidation could be costly and time-consuming and require the attention of our key personnel. If revalidation is not successful, we may be forced to look for an alternative supplier, which could delay the marketing of Junovan or increase our manufacturing costs. We will also need to demonstrate through preclinical studies that Junovan as produced by the new manufacturers is comparable to the materials used in the Phase III clinical trial. New clinical studies may also be required if comparability cannot be fully demonstrated by preclinical studies. We prepare our Cell Drugs, including Bexidem and our Dendritophages, in our own facilities for purposes of our research and development programs, preclinical testing and clinical trials. We currently have one clinical scale facility for Cell Drug manufacturing in Paris, France and a second one in Irvine, California that produce investigational drugs for a limited number of patients in our clinical trials. We expect to construct commercial scale manufacturing plants in Europe and the United States in the future, but we may not be able to successfully carry out such construction. As a result, we may not be able to manufacture our Cell Drugs on acceptable economic terms or on a sufficient scale for our needs. We cannot be sure that we can manufacture, either on our own or through contracts with outside parties, our immunotherapeutic product candidates at a cost or in quantities that are commercially viable. We are subject to extensive and uncertain government regulation and we may not be able to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. To date, none of our potential products have been approved for marketing by any regulatory agencies. We cannot be sure that we will receive the regulatory approvals necessary to commercialize any of our potential products. Our product candidates will be subject to extensive governmental regulation, and the applicable regulatory requirements are uncertain and subject to change. The FDA and the EMEA maintain rigorous requirements for, among other things, the research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record keeping, labeling, marketing, sale and distribution of therapeutic products. Failure to meet ongoing regulatory requirements or obtain and maintain regulatory approval of our products could harm our business. In particular, the United States is the world’s largest pharmaceutical market. Without FDA approval, we would be unable to access the U.S. market. In addition, noncompliance with initial or continuing requirements can result in, among other things: • fines and penalties; • injunctions; • seizure of products; • total or partial suspension of product marketing; • failure of a regulatory agency to grant marketing authorization; • withdrawal of marketing approvals; and • criminal prosecution. 31 Table of Contents The regulatory process for new drug products, including the required preclinical studies and clinical testing, is lengthy, uncertain and expensive. We will be required to submit extensive product characterization, manufacturing and control, and preclinical and clinical data and supportive information for each indication in order to establish the potential product’s safety and effectiveness. The approval process may result in long-term commitments for post-marketing studies. To market any drug products outside of the United States and the European Union, we and our collaborators will also be subject to numerous and varying foreign regulatory requirements, implemented by foreign health authorities, governing the design and conduct of human clinical trials and marketing approval for biologics or other drug products. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA or EMEA approval. The foreign regulatory approval processes usually include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA or EMEA approval, and approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by the health authorities of any other country, nor does the approval by the EMEA or the foreign health authorities ensure approval by the FDA. Even if we obtain commercial regulatory approvals, the approvals may significantly limit the indicated uses for which we may market our products. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our products, we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products if we or others identify side effects after our products are on the market, which could harm sales of the affected products. If others or we identify adverse side effects after any of our products are on the market, or if manufacturing problems occur: • regulatory approval may be withdrawn; • reformulation of our products, additional clinical trials, changes in labeling of our products or changes to or re-certifications of our manufacturing facilities may be required; • sales of the affected products may drop significantly; • our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and • lawsuits, including costly and lengthy class action suits, may be brought against us. Any of the above occurrences could halt or reduce sales of the affected products or could increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing these products, which would materially and adversely affect our business, operations, financial results and prospects. We may not be able to commercialize products under development by us if those products infringe claims in existing patents or patents that have not yet issued, and this would materially harm our ability to operate. As is typical in the biotechnology industry, our commercial success will depend in part on our ability to avoid infringing patents issued to others and/or to avoid breaching the technology licenses upon which we might base our products. There may be patents issued to others that contain claims that may cover certain aspects of our technologies or those of our collaborators, including cancer vaccine epitopes and peptide vaccines. If we are required to obtain a license under one or more of these patents to practice certain aspects of our immunotherapy technologies in Europe and in the United States, such a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain a license on acceptable terms to any technology that we need in order to develop or commercialize our products, or to develop an alternative product or technology that does not infringe on the patent rights of others, we would be prevented from commercializing our products and our business and prospects would be harmed. Our failure to obtain issued patents and, consequently, to protect our proprietary technology, could hurt our competitive position. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and enforce claims in our patents directed to our products, technologies and processes, both in the United States and in other countries. Although we have issued patents and 32 Table of Contents have filed various patent applications, our patent position is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Legal standards relating to patentability, validity and scope of patent claims in epitope identification, immunotherapy and other aspects of our technology field are still evolving. Patents issued, or which may be issued, to us may not be sufficiently broad to protect our immunotherapy technologies and processes, and patents may not issue from any of our patent applications. For example, even though our patent portfolio includes patent applications with claims directed to peptide epitopes and methods of utilizing sequence motifs to identify peptide epitopes and also includes patent applications with claims directed to vaccines derived from blood monocytes, we cannot assure you of the breadth of claims that will be allowed or that may issue in future patents. Other risks and uncertainties that we will face with respect to our patents and patent applications include the following: • the pending patent applications we have filed or to which we have exclusive rights may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents; • the allowed claims of any patents that issue may not provide meaningful protection; • we may be unable to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; • the patents licensed or issued to us may not provide a competitive advantage; • other companies may challenge patents licensed or issued to us; • disputes may arise regarding inventions and corresponding ownership rights in inventions and know-how resulting from the joint creation or use of our intellectual property and our respective licensors or collaborators; and • other companies may design around the technologies patented by us. If we are unable to compete effectively in the highly competitive biotechnology industry, our business will fail. The market for cancer therapeutics is characterized by rapidly evolving technology, an emphasis on proprietary products and intense competition. Many entities, including pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions and other research organizations, are actively engaged in the discovery, research and development of immunotherapy and other products for the treatment of cancer. Should any of our product candidates be approved for marketing and launched, they would compete against a range of established therapies. Our vaccines under development address a range of cancer markets. The competition in these markets is formidable. Our potential products would also compete with a range of novel therapies either under development or recently introduced onto the market, including monoclonal antibodies, cancer vaccines and cell therapy, gene therapy, angiogenesis inhibitors and signal transduction inhibitors. The strongest competition is likely to come from other immunotherapies (such as monoclonal antibodies) and, to a lesser extent, from chemotherapeutic agents and hormonal therapy. An important factor in competition may be the timing of market introduction of our vaccines and competitive products. Accordingly, the relative speed with which we can develop vaccines, complete the clinical trials and approval processes and supply commercial quantities of the vaccines to the market is expected to be an important competitive factor. We expect that competition among products approved for sale will be based, among other things, on product effectiveness, safety, reliability, availability, price and patent position. We cannot predict whether our products will compare favorably with competitive products in any one or more of these categories. Many of the companies developing competing technologies and products have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical and clinical development, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing than we have, and we may not be able to compete effectively against them. Large pharmaceutical companies in particular, such as Bristol-Myers Squibb, Roche, Novartis and AstraZeneca, have substantially more extensive experience in clinical testing and in obtaining regulatory approvals than us. Smaller or early-stage companies, most importantly those in the immunotherapy field such as Dendreon, may also prove to be significant competitors. These companies may become even stronger competitors through 33 Table of Contents collaborative arrangements with large companies. All of these companies may compete with us to acquire rights to promising antibodies, antigens and other complementary technologies. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights owned or used by us may be costly and time-consuming. Litigation may be necessary to enforce the claims in any patents issued to us or to defend against any claims of infringement of patents owned by third parties that are asserted against us. In addition, we may have to participate in one or more interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office or other foreign patent governing authorities, which could result in substantial costs to determine the priority of inventions. If we become involved in litigation or interference proceedings, we may incur substantial expense, and the proceedings may divert the attention of our technical and management personnel, even if we ultimately prevail. An adverse determination in proceedings of this type could subject us to significant liabilities, allow our competitors to market competitive products without obtaining a license from us, prohibit us from marketing our products or require us to seek licenses from third parties that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we cannot obtain such licenses, we may be restricted or prevented from developing and commercializing our product candidates. The enforcement, defense and prosecution of intellectual property rights, including the United States Patent and Trademark Office’s and related foreign patent offices’ interference proceedings, and related legal and administrative proceedings in the United States and elsewhere involve complex legal and factual questions. As a result, these proceedings are costly and time-consuming, and their outcome is uncertain. Litigation may be necessary to: • assert against others or defend ourselves against claims of infringement; • enforce patents owned by, or licensed to us from another party; • protect our trade secrets or know-how; or • determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others. If we are unable to protect our trade secrets, we may be unable to protect from competitors our interests in proprietary know-how that is not patentable or for which we have elected not to seek patent protection. Our competitive position will depend in part on our ability to protect trade secrets that are not patentable or for which we have elected not to seek patent protection. To protect our trade secrets, we rely primarily on confidentiality agreements with our collaborative partners, employees and consultants. Nevertheless, our collaborative partners, employees and consultants may breach these agreements and we may be unable to enforce these agreements. In addition, other companies may develop similar or alternative technologies, methods or products or duplicate our technologies, methods, vaccines or immunotherapy products that are not protected by our patents or otherwise obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary, and we may not have adequate remedies in such event. Any material leak of our confidential information into the public domain or to third parties could harm our competitive position. The U.S. government will fund some of our programs and, therefore, the U.S. government may have rights to certain of our technology and could require us to grant licenses of our inventions to third parties. We expect to fund certain of our research and development related to our cancer programs pursuant to grants and contracts from the U.S. government. As a result of these grants and contracts, the U.S. government has certain rights in the inventions, including a non-inclusive, non-transferable, irrevocable license to practice the invention throughout the world. Our failure to disclose, file, prosecute patent applications or elect to retain title to such inventions may result in conveyance of title to the United States. In addition, the U.S. government may require us to grant to a third party an exclusive license to any inventions resulting from the grant if the U.S. government determines that we have not taken adequate steps to commercialize inventions, or for public health or safety needs. 34 Table of Contents Successful commercialization of our future products will depend on our ability to gain acceptance by the medical community. If we succeed in receiving regulatory approval and launching our product candidates based on our immunotherapeutic technology, it will take time to gain acceptance in the medical community, including health care providers, patients and third-party payers. The degree of market acceptance will depend on several factors, including: • the extent to which our therapeutic product candidates are demonstrated to be safe and effective in clinical trials; • convenience and ease of administration; • the success of sales, marketing and public relations efforts; • the availability of alternative treatments; • competitive pricing; • the reimbursement policies of governments and other third parties; and • garnering support from well respected external advocates. If our products are not accepted by the market or only receive limited market acceptance, our business and prospects will be adversely affected. We may experience difficulties managing our growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations. It is expected that we will grow in certain areas of our operations as we develop and, assuming receipt of the necessary regulatory approvals, market our products. In particular, we will need to expand our sales and marketing capabilities to support our plans to market Junovan. We will therefore need to recruit personnel, particularly sales and marketing personnel, and expand our capabilities, which may strain our managerial, operational, financial and other resources. To compete effectively and manage our growth, we must: • train, manage, motivate and retain a growing employee base, particularly given our operations in both California and France; • accurately forecast demand for, and revenues from, our product candidates, particularly Junovan; and • expand existing operational, financial and management information systems to support our development and planned commercialization activities and the multiple locations of our offices. Our failure to manage these challenges effectively could harm our business. Our use of hazardous materials could expose us to significant costs. Our research and development processes involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials, chemicals and radioactive compounds. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and some waste products. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any liability could exceed our resources. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations in the future may entail significant costs and our ability to conduct research and development activities may be harmed by current or future environmental laws or regulations. We carry certain liability insurance for contamination or injury resulting from the use of hazardous materials. Examples of hazardous materials we use in our business include flammable liquids and solids, chromium-51, a radioactive material, carcinogens and reproductive toxins such as chloroform and formaldehyde and biological products and waste such as blood products from clinical samples. Personal injury resulting from the use of hazardous materials is covered up to the limit of our workers’ compensation insurance. Contamination clean-up resulting from an accident involving hazardous materials would be covered to the limit of our property insurance, 35 Table of Contents with certain exclusions. Our liability for personal injury or hazardous waste clean up and remediation may not be covered by these insurance policies or the costs may exceed policy limits. Our financial results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We will be exposed to currency exchange risk with respect to the U.S. dollar in relation to the euro, because a significant portion of our operating expenses will be incurred in euros. This exposure may increase if we expand our operations in Europe. We have not entered into any hedging arrangements to protect our business against currency fluctuations. We will monitor changes in our exposure to exchange rate risk that result from changes in our situation. If we do not enter into effective hedging arrangements in the future, our results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Risks Related to our Common Stock The volatility of the price of our common stock may adversely affect stockholders. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies, including our common stock, have historically been highly volatile, and the market from time to time has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not necessarily related to the operating performance of such companies. From August 16, 2005, when we began trading on the NASDAQ Global Market under our new trading symbol “IDMI” through December 31, 2006, the closing stock price of our common stock ranged from $2.25 to $6.99 and has been and will continue to be influenced by general market and industry conditions. In addition, the following factors may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock: • the development and regulatory status of our product candidates, particularly Junovan; • whether we are able to secure additional financing on favorable terms, or at all; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial immunotherapeutic products by us or others; • governmental regulation that affects the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries in general or us in particular; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights by us; • receipt of funding by us under collaboration and license agreements and government grants; • developments in, or termination of, our relationships with our collaborators and licensees; • public concern as to the clinical results and/or the safety of drugs developed by us or others; and • announcements related to the sale of our common stock or other securities. Changes in our financial performance from period to period also may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Our principal stockholders, executive officers and directors own a significant percentage of shares of our common stock and, as a result, the trading price for shares of our common stock may be depressed. These stockholders may make decisions that may be adverse to your interests. Our executive officers and directors (excluding, with respect to Mr. Deleage, the shares owned by Alta BioPharma Partners, L.P., IDM Chase Partners (Alta Bio), LLC and Alta Embarcadero BioPharma Partners, LLC), in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 3.1% of the shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2006. Moreover, Medarex and sanofi-aventis own approximately 19.6% and approximately 14.8%, respectively, of the total shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2006. As a result, sanofi-aventis, Medarex and our other principal stockholders, executive officers and directors, should they decide to act together, have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors, distribution of dividends, changes to our bylaws and other important decisions, such as future 36 Table of Contents equity issuances. To our knowledge, sanofi-aventis and Medarex have not entered into any voting agreements or formed a group as defined under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, referred to as the Exchange Act. This significant concentration of share ownership in a limited number of investors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive such a concentration as a disadvantage. It could also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other transactions that could be otherwise favorable to you. Future sales of shares of our common stock may cause the market price of your shares to decline. The sale of a large number of shares of our common stock, including through the exercise of outstanding warrants and stock options or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 