Item 1A. Risk Factors We wish to caution readers that the following important factors, among others, in some cases have affected our results and in the future could cause our actual results and needs to vary materially from forward-looking statements made from time to time by us on the basis of management’s then-current expectations. The business in which we are engaged is in a rapidly changing and competitive market and involves a high degree of risk, and accuracy with respect to forward-looking projections is difficult. Our substantial additional capital requirements will require that we obtain additional funding if we do not complete a strategic transaction; if we are not able to obtain additional funding when needed, we may be required to sell our assets or our company, or dissolve and liquidate all of our assets. We will continue to spend substantial amounts on research and development, including regulatory activities associated with gaining marketing authorization for mifamurtide in the U.S. and pre-commercial activities for mifamurtide, including amounts spent for manufacturing clinical and commercial supplies. While we have taken appropriate steps designed to contain such expenses, we cannot be certain that we will reduce our expenses sufficiently in light of our available funds. We will need to raise additional funding to continue to operate our business if we do not complete a strategic transaction. We do not have committed external sources of funding and may not be able to obtain any additional funding as a result of the volatile market conditions, particularly for biotechnology companies. In order to focus on those areas we believe can provide the most near term value to our stockholders and to ensure we have adequate cash to complete our review of strategic options for the Company, we are concentrating our near-term efforts on certain MEPACT pre-launch commercial activities in Europe and review of such strategic options, including merger or acquisition opportunities, which may involve a change in control of our company. Cosequently, we have placed the U.S. mifamurtide NDA amendment submission on hold until we complete our strategic review, which will allow us to operate into the third quarter of 2009. Our future operational and capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • whether or not we are able to complete a strategic transaction on terms that are favorable to us, or at all; • whether we are able to secure additional financing on favorable terms, or at all; • the costs associated with, and the success of, obtaining pricing approval for mifamurtide in Europe, and for obtaining marketing and pricing approval for mifamurtide in the U.S., and the timing of any such approvals; • the success or failure of the product launch and commercialization of mifamurtide; • the costs associated with filing an NDA amendment for mifamurtide as a result of what the FDA may request from us in such filing; • the costs associated with planning for and conducting clinical trials for our product candidates, including IDM-2101, our lung cancer vaccine candidate; • progress with other preclinical testing and clinical trials in the future; • our ability to establish and maintain collaboration and license agreements and any government contracts and grants; • the actual revenue we receive under any license agreements; • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals for our products; • the costs involved in filing, prosecuting, enforcing and defending patent claims and any other proprietary rights; • competing technological and market developments; and • the magnitude of our immunotherapeutic product discovery and development programs. In the event that we do not complete a strategic transaction, we will likely seek additional funding, which may be accomplished through equity or debt financings and/or collaboration and license agreements and we are considering various business alternatives, including merger and acquisition transactions. Given the current volatility in the capital markets and the weakening economy, obtaining additional funding in the near future, whether through equity or debt financing and/or collaboration and license agreements, or otherwise completing a merger and acquisition transaction, may be difficult or impossible. We may not be able to obtain additional financing or accomplish any other business transaction we decide to pursue on terms that are favorable to us or at all. 24 Table of Contents For example, the terms of the February 2007 $12.9 million private placement of our common stock include various penalties equal to up to approximately $1.6 million on an annual basis that may become due if, among other things, the resale registration statement we have filed in connection with that private placement is not available for resale by the purchasers in the private placement and under certain other conditions set forth in the unit purchase agreement related to the private placement. In addition, we may not be able to enter into additional collaborations to reduce our funding requirements. If we acquire funds by issuing securities, dilution to existing stockholders will result. If we raise funds through additional collaborations and license agreements, we will likely have to relinquish some or all of the rights to our product candidates or technologies that we may have otherwise developed ourselves. Our failure to obtain additional funding may require us to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our current research and development projects, sell certain of our assets (including one or more of our drug programs or technologies), sell our company, or dissolve and liquidate all of our assets. For example, given constraints on our cash resources, we have put on hold further development of UVIDEM, BEXIDEM and COLLIDEM candidates as we devote existing capital to the development of our lead product candidate, mifamurtide. We may not be able to continue as a going concern or fund our existing capital needs. As more fully described in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph in their report on our 2008 financial statements related to the uncertainty of our ability to continue as a going concern. There is substantial doubt as to whether we will be able to continue as a going concern beyond the third quarter of 2009 without access to additional capital. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional funds during 2009 on satisfactory terms, or at all. If we are unable to complete a strategic transaction and if we cannot obtain sufficient additional financing in the short-term, we may be forced to restructure or significantly curtail our operations, file for bankruptcy or cease operations. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should we be forced to take any such actions. Based upon the foregoing, our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph in their report on our 2008 financial statements related to the uncertainty in our ability to continue as a going concern. We are evaluating and considering strategic transactions, but we may not be able to complete any transaction successfully. As previously announced, we are evaluating strategic alternatives available to us. The options we are considering include various strategic transactions, including merger or acquisition opportunities, which may involve a change in control of our company. We have engaged JMP Securities, an investment bank, to advise us in exploring alternatives available to us with respect to a possible merger or acquisition transaction. Our consideration and completion of any strategic transaction is subject to risks that could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results, including risks that we will forego business opportunities while any transaction is being considered or is pending; that our business, including our ability to retain key employees, may suffer due to uncertainty; risks inherent in negotiating and completing any transaction, including whether we would be able to secure sufficient shareholder support for any transaction and whether we could complete a transaction on favorable terms if at all; and challenges in integrating businesses and technologies in the event any transaction is completed. Our efforts to implement any strategic alternative are further complicated by the current volatility in the capital markets and the weakening economy. If we are not able to complete a strategic transaction within a reasonable period of time, we will need to obtain additional funding in order to be able to continue to operate our business. If we were to complete a strategic transaction for cash consideration and the transaction were considered a change in control under the terms of the warrants issued in our February and June 2007 financings, the amount to be paid to the warrant holders would be determined using specific valuation assumptions prescribed in the warrant agreements which differ from those used in measuring the fair value of the warrants prior to such event as reflected on our balance sheet. The cash payment could be significantly higher or lower, depending on the actual per share transaction price, prescribed volatility and after adjusting the expected term to the actual remaining life of the outstanding warrants as of the date of the change in control. 25 Table of Contents Even though we have received regulatory approval for mifamurtide in Europe, we currently do not have the infrastructure or resources for commercialization and we may not be able to secure adequate pricing and reimbursement in Europe for us or any strategic partner to achieve profitability. Mifamurtide is the only product candidate for which we have received marketing authorization. Any revenues generated will be limited by our ability to, in time, develop our own commercial organization or find a partner for the distribution of the product. In addition, the ability to obtain appropriate pricing and reimbursement for mifamurtide, and the rate of adoption of the product are risks associated with the commercialization of mifamurtide. We may also face competition from new treatments or new investigational approaches with existing therapies. We currently do not have operational sales and marketing infrastructure for mifamurtide and do not currently have plans or sufficient funds to secure this capability. We would need to complete a strategic collaboration or other transaction with a strategic partner that has EU, and potentially U.S., operational commercial abilities or otherwise arrange for the commercialization ourselves, which would require financing. If we are unable to commercialize mifamurtide ourselves or with or through a partner promptly, any delay would materially adversely affect our business and financial position due to reduced or delayed revenues from mifamurtide sales. In addition, the ability to obtain appropriate pricing and reimbursement for mifamurtide, and the rate of adoption of the product by the national healthcare systems are uncertainties that may influence the timing for commercial launch of mifamurtide. Mifamurtide is the first ultra-orphan oncology drug approved in Europe and as such, there are no similar approved products in the EU against which the pricing and reimbursement for mifamurtide can be referenced. In most European markets, demand levels for healthcare in general and for pharmaceuticals in particular are principally regulated by national governments. Therefore, pricing and reimbursement for mifamurtide will have to be negotiated on a Member State by Member State basis according to national rules, as there does not exist a centralized European process. We have started the pricing and reimbursement process in certain EU Member States. As each Member State has its own national rules governing pricing control and reimbursement policy for pharmaceuticals, there are likely to be uncertainties attaching to the review process, and the level reimbursement that national governments are prepared to accept. In the current economic environment, governments and private payers or insurers are increasingly looking to contain healthcare costs, including costs on drug therapies. If we are unable to obtain adequate pricing and reimbursement for mifamurtide in Europe, we or a potential strategic partner or collaborator may not be able to cover the costs necessary to manufacture, market and sell the product limiting or preventing our ability to achieve profitability. Mifamurtide has received orphan drug designation in the U.S. and in the EU, which would provide us with a seven-year period of market exclusivity in the U.S. commencing on the date of FDA approval, and a 10-year period of market exclusivity in EU commencing on the date of grant of the European centralized marketing authorization, or through March 2019 in the EU. This market exclusivity would apply only to the approved indication for the treatment of osteosarcoma. However, the granted market exclusivity does not stop a similar product being considered for regulatory approval if it is proven to be clinically more effective and/or safer than mifamurtide. In parallel, because mifamurtide is considered a new active substance, under European pharmaceutical law, a period of 10-year regulatory data protection/exclusivity is attached to the marketing authorization. During the regulatory data protection period, no generic applicants may cross-refer to the preclinical and clinical data contained in the file for mifamurtide to support approval a generic version of mifamurtide. The European patents for the liposomal formulation of mifamurtide expired in 2005 and certain other patents covering the active ingredient in mifamurtide expired at the end of 2003. As a result, if a competitor develops a new formulation for mifamurtide, we may face generic competition following the expiration of market exclusivity and regulatory data protection. If we are not able to commercialize mifamurtide successfully, we may not bring to market our other product candidates for several years, if ever, and our prospects will be harmed as a result. Our lead product candidate, mifamurtide, may never obtain regulatory approval in the U.S. Even though we have received marketing authorization for mifamurtide in Europe, we may never obtain regulatory approval in the U.S. We submitted an NDA to the FDA for mifamurtide, requesting approval for its use in the treatment of newly diagnosed resectable high grade osteosarcoma patients following surgical resection in combination with multiple agent chemotherapy. In August 2007, the FDA issued a not approvable letter to us after 26 Table of Contents completing the review of the NDA for mifamurtide. In this letter, the FDA requested data from additional clinical trials to demonstrate the benefit of mifamurtide, as well as information or clarification with respect to other sections of the NDA. In order to focus existing resources on certain MEPACT pre-launch commercial activities in Europe and to conserve cash while we complete our review of strategic options for the Company, we have placed the U.S. mifamurtide NDA amendment submission on hold until we complete our review. If a single randomized trial is intended to support a marketing application, the trial should be well designed, well conducted, internally consistent and provide statistically persuasive efficacy findings, and a second trial would be ethically or practically impossible to perform. The mifamurtide marketing applications include efficacy and safety data from one Phase 3 clinical trial conducted by the COG sponsored by the NCI completed prior to our purchase of mifamurtide from Jenner in 2003 and data from preclinical, Phase 1 and Phase 2 studies. The FDA may not consider preclinical and clinical development work conducted by Ciba-Geigy, or safety and efficacy data and analyses from several Phase 1/2 and Phase 3 clinical trials, or the Phase 3 study design, conduct and analysis to be adequate or valid for their assessment of mifamurtide. These factors may cause significant delays in review, may result in the FDA requiring us to conduct additional pre-clinical or clinical trials, or may result in a determination by the FDA that the quality, safety and/or efficacy data do not support marketing approval. We may not be able to collect, analyze and submit additional data in an amendment to the NDA for mifamurtide, if at all. Further, it is possible that the additional data will not support the benefit of mifamurtide in the treatment of non-metastatic osteosarcoma, will not allow a more robust analysis of mifamurtide, will not continue to support the overall survival benefit of mifamurtide in osteosarcoma, and may not provide substantial evidence for the potential regulatory approval of mifamurtide. Other risks relating to regulatory approval of mifamurtide include our ability and time needed to respond to questions raised during review with regard to regulatory submissions for mifamurtide. In addition, FDA staffing issues could delay critical FDA meetings that are needed to file our amended NDA. We may not be able to address outstanding issues of the FDA. For instance, the FDA’s not approvable letter related to the NDA for mifamurtide requested data from additional clinical trials to demonstrate the benefit of mifamurtide, and we do not have sufficient financial, operational and other resources necessary to complete additional clinical trials. If we are not able to address these issues to the satisfaction of the FDA, we may not receive necessary approvals for the marketing and commercialization of mifamurtide in the U.S. when expected or at all. Manufacturing of mifamurtide and mifamurtide components for IDM Pharma by third party suppliers is based in part on the specifications and processes established before the Phase 3 trial. We have produced mifamurtide materials that meet the same specifications as the product used in pivotal clinical trials. We submitted data showing comparability of the new (IDM Pharma) and the old (Ciba-Geigy) materials in the NDA and MAA so that the data generated during preclinical and clinical development can be used to support regulatory marketing approval. If the FDA does not accept our assessment of the comparability results, the approval in the U.S. would be delayed. Manufacturing of mifamurtide and mifamurtide components for IDM Pharma is also a complex process involving a number of suppliers and steps, and is carried out in numerous locations and countries. Managing this manufacturing process is intricate and also involves issues created by time zone and language differences as well as knowledge of local and territorial regulations. We rely on our employees, local manufacturer representatives and consultants with knowledge of the local and territorial regulations to manufacture mifamurtide and its components to meet all of the required manufacturing and regulatory specifications. If we are unable to manufacture mifamurtide and its components in accordance with application requirements, our ability to obtain regulatory approval for mifamurtide would be adversely affected. The development of mifamurtide suitable for commercial distribution, the review of our NDA by the FDA and stringent regulatory requirements to manufacture commercial products in various geographies have required and will continue to require significant investments of time and money, as well as the focus and attention of key personnel. If we fail to receive or are delayed in receiving regulatory approval for mifamurtide in the U.S., our financial condition and results of operations will be significantly and adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents Failure to satisfy the NASDAQ Global Market continued listing requirements may result in our common stock being delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “IDMI.” In the event that we fail to satisfy any of the listing requirements, our common stock may be put under review or removed from listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. We have continued to spend substantial amounts on research and development, including regulatory activities associated with gaining marketing authorization for mifamurtide in the EU and U.S. and pre-commercial activities for mifamurtide, including amounts spent for manufacturing clinical and commercial supplies. Because we do not have committed external sources of funding and may not be able to obtain any additional funding due to volatile market conditions, particularly for biotechnology companies, we are in danger of failing to satisfy the $50.0 million minimum market value of listed securities requirement for ten consecutive trading days (pursuant to Rule 4450(b) of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules) or the $10 million in stockholders’ equity requirement (pursuant to Rule 4450(a) of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules), one of which is required for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. If we are notified by the Listing Qualifications Staff of the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, or NASDAQ, that our common stock may be subject to delisting for failing to satisfy the $50.0 million minimum market value of listed securities requirement for ten consecutive trading days, we will be afforded a 90 calendar day period to regain compliance. In the event we are notified by NASDAQ that our common stock may be subject to delisting for failing to satisfy the $10 million in stockholders’ equity requirement, then NASDAQ will request that we submit a plan of compliance within 15 calendar days. If we do not regain compliance, and do not elect or are unable to transfer to the NASDAQ Capital Market, NASDAQ will provide written notification that our common stock will be delisted, after which we may choose to appeal the staff determination to the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel. Delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and the market price of our common stock could decrease. Such delisting could also adversely affect our ability to obtain future financing for the continuation of our operations. We are evaluating our research and development programs and considering strategic transactions, but we may not be able to complete any transaction successfully. As previously announced, we are evaluating our research and development programs, including related assets and costs, and strategic alternatives available to us. The options we are considering include various strategic transactions, including merger or acquisition opportunities, which may involve a change in control of our company. We have engaged JMP Securities, an investment bank, to advise us in exploring alternatives available to us with respect to a possible merger or acquisition transaction. Our consideration and completion of any strategic transaction is subject to risks that could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results, including risks that we will forego business opportunities while any transaction is being considered or is pending; that our business, including our ability to retain key employees, may suffer due to uncertainty; risks inherent in negotiating and completing any transaction, including whether we would be able to complete a transaction on favorable terms if at all; and challenges in integrating businesses and technologies in the event any transaction is completed. Our efforts to implement any strategic alternative are further complicated by the current volatility in the capital markets and the weakening economy. If we are not able to complete a strategic transaction within a reasonable period of time, we will need to obtain additional funding in order to be able to continue to operate our business. If we were to complete a strategic transaction for cash consideration and the transaction were considered a change in control under the terms of the warrants issued in our February and June 2007 financings, the amount to be paid to the warrant holders would be determined using specific valuation assumptions prescribed in the warrant agreements which differ from those used in measuring the fair value of the warrants prior to such event as reflected on our balance sheet. The cash payment could be significantly higher or lower, depending on the actual per share transaction price, prescribed volatility and after adjusting the expected term to the actual remaining life of the outstanding warrants as of the date of the change in control. 28 Table of Contents Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our products, we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products if we or others identify side effects after our products are on the market, which could harm sales of the affected products. If others or we identify adverse side effects after any of our products are on the market, or if manufacturing problems occur: • regulatory approval may be withdrawn; • reformulation of our products, additional clinical trials, changes in labeling of our products or changes to or re-certifications of our manufacturing facilities may be required; • sales of the affected products may drop significantly; • our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and • lawsuits, including costly and lengthy class action suits, may be brought against us. Any of the above occurrences could halt or reduce sales of the affected products or could increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing these products, which would materially and adversely affect our business, operations, financial results and prospects. The process of developing immunotherapeutic products requires significant research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials, all of which are extremely expensive and time-consuming and may not result in a commercial product. Our product candidates other than mifamurtide are at early stages of development, and we may fail to develop and successfully commercialize safe and effective treatments based on these products or other technology. For each product candidate, we must demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans through extensive clinical testing, which is very expensive, can take many years and has an uncertain outcome. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during or as a result of the testing process that could delay or prevent testing or commercialization of our products, including: • the results of preclinical studies may be inconclusive, or they may not be indicative of results that will be obtained in human clinical trials; • after reviewing test results, we may abandon projects that we might previously have believed to be promising; • after reviewing test results, our collaborators may abandon projects that we might believe are still promising and we would either have to bear the operating expenses and capital requirements of continued development of our therapeutic cancer vaccines or abandon the projects outright or put them on hold as we have done with our UVIDEM development program following sanofi-aventis’ termination of its participation in the program; • we, our collaborators or government regulators may suspend or terminate clinical trials if the participating subjects or patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; • clinical trials may be delayed as a result of difficulties in identifying and enrolling patients who meet trial eligibility criteria; • safety and efficacy results attained in early human clinical trials may not be indicative of results that are obtained in later clinical trials; and • our product candidates may not have the desired effects or may have undesirable side effects that preclude regulatory approval or limit their commercial use, if approved. The data collected from clinical trials may not be sufficient to support regulatory approval of any of our products, and the regulatory agencies may not ultimately approve any of our products for commercial sale, which will adversely affect our business and prospects. If we fail to commence or complete, or experience delays in, any of 29 Table of Contents our planned clinical trials, our operating income, stock price and ability to conduct business as currently planned could be materially and adversely affected. Our revenues and operating results are likely to fluctuate and be unpredictable. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past, and our revenues and operating results are likely to continue to do so in the future. This is due to the non-recurring nature of these revenues, which in the past have been derived principally from payments made under the collaboration agreement with sanofi-aventis and from government grants and contracts. As a result of sanofi-aventis’ decision to terminate its participation in the UVIDEM development program and our decision to close operations of our Paris, France subsidiary, where the majority of our government grants and contracts were awarded and performed, we expect revenues in the near term to be primarily derived from investment income and to be significantly less than in prior years. If we are able to commercialize mifamurtide, either with a partner, or alone if we are able to obtain financing, our revenues will be unpredictable after initial launch as they will be impacted by pricing and reimbursement for mifamurtide, and the rate of adoption of the product. Our costs associated with mifamurtide may also be unpredictable and fluctuate depending on volume, distribution, warehousing, transportation and manufacturing costs, and taxes and other costs in the various geographies in which we may sell. In connection with the private placement we completed on February 20, 2007 and the registered direct offering we completed on June 20, 2007, we issued warrants to purchase 782,568 and 2,594,844 shares of common stock (including those shares issued to the placement agent in the registered direct offering), respectively. Upon a Change in Control (as defined in the warrant agreements) in which we receive all cash consideration, we (or the successor entity) shall purchase any unexercised warrants from the holder thereof for cash in an amount equal to its value computed using the Black-Scholes-Merton pricing model with prescribed guidelines. Initially, the warrants are exercisable for five years from the respective dates of issuance and may be exercised in cash or on a cashless exercise basis. At each balance sheet date we will adjust the instruments to their estimated fair value using the Black-Scholes-Merton pricing model formula and utilizing several assumptions including: historical stock price volatility, risk-free interest rate, remaining maturity, and the closing price of our common stock, with the change in value recorded as a non-cash interest expense. Fluctuations in the market price of our common stock between measurement periods will have an impact on the revaluations, the results of which are highly unpredictable and may have a significant impact on our results of operations. Our history of operating losses and our expectation of continuing losses may hurt our ability to reach profitability or continue operations. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception. Our accumulated deficit was $216.7 million as of December 31, 2008. It is likely that we will continue to incur substantial net operating losses for the foreseeable future, which may adversely affect our ability to continue operations. We have not generated revenues from the commercialization of any product. All of our revenues to date have consisted of contract research and development revenues, license and milestone payments, research grants, certain asset divestitures and interest income. To achieve profitable operations, we, alone or with collaborators, must successfully identify, develop, register and market proprietary products. We currently do not have operational sales and marketing infrastructure for mifamurtide and do not currently have plans or sufficient funds to secure this capability. We also cannot be assured that we will secure adequate pricing, listing and reimbursement of MEPACT in Europe. We would need to complete a strategic collaboration or other transaction with a strategic partner that has EU, and potentially U.S., operational commercial abilities or otherwise arrange for the commercialization ourselves, which would require financing. We therefore do not expect to generate revenues from the commercialization of any product until the second half of 2009 at the earliest. We may not be able to generate sufficient product revenue to become profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability on a quarterly or yearly basis. 30 Table of Contents If we lose our key management personnel or are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, it could delay or hurt our research and product development efforts. We are dependent on the principal members of our management staff, including Mr. Timothy P. Walbert, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Robert J. De Vaere, Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer, Dr. Jeffrey W. Sherman, M.D., FACP, Senior Vice President, Research and Development and Chief Medical Officer and Mr. Timothy C. Melkus, Senior Vice President, Business Development and Operations. We have previously entered into employment contracts and retention agreements with the aforementioned management staff, which we believe provide them incentives to remain as employees with us, although there can be no assurance they will do so. We do not maintain key person life insurance on the life of any employee. Our ability to develop our products and achieve our other business objectives also depends in part on the continued service of our key management personnel and our ability to identify hire and retain additional qualified personnel. We do not have employment agreements with our non-management personnel. However, we have entered into retention bonus arrangements with certain of our employees, which we believe provide them incentives to remain as employees with us, although there can be no assurance they will do so. As previously disclosed, Mr. Walbert and Mr. De Vaere are also serving as President and Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, respectively, of Horizon Therapeutics, Inc., a private biopharmaceutical company focused on the development of prescription drugs for mild to moderate pain relief, while continuing to serve as our President, Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board and Senior Vice President Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer, respectively of the Company. There is risk that this dual-employment arrangement may not be sustainable for an extended period. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in chemistry, biochemistry, immunology and other areas of our proposed activities and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain such personnel necessary for the development of our business. Because of the intense competition for qualified personnel among technology-based businesses, particularly in the Southern California area, we may not be successful in adding technical personnel as needed to meet the staffing requirements of additional collaborative relationships. Our failure to attract and retain key personnel could delay or be significantly detrimental to our product development programs and could cause our stock price to decline. Unexpected or undesirable side effects or other characteristics of our products and technology may delay or otherwise hurt the development of our drug candidates, or may expose us to significant liability that could cause us to incur significant costs. Certain product candidates may produce serious side effects. If our product candidates prove to be ineffective, or if they result in unacceptable side effects, we will not be able to successfully commercialize them and our prospects will be significantly and adversely affected. In addition, there may be side effects in our current or future clinical trials that may be discovered only after long-term exposure, even though our safety tests may indicate favorable results. We may also encounter technological challenges relating to these technologies and applications in our research and development programs that we may not be able to resolve. Any such unexpected side effects or technological challenges may delay or otherwise adversely affect the development, regulatory approval or commercialization of our drug candidates. Our business will expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of human therapeutic products. While we currently have product liability insurance for our clinical trials, we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or obtain acceptable insurance as we progress through product development and commercialization, or that our insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities, either in human clinical trials or following commercialization of any products we may develop. Adverse publicity regarding the safety or side effects of the technology approach or products of others could negatively impact us and cause the price of our common stock to decline. Despite any favorable safety tests that may be completed with respect to our product candidates, adverse publicity regarding immunotherapeutic products or other products being developed or marketed by others could negatively affect us. If other researchers’ studies raise or substantiate concerns over the safety or side effects of our technology approach or product development efforts generally, our reputation and public support for our clinical 31 Table of Contents trials or products could be harmed, which would adversely impact our business and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We have a variety of treatment approaches and some may not prove effective. Our immunotherapeutic treatment approaches are largely untested. To date, only a limited number of immunotherapeutic antibody-based and vaccine-based products designed to fight cancer have been approved for commercialization, and for only a few specific types of cancer. The basis for most immunotherapeutic treatment approaches being developed for the treatment of cancer is the discovery that cancer cells express more of certain proteins, known as antigens, on their surfaces, which may allow them to be distinguished from normal cells. Immunotherapy is designed either to manipulate the body’s immune cells to target antigens and destroy the cancer cells that overexpress them or to activate the body’s immune system generally. However, immunotherapy has failed in the past for a number of reasons, including: • the targeted antigens are not sufficiently different from those normal cells to cause an immune reaction; • the tumor cells do not express the targeted antigen or other target structures at all or in sufficient quantities to be recognized by immune system cells, such as T cells or macrophages; • the immune response stimulated by the immunotherapeutic agent is not strong enough to destroy all of the cancer cells; or • cancer cells may, through various mechanisms, escape an immune response. If we cannot enter into and maintain strategic collaborations on acceptable terms in the future, we may not be able to develop products in markets where it would be too costly or complex to do so on our own. We will need to enter into and maintain collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies or other strategic partners both for development and for commercialization of potential products in markets where it would be too costly or complex to do so on our own, such as commercialization of mifamurtide in Europe. If we are not able to enter into new collaborations on acceptable terms, we may be forced to abandon or delay development and commercialization of some product candidates and our business will be harmed. If our collaboration or license arrangements are unsuccessful, our revenues and product development may be limited. Collaborations and license arrangements generally pose the following risks: • collaborations and licensee arrangements may be terminated, in which case we will experience increased operating expenses and capital requirements if we elect to pursue further development of the product candidate; • collaborators and licensees may delay clinical trials and prolong clinical development, under-fund a clinical trial program, stop a clinical trial or abandon a product candidate; • expected revenue might not be generated because milestones may not be achieved and product candidates may not be developed; • collaborators and licensees could independently develop, or develop with third parties, products that could compete with our future products; • the terms of our contracts with current or future collaborators and licensees may not be favorable to us in the future; • a collaborator or licensee with marketing and distribution rights to one or more of our products may not commit enough resources to the marketing and distribution of our products, limiting our potential revenues from the commercialization of a product; and • disputes may arise delaying or terminating the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates, or result in significant and costly litigation or arbitration. 32 Table of Contents We may not be able to license technology necessary to develop products. We may be required to enter into licenses or other collaborations with third parties in order to access technology that is necessary to successfully develop certain of our products. We may not successfully negotiate acceptable licenses or other collaborative arrangements that will allow us to access such technologies. If we cannot obtain and maintain license rights on acceptable terms to access necessary technologies, we may be prevented from developing some product candidates. In addition, any technologies accessed through such licenses or other collaborations may not help us achieve our product development goals. Our supplies of certain materials necessary to our business may be limited and key raw materials of desired quantity and quality may be difficult to obtain. We have entered into several arrangements for the supply of various materials, chemical compounds, antibodies and antigens that are necessary to manufacture our product candidates. Mifamurtide manufacture involves the acquisition of the API and excipients, which are then dissolved in a specialized solvent, mixed, filtered and finally lyophilized in vials. Currently we have contracts with third-party suppliers for the manufacture of the API and final product formulation, fill and finish for mifamurtide. We also have agreements with several other suppliers that perform the key analytical and quality control tests necessary for the release of mifamurtide. The excipients are purchased via purchase orders. While we have identified alternate suppliers that could provide these products and services, should the ability of our current contractors to manufacture and test MTP-PE and/or mifamurtide be impaired or otherwise limited, we do not have any agreements or current arrangements with these alternate suppliers. Delays or impairment of our ability to continue manufacturing mifamurtide could be caused by physical damage or impairment of our supplier facilities, failure to renew manufacturing agreements with them or other unforeseen circumstances. Such impairment could significantly impact our ability to commercialize mifamurtide in Europe should we find a partner or conclude a financing which would allow us to commercialize on our own. Despite our having already identified potential alternative suppliers, it would take a significant amount of time and resources to initiate and validate all of the required processes and activities to bring any new supplier on-line, resulting in interruptions in the availability of mifamurtide. We have one sole source supplier for a component of our IDM-2101 product candidate. This material is not supplied under a long-term contract but we have not had difficulties obtaining the material in a timely manner in the past. The supplier also provides the same or similar material to other customers and we do not believe we are at risk of losing this supplier. We have several other suppliers that are currently our sole sources for the materials they supply, though we believe alternate suppliers could be developed in a reasonable period of time. Supply of any of these products could be limited, interrupted or restricted in certain geographic regions. In such a case, we may not be able to obtain from other manufacturers alternative materials, chemical compounds, components, antibodies or antigens of acceptable quality, in commercial quantities and at an acceptable cost. If our key suppliers or manufacturers fail to perform, or if the supply of products or materials is limited or interrupted, we may not be able to produce or market our products on a timely and competitive basis. If we and/or our collaborators cannot cost-effectively manufacture our immunotherapeutic product candidates in commercial quantities or for clinical trials in compliance with regulatory requirements, we and/or our collaborators may not be able to successfully commercialize the products. We have not commercialized any products, and we do not have the experience, resources or facilities to manufacture therapeutic vaccines and other products on a commercial scale. We will not be able to commercialize any products and earn product revenues unless we and our collaborators demonstrate the ability to manufacture commercial quantities in accordance with regulatory requirements. Among the other requirements for regulatory approval is the requirement that we and our contract manufacturers conform to the GMP requirements of the respective regulatory agencies. In complying with GMP requirements, we and our manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in production, record keeping and quality control to assure that the product meets applicable specifications and other requirements. 33 Table of Contents We are currently dependent on third parties for the production and testing of our lead product candidate, mifamurtide and mifamurtide components. We may not be able to enter into future subcontracting agreements for the commercial supply of mifamurtide or certain of our other products or to do so on terms that are acceptable to us. If we are unable to enter into acceptable subcontracting agreements, we will not be able to successfully commercialize mifamurtide or any of our other products. In addition, reliance on third-party manufacturers poses additional risks which we would not face if we produced our products ourselves, including: • non-compliance by these third parties with regulatory and quality control standards; • breach by these third parties of their agreements with us; and • termination or non-renewal of these agreements for reasons beyond our control. If products manufactured by third-party suppliers fail to comply with regulatory standards, sanctions could be imposed on us. These sanctions could include fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of our products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. If we change manufacturers for mifamurtide, we will be required to undergo revalidation of the manufacturing process and procedures in accordance with GMP. This revalidation could be costly, incur significant delays and require the attention of our key personnel. We cannot be sure that we can manufacture, either on our own or through contracts with outside parties, our immunotherapeutic product candidates at a cost or in quantities that are commercially viable. We are subject to extensive and uncertain government regulation and we may not be able to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. To date, none of our potential products have been approved for marketing by any regulatory agencies. We cannot be sure that we will receive the regulatory approvals necessary to commercialize any of our potential products. Our product candidates will be subject to extensive governmental regulation, and the applicable regulatory requirements are uncertain and subject to change. The FDA and the EMEA maintain rigorous requirements for, among other things, the research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record keeping, labeling, marketing, sale and distribution of therapeutic products. Failure to meet ongoing regulatory requirements or obtain and maintain regulatory approval of our products could harm our business. In particular, the U.S. is the world’s largest pharmaceutical market. Without FDA approval, we would be unable to access the U.S. market. In addition, noncompliance with initial or continuing requirements can result in, among other things: • fines and penalties; • injunctions; • seizure of products; • total or partial suspension of product marketing; • failure of a regulatory agency to grant marketing authorization; • withdrawal of marketing approvals; and • criminal prosecution. The regulatory process for new drug products, including the required preclinical studies and clinical testing, is lengthy, uncertain and expensive. We will be required to submit extensive product characterization, manufacturing and control, and preclinical and clinical data and supportive information for each indication in order to establish the potential product’s safety and effectiveness. The approval process may result in long-term commitments for post-marketing studies. To market any drug products outside of the U.S. and the EU, we and our collaborators will also be subject to numerous and varying foreign regulatory requirements, implemented by foreign health authorities, governing the 34 Table of Contents design and conduct of human clinical trials and marketing approval for biologics or other drug products. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA or EMEA approval. The foreign regulatory approval processes usually include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA or EMEA approval, and approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by the health authorities of any other country, nor does the approval by the EMEA or the foreign health authorities ensure approval by the FDA. Even if we obtain commercial regulatory approvals, the approvals may significantly limit the indicated uses for which we may market our products. We may not be able to commercialize products under development by us if those products infringe claims in existing patents or patents that have not yet issued, and this would materially harm our ability to operate. As is typical in the biotechnology industry, our commercial success will depend in part on our ability to avoid infringing patents issued to others and/or to avoid breaching the technology licenses upon which we might base our products. There may be patents issued to others that contain claims that may cover certain aspects of our technologies or those of our collaborators, including cancer vaccine epitopes and peptide vaccines. If we are required to obtain a license under one or more of these patents to practice certain aspects of our immunotherapy technologies in Europe and in the U.S., such a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain a license on acceptable terms to any technology that we need in order to develop or commercialize our products, or to develop an alternative product or technology that does not infringe on the patent rights of others, we would be prevented from commercializing our products and our business and prospects would be harmed. Our failure to obtain issued patents and, consequently, to protect our proprietary technology, could hurt our competitive position. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and enforce claims in our patents directed to our products, technologies and processes, both in the U.S. and in other countries. Although we have issued patents and have filed various patent applications, our patent position is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Legal standards relating to patentability, validity and scope of patent claims in epitope identification, immunotherapy and other aspects of our technology field are still evolving. Patents issued, or which may be issued, to us may not be sufficiently broad to protect our immunotherapy technologies and processes, and patents may not issue from any of our patent applications. For example, even though our patent portfolio includes patent applications with claims directed to peptide epitopes and methods of utilizing sequence motifs to identify peptide epitopes and also includes patent applications with claims directed to vaccines derived from blood monocytes, we cannot assure you of the breadth of claims that will be allowed or that may issue in future patents. Other risks and uncertainties that we will face with respect to our patents and patent applications include the following: • the pending patent applications we have filed or to which we have exclusive rights may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents; • the allowed claims of any patents that issue may not provide meaningful protection; • we may be unable to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; • the patents licensed or issued to us may not provide a competitive advantage; • other companies may challenge patents licensed or issued to us; • disputes may arise regarding inventions and corresponding ownership rights in inventions and know-how resulting from the joint creation or use of our intellectual property and our respective licensors or collaborators; and • other companies may design around the technologies patented by us. If we are unable to compete effectively in the highly competitive biotechnology industry, our business will fail. The market for cancer therapeutics is characterized by rapidly evolving technology, an emphasis on proprietary products and intense competition. Many entities, including pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, 35 Table of Contents academic institutions and other research organizations, are actively engaged in the discovery, research and development of immunotherapy and other products for the treatment of cancer. Should any of our product candidates be approved for marketing and launched, they would compete against a range of established therapies. Our product candidates under development address a range of cancer markets. The competition in these markets is formidable. Our potential products would also compete with a range of novel therapies either under development or recently introduced onto the market, including monoclonal antibodies, cancer vaccines and cell therapy, gene therapy, angiogenesis inhibitors and signal transduction inhibitors. The strongest competition is likely to come from other immunotherapies (such as monoclonal antibodies) and, to a lesser extent, from chemotherapeutic agents and hormonal therapy. An important factor in competition may be the timing of market introduction of our product candidates and competitive products. Accordingly, the relative speed with which we can develop vaccines, complete the clinical trials and approval processes and supply commercial quantities of the vaccines to the market is expected to be an important competitive factor. We expect that competition among products approved for sale will be based, among other things, on product effectiveness, safety, reliability, availability, price and patent position. We cannot predict whether our products will compare favorably with competitive products in any one or more of these categories. Many of the companies developing competing technologies and products have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical and clinical development, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing than we have, and we may not be able to compete effectively against them. Large pharmaceutical companies in particular, such as sanofi-aventis, Glaxo SmithKline, Roche, Pfizer, Novartis and AstraZeneca have substantially more extensive experience in clinical testing and in obtaining regulatory approvals than us. Smaller or early-stage companies, most importantly those in the immunotherapy field, may also prove to be significant competitors. These companies may become even stronger competitors through collaborative arrangements with large companies. All of these companies may compete with us to acquire rights to promising antibodies, antigens and other complementary technologies. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights owned or used by us may be costly and time-consuming. Litigation may be necessary to enforce the claims in any patents issued to us or to defend against any claims of infringement of patents owned by third parties that are asserted against us. In addition, we may have to participate in one or more interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or other foreign patent governing authorities, which could result in substantial costs to determine the priority of inventions. If we become involved in litigation or interference proceedings, we may incur substantial expense, and the proceedings may divert the attention of our technical and management personnel, even if we ultimately prevail. An adverse determination in proceedings of this type could subject us to significant liabilities, allow our competitors to market competitive products without obtaining a license from us, prohibit us from marketing our products or require us to seek licenses from third parties that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we cannot obtain such licenses, we may be restricted or prevented from developing and commercializing our product candidates. The enforcement, defense and prosecution of intellectual property rights, including the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office’s and related foreign patent offices’ interference proceedings, and related legal and administrative proceedings in the United States and elsewhere involve complex legal and factual questions. As a result, these proceedings are costly and time-consuming, and their outcome is uncertain. Litigation may be necessary to: • assert against others or defend ourselves against claims of infringement; • enforce patents owned by, or licensed to us from another party; • protect our trade secrets or know-how; or • determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others. 36 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect our trade secrets, we may be unable to protect from competitors our interests in proprietary know-how that is not patentable or for which we have elected not to seek patent protection. Our competitive position will depend in part on our ability to protect trade secrets that are not patentable or for which we have elected not to seek patent protection. To protect our trade secrets, we rely primarily on confidentiality agreements with our collaborative partners, employees and consultants. Nevertheless, our collaborative partners, employees and consultants may breach these agreements and we may be unable to enforce these agreements. In addition, other companies may develop similar or alternative technologies, methods or products or duplicate our technologies, methods, vaccines or immunotherapy products that are not protected by our patents or otherwise obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary, and we may not have adequate remedies in such event. Any material leak of our confidential information into the public domain or to third parties could harm our competitive position. Successful commercialization of our future products will depend on our ability to gain acceptance by the medical community. If we succeed in receiving regulatory approval and launching our product candidates based on our immunotherapeutic technology, it will take time to gain acceptance in the medical community, including health care providers, patients and government or third-party payers. The degree of market acceptance will depend on several factors, including: • the extent to which our therapeutic product candidates are demonstrated to be safe and effective in clinical trials; • convenience and ease of administration; • the success of sales, marketing and public relations efforts; • the availability of alternative treatments; • competitive pricing; • the reimbursement policies of governments and other third parties; and • garnering support from well respected external advocates. If our products are not accepted by the market or only receive limited market acceptance, our business and prospects will be adversely affected. We may experience difficulties managing our growth if we determine to market and commercialize our products independently, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently do not have operational sales and marketing infrastructure for mifamurtide and do not currently have plans or sufficient funds to secure this capability. We also cannot be assured that we will secure adequate pricing, listing and reimbursement of MEPACT in Europe. We would need to complete a strategic collaboration or other transaction with a strategic partner that has EU, and potentially U.S., operational commercial abilities or otherwise arrange for the commercialization ourselves, which would require financing. If we were to market and commercialize mifamurtide on our own in the U.S., assuming receipt of the necessary regulatory approval, it is expected that we will grow in certain areas of our operations as we develop. In particular, we will need to expand our sales and marketing capabilities to market mifamurtide. We will therefore need to recruit personnel, particularly sales and marketing personnel, and expand our capabilities, which may strain our managerial, operational, financial and other resources. To compete effectively and manage our growth, we would have to: • train, manage, motivate and retain our employee base; • accurately forecast demand for, and revenues from, our product candidates, particularly mifamurtide; and • expand existing operational, financial and management information systems to support development and commercialization activities. Our failure to manage these challenges effectively could harm our business. 37 Table of Contents Our financial results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We will be exposed to currency exchange risk with respect to the U.S. dollar in relation to the euro, because a significant portion of our operating expenses will be incurred in euros. This exposure may increase if we expand our operations in Europe in connection with the marketing of any approved products. We have not entered into any hedging arrangements to protect our business against currency fluctuations. We will monitor changes in our exposure to exchange rate risk that result from changes in our situation. If we do not enter into effective hedging arrangements in the future, our results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The volatility of the price of our common stock may adversely affect stockholders. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies, including our common stock, have historically been highly volatile, and the market from time to time has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not necessarily related to the operating performance of such companies. From August 16, 2005, when we began trading on the NASDAQ Global Market under our new trading symbol “IDMI” through December 31, 2008, the closing stock price of our common stock ranged from $0.59 to $9.27 and has been and will continue to be influenced by general market and industry conditions. In addition, the following factors may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock: • The development and regulatory status of our product candidates, particularly mifamurtide; • whether we are able to secure additional financing on favorable terms, if at all; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial immunotherapeutic products by us or others; • governmental regulation that affects the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries in general or us in particular; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights by us; • receipt of funding by us under collaboration and license agreements and government grants; • developments in, or termination of, our relationships with our collaborators and licensees; • public concern as to the clinical results and/or the safety of drugs developed by us or others; and • announcements related to the sale of our common stock or other securities. Changes in our financial performance from period to period also may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Our principal stockholders, executive officers and directors own a significant percentage of shares of our common stock and, as a result, the trading price for shares of our common stock may be depressed. These stockholders may make decisions that may be adverse to your interests. Our executive officers and directors, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 0.3% of the shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2008. Moreover, Palo Alto Investors, LLC, Medarex and sanofi-aventis currently own approximately 39.4%, 10.4%, and 4.6%, respectively, of the total shares of our common stock outstanding as December 31, 2008. As a result, Palo Alto Investors LLC, Medarex and sanofi-aventis, and our other principal stockholders, executive officers and directors, should they decide to act individually or together, have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including any strategic transaction that may require stockholder approval, the election and removal of directors, distribution of dividends, changes to our bylaws and other important decisions, such as future equity issuances. To our knowledge, Palo Alto Investors LLC, Medarex and sanofi-aventis have not, nor have any of our other principal stockholders, entered into any voting agreements or formed a group as defined under the Exchange Act. This significant concentration of share ownership in a limited number of investors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive such a concentration as a disadvantage. It could 38 Table of Contents also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other transactions that could be otherwise favorable to our stockholders. Future sales of shares of our common stock may cause the market price of your shares to decline. The sale of a large number of shares of our common stock, including through the exercise of outstanding warrants and stock options or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 