Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below before deciding to invest in or maintain your investment in our company. The risks described below are not intended to be an all-inclusive list of all of the potential risks relating to an investment in our securities. If any of the following or other risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results and the trading price or value of our securities could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related To Our Business We are a development-stage company subject to all of the risks and uncertainties of a new business, including the risk that we may never market any products or generate revenues. We are a development-stage company that has only recently commenced any significant research and development activity. There is no assurance that we will be able to satisfactorily develop or market any of our current or proposed product candidates or that those product candidates will generate revenues or that any revenues generated will be sufficient for us to become profitable or thereafter maintain profitability. Only one of our product candidates has been clinically tested in an early stage trial. We have not generated any recurring revenues to date, and we do not expect to generate any such revenues for a number of years. Our cell-based vaccine technologies and our recently acquired monoclonal antibody based technology currently are our primary platform technologies, and our commercial prospects will be heavily dependent on the outcome of the contemplated clinical trials for our two current vaccine product candidates and our ability to successfully develop and then clinically test one or more monoclonal antibody product candidates. We have only three full-time employees, including our President and Chief Executive Officer and our Vice-President – Product Development and Manufacturing, have limited resources and may not possess the ability to successfully overcome many of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by early stage companies involved in the new and rapidly evolving field of biotechnology in general and cancer immunotherapies and monoclonal antibodies in particular. You must consider that we may not be able to: • obtain additional financial resources necessary to develop, test, manufacture and market our vaccine product candidates, our monoclonal antibody product candidates or any future product candidates; • engage corporate partners to assist in developing, testing, manufacturing and marketing our vaccine product candidates, our monoclonal antibody product candidates or any future product candidates; • satisfy the requirements of acceptable pre-clinical and clinical trial protocols, including timely patient enrollment; • establish and demonstrate or satisfactorily complete the research to demonstrate at various stages the pre-clinical and clinical efficacy and safety of our vaccine product candidates, our monoclonal antibody product candidates or any future product candidates; and • market our vaccine product candidates, our monoclonal antibody product candidates or any future product candidates to achieve acceptance and use by the medical community and patients in general and produce revenues. 15 Table of Contents We have a history of losses, expect future losses and cannot assure you that we will ever become or remain profitable. With the exception of a licensing fee payment that we received in 2009 in connection with our entering into a research and license option agreement with Roche Group, we have not generated any revenues and have incurred operating losses since our inception, and we expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. There is no assurance that we will be able to develop or market products in the future that will generate revenues or that any revenues generated will be sufficient for us to become profitable or thereafter maintain profitability. In the event that our operating losses are greater than anticipated or continue for longer than anticipated, we will need to raise significant additional capital sooner, or in greater amounts, than otherwise anticipated in order to be able to continue development of our present or future product candidates and maintain our operations. We will need to obtain significant additional capital, which additional funding may dilute our existing stockholders. We believe that our existing cash balances, together with potential proceeds from our preferred stock purchase arrangement with Socius Capital Group, will be sufficient to fund our currently planned level of operations for at least the next twelve months. We will need significant funding to initiate and conduct our currently planned clinical trials for ICT-107 and ICT-121, as well as to carry out all of our development work on our vaccine product candidates, our monoclonal antibody product candidates and future product candidates and to expand the scope of our operations (including seeking to employ additional support personnel on a full-time basis). If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital on a timely basis, the development of our current or any future product candidates is likely to be delayed, and we could be forced to reduce the scope of our research and development projects or otherwise limit or terminate our operations altogether. In December 2009, we entered into an agreement with Socius Capital under which Socius Capital has agreed to purchase from time to time an aggregate of up to $10 million of our preferred stock. However, Socius Capital’s obligation to purchase shares of our preferred stock is subject to our satisfying certain conditions at that time. There is no assurance that we will be able to satisfy those conditions if we wish to sell shares of our preferred stock to Socius Capital or that Socius Capital will have the ability to complete these purchases. In connection with each sale of preferred stock to Socius Capital, a pro rata portion of a warrant held by an affiliate of Socius Capital to purchase shares of our common stock will become exercisable. Should the Socius Capital affiliate sell substantial amounts of the underlying shares of our common stock, those sales could have a material adverse effect on the trading market for our common stock and make it impractical for us to make future sales of preferred stock to Socius Capital without substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. Except for our financing agreement with Socius Capital, we have not identified the sources for the additional financing that we will require, and we do not have commitments from any third parties to provide this financing. Certain investors may be unwilling to invest in our securities since we are traded on the OTC Bulletin Board and not on a national securities exchange, particularly if there is only limited trading in our common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board at the time we seek financing. The volume and frequency of such trading has been limited to date. There is no assurance that sufficient funding through a financing will be available to us at acceptable terms or at all. Any additional funding that we obtain in a financing is likely to reduce the percentage ownership of the company held by our existing securityholders. The amount of this dilution may be substantially increased if the trading price of our common stock has declined at the time of any financing from its current levels. We may seek SBIR or other government grants to conduct a portion of our planned research and development work in addition to certain equity financing. We have not yet submitted any requests for these grants, the competition for obtaining these grants is intense and there is no assurance that we will secure any grant funding on a timely basis or at all. 16 Table of Contents Our access to Dr. Yu’s research laboratory at Cedars-Sinai may be limited. We are heavily dependent upon Dr. John Yu, both for past research and as we develop our lead vaccine product candidates or any other or future vaccine product candidates. His laboratory at Cedars-Sinai has been financed in part by Cedars-Sinai (which is the licensor of our cellular-based therapy technology) and the National Institutes of Health (“NIH”). Cedars-Sinai or the NIH or other governmental agencies could promulgate new rules and regulations that might interfere with our product development or ownership rights if we wish to access on a contractual basis Dr. Yu’s laboratory at Cedars-Sinai in connection with our research and development activities. Our current product candidates and any future product candidates will be based on novel technologies and are inherently risky. We are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of products based on new technologies. The novel nature of the therapies creates significant challenges in regards to product development and optimization, manufacturing, government regulation, third-party reimbursement and market acceptance. For example, the FDA has limited experience with cancer stem cell or dendritic cell-based therapeutics and has not yet approved any of these therapeutics for marketing, and the pathway to regulatory approval for our vaccine product candidates or any future vaccine product candidates may accordingly be more uncertain, complex and lengthy than the pathway for new conventional drugs. The targeting of cancer stem cells as a potential therapy is a recent development that may not become broadly accepted by scientists or pharmaceutical companies. In addition, the manufacture of biological products, including cancer stem cell or dendritic cell-based vaccines, could be more complex and difficult, and therefore, these potential challenges may prevent us from developing and commercializing products on a timely or profitable basis or at all. We may elect to delay or discontinue preclinical studies or clinical trials based on unfavorable results. Any product candidate using a cellular therapeutic technology may fail to: • survive and persist in the desired location; • provide the intended therapeutic benefits; • properly integrate into existing tissue in the desired manner; or • achieve therapeutic benefits equal to or better than the standard of treatment at the time of testing. In addition, our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects. Results of preclinical research with our vaccine product candidates or any other or future product candidates or clinical results with formulations used in earlier trials that are similar but not identical to our product candidate formulations may not be indicative of the results that will be obtained in later stages of preclinical or clinical research on our product candidates. If regulatory authorities do not approve our products or if we fail to maintain regulatory compliance, we would be unable to commercialize our products, and our business and results of operations would be harmed. Furthermore, because cancer stem cell and dendritic cell based products represent new forms of therapy, the marketplace may not accept any products we may develop that utilize these technologies. If we do succeed in developing products, we will face many potential obstacles, such as the need to obtain regulatory approvals and to develop or obtain manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities. In addition, we will face substantial additional risks, such as product liability claims. 17 Table of Contents Because of the early stage of development of our vaccine product candidates, we do not know if we will be able to generate data that will support the filing of a biologics license or new drug application for these product candidates or the FDA’s approval thereof. If we experience substantial delays, we may not have the financial resources to continue development of these product candidates or the development of any of our any other or future product candidates. Delays in clinical trials could reduce the commercial viability of our vaccine product candidates and any other or future product candidates. We are required to pay substantial royalties under our license agreement with Cedars-Sinai, and we must meet certain milestones to maintain our license rights. Under our license agreement with Cedars-Sinai for our cellular-based therapy technology, we will be required to pay substantial royalties to that institution based on our revenues from sales of our products utilizing this technology, and these royalty payments could adversely affect the overall profitability for us of any products that we may seek to commercialize. In order to maintain our license rights under the Cedars-Sinai license agreement, we will need to meet certain specified milestones, subject to certain cure provisions, in the development of our vaccine product candidates and in the raising of funding. There is no assurance that we will be successful in meeting all of the milestones in the future on a timely basis or at all. Before we can market our vaccine product candidates or any other or future product candidates, we must obtain governmental approval for each of these product candidates, the application and receipt of which is time-consuming, costly and uncertain. Our current product candidates and any future product candidates that we will be developing will require approval of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) before they can be marketed in the U.S. Although our focus at this time is primarily on the U.S. market, in the future similar approvals will need to be obtained from foreign regulatory agencies before we can market our current and proposed product candidates in other countries. The process for filing and obtaining FDA approval to market therapeutic products is both time-consuming and costly, with no certainty of a successful outcome. The historical failure rate for companies seeking to obtain FDA approval of therapeutic products is high and no cancer stem cell or dendritic cell-based cancer vaccine has to date been approved by the FDA. This process includes conducting extensive pre-clinical research and clinical testing, which may take longer and cost more than we initially anticipate due to numerous factors, including without limitation, difficulty in securing appropriate centers to conduct trials, difficulty in enrolling patients in conformity with required protocols in a timely manner, unexpected adverse reactions by patients in the trials to our proposed product candidates and changes in the FDA’s requirements for our testing during the course of that testing. The FDA may require pre-clinical work for our monoclonal antibody product candidates beyond what we currently plan to conduct, which could necessitate significant expenditures on our part that we have not budgeted and which could significantly delay the commencement of clinical trials for these product candidates. The formulation of our cancer stem cell vaccine product candidate needs to be completed and certain animal testing must be completed with this formulation before we can test this product candidate in humans. Our cancer stem cell vaccine product candidate has not been previously tested in patients, and we may encounter unexpected and adverse immune responses or other side effects in the patients whom we test with this product candidate. The time required to obtain FDA and other approvals is unpredictable but often can exceed five years following the commencement of clinical trials, depending upon the complexity of the product and other factors. Any analysis we perform of data from preclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. We may also encounter unexpected delays or increased costs due to a variety of reasons, including new government regulations from future legislation or administrative action, or from changes in FDA policy during the period of product development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review. 18 Table of Contents Any delay or failure in our clinical trial program and in obtaining required approvals would have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues from the particular product. Furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a product may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market the product. These limitations may limit the size of the market for the product. Our lead vaccine product candidate and any other or future product candidates may not be eligible for Orphan Drug status. The United States and Europe may designate drugs for relatively small patient populations as orphan drugs. Orphan Drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process, but does make the product eligible for orphan drug exclusivity, reduced filing fees and specific tax credits. Generally, if a company receives the first marketing approval for a product with an Orphan Drug designation in the clinical indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug exclusivity. Orphan drug exclusivity means that the FDA will not approve another application to market the same drug for the same indication, except in limited circumstances, for a period of seven years in the United States. This exclusivity, however, could block the approval of our proposed product candidates if a competitor obtains marketing approval before us. We plan to seek orphan drug status for our dendritic cell vaccine to treat glioblastoma multiforme and may also seek this status for our cancer stem cell vaccine to treat glioblastoma multiforme and other diseases if we meet the eligibility criteria. However, even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for any of our proposed product candidates, we may not be able to maintain it. For example, if a competitive product is shown to be clinically superior to our product, any orphan drug exclusivity we have will not block the approval of such competitive product. Fast Track designation for development of our vaccine product candidates or any other potential product candidate may not lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process, and it does not increase the likelihood that our product candidates will receive marketing approval. If a drug is intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening condition and the drug demonstrates the potential to address unmet medical needs for this condition, the drug sponsor may apply for FDA Fast Track designation for a particular indication. Marketing applications filed by sponsors of products in Fast Track development may qualify for priority review under the policies and procedures offered by the FDA, but the Fast Track designation does not assure any such qualification or ultimate marketing approval by the FDA. Receipt of Fast Track designation may not result in a faster development process, review or approval compared to drugs considered for approval under conventional FDA procedures. In addition, the FDA may withdraw any Fast Track designation at any time. We may seek Fast Track designation for our vaccine product candidates or any other product candidates, but there is no assurance that the FDA will grant this status to any of our proposed product candidates. Because our current product candidates represent and our other future potential product candidates will represent novel approaches to the treatment of disease, there are many uncertainties regarding the development, the market acceptance, third-party reimbursement coverage and the commercial potential of our product candidates. There is no assurance that the approaches offered by our current product candidates or any future product candidates will gain broad acceptance among doctors or patients or that governmental agencies or third-party medical insurers will be willing to provide reimbursement coverage for proposed product candidates. Moreover, we do not have internal marketing data research resources and are not certain of and have not attempted to independently verify the potential size of the commercial markets for our current product candidates or any future product candidates. Since our current product candidates and any future product candidates will represent new approaches to treating various conditions, it may be difficult, in any event, to accurately estimate the potential revenues from these product candidates. We may spend large amounts of money trying to obtain approval for these product candidates, and never 19 Table of Contents succeed in doing so. In addition, these product candidates may not demonstrate in large sets of patients the pharmacological properties ascribed to them in the laboratory studies or smaller groups of patients, and they may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or even harmful ways either before or after they are approved to be marketed. We do not yet have sufficient information to reliably estimate what it will cost to commercially manufacture our current product candidates or any future product candidates, and the actual cost to manufacture these products could materially and adversely affect the commercial viability of these products. Certain of our cell-based vaccine product candidates may be formulated with cells harvested and processed from individual target patients, which could limit the target patient population for these vaccines and could require complex and costly manufacturing processes to produce these vaccines on a commercial basis. As a result, we may never succeed in developing a marketable product. If we do not successfully develop and commercialize products based upon our approach, we will not become profitable, which would materially and adversely affect the value of our common stock. Other factors that are presently unknown to us that we believe will materially affect market acceptance of our current product candidates or any future product candidates include: • the timing of our receipt of any marketing approvals, the terms of any approvals and the countries in which approvals are obtained; • the safety, efficacy and ease of administration; • the availability of government and third-party payor reimbursement; • the pricing of our product candidates, particularly as compared to alternative treatments; and • the availability of alternative effective forms of treatments, at that time, for the diseases that the product candidates we are developing are intended to treat. Adverse publicity regarding cellular therapies could impact our business. Although we are not utilizing embryonic stem cells, adverse publicity due to the ethical and social controversies surrounding the use of such cells or any adverse reported side effects from any stem cell, dendritic or other cell therapy clinical trials or to the failure of such trials to demonstrate that these therapies are efficacious could materially and adversely affect our ability to raise capital or recruit managerial or scientific personnel or obtain research grants. As an early stage small company that will be competing against numerous large, established companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other resources than we have, we will be at a significant competitive disadvantage. The pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industry is characterized by intense competition and rapid and significant technological changes and advancements. Many companies, research institutions and universities are doing research and development work in a number of areas similar to those that we focus on that could lead to the development of new products which could compete with and be superior to our product candidates. Most of the companies with which we compete have substantially greater financial, technical, research, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other resources than those of ours. A number of these companies may have or may develop technologies for developing products for treating various diseases, including brain cancers, that could prove to be superior to ours. We expect technological developments in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical and related fields to occur at a rapid rate, and we believe competition will intensify as advances in these fields are made. Accordingly, we will be 20 Table of Contents required to continue to devote substantial resources and efforts to research and development activities in order to potentially achieve and maintain a competitive position in this field. Products that we develop may become obsolete before we are able to market them or to recover all or any portion of our research and development expenses. We will be competing with respect to our products with companies that have significantly more experience and expertise in undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials with new or improved therapeutic products and obtaining regulatory approvals of such products. A number of these companies already market and may be in advanced phases of clinical testing of various drugs that will or may compete with our current product candidates or other future potential product candidates. Our competitors may develop or commercialize products more rapidly than we do or with significant advantages over any products we develop. Our competitors may therefore be more successful in commercializing their products than we are, which could adversely affect our competitive position and business. In addition to larger pharmaceutical or biopharmaceutical companies that may develop different competing technologies or technologies within the cellular and stem cell field, we will be competing with a number of smaller biotechnology companies that are focused on cellular therapy and cancer vaccine technologies, which may include among others AVANT Therapeutics, Dendreon, Northwest Biotherapeutics, Antigenics, Celldex Therapeutics, NeuralStem, Geron, NeuroNova, ReNeuron, Stemcells, Inc., Advanced Cell Technology and Osiris Therapeutics. We are aware that Dendreon and Northwest Biotherapeutics have conducted clinical trials with cancer vaccine product candidates utilizing dendritic cells (including a Northwest Biotherapeutics candidate for treating brain tumors), and AVANT Therapeutics is also currently conducting clinical trials to treat glioblastoma with their cancer vaccine. Other existing and new companies that may enter the field, may also be developing vaccines of this type. Drugs targeting cancer stem cells is a new emerging field, and a number of companies are developing products that are in various stages of clinical or preclinical development. We will be competing with these companies, which may have more resources than we have. This list may include among others ChemGenex, GlaxoSmithKline, Geron, Stemline Therapeutics, OncoMed Pharmaceuticals, Raven and Arius Research. In addition, a number of academic and research centers are doing research in this area which may be commercialized by new or existing companies. A number of monoclonal antibody products currently are being marketed for the treatment of cancer, including Rituxan®, Herceptin®, Compath®, Avastin®, Erbitux®, Vectibix®, Zevatin®, and Bexxar®, and numerous other monoclonal antibody based products are under development for the treatment of cancer. Accordingly, our monoclonal antibody products, if marketed, can be expected to compete with a number of monoclonal antibody products (as well as other products for the treatment of cancer) that are well established and marketed by substantial organizations. Colleges, universities, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are becoming more active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties for use of technologies that they have developed, some of which may be directly competitive with our lead product candidate or any future product candidates. The governments of a number of foreign countries are aggressively investing in cellular therapy research and promoting such research by public and private institutions within those countries. These domestic and foreign institutions and governmental agencies, along with pharmaceutical and specialized biotechnology companies, also can be expected to compete with us in recruiting qualified scientific personnel. 21 Table of Contents We will need to outsource and rely on third parties for the clinical development and manufacture, sales and marketing of our current product candidates or any future product candidates, and our future success will be dependent on the timeliness and effectiveness of the efforts of these third parties. We do not have the required financial and human resources to carry out on our own all the pre-clinical and clinical development for our vaccine product candidates or any other or future product candidates, and do not have the capability and resources to manufacture, market or sell our current product candidates or any future product candidates. Vaccines are often administered with one or more adjuvants, which if necessary we will have to procure from a third-party source. We will need to rely on a firm with expertise in producing a humanized form of our monoclonal antibody product candidates. Our business model calls for the outsourcing of the clinical and other development and manufacturing, sales and marketing of our product candidates in order to reduce our capital and infrastructure costs as a means of potentially improving our financial position. We have granted Roche Group an option to acquire a license to develop and commercialize ICT-69, one of our monoclonal antibody product candidates, although there is no assurance that Roche Group will elect to exercise that option. We currently are seeking a partner or licensee to be responsible for the early stage development of our other monoclonal antibody product candidates. Since we do not have any significant efficacy data for these product candidates, it will be more difficult for us to obtain partners or licensees on attractive terms or at all at this stage. Accordingly, we will seek to enter, at the appropriate time, into agreements with other companies that can assist us and provide certain capabilities that we do not possess. Even if we do succeed in securing these alliances, we may not be able to maintain them if, for example, development results are disappointing or approval of a product is delayed or sales of an approved product are below expectations. Furthermore, any delay in entering into agreements could delay the development and commercialization of our products and reduce their competitiveness even if they reach the market. Any such delay related to our agreements could adversely affect our business. If any party to which we have outsourced certain functions fails to perform its obligations under agreements with us, the development and commercialization of our lead product candidate and any future product candidates could be delayed or terminated. To the extent that we rely on third-party individuals or other companies to manage the day-to-day conduct of our clinical trials or to manufacture, sell or market our current product candidates or any future product candidates, we will be dependent on the timeliness and effectiveness of their efforts. If a clinical research management organization that we might utilize is unable to allocate sufficient qualified personnel to our studies or if the work performed by it does not fully satisfy the rigorous requirements of the FDA, we may encounter substantial delays and increased costs in completing our clinical trials. If a firm producing humanized forms of our molecular antibody product candidates or a manufacturer of the raw material or finished product for our clinical trials is unable to meet our time schedules or cost parameters, the timing of our clinical trials and development of our product candidates may be adversely affected. Any manufacturer that we select may encounter difficulties in scaling-up the manufacture of new products in commercial quantities, including problems involving product yields, product stability or shelf life, quality control, adequacy of control procedures and policies, compliance with FDA regulations and the need for further FDA approval of any new manufacturing processes and facilities. The manufacture of clinical supplies for studies and commercial quantities of our current product candidates and any future product candidates are likely to be inherently more difficult and costly than typical chemical pharmaceuticals. This could delay commercialization of any of our product candidates or reduce the profitability of these candidates for us. If any of these occur, the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed, curtailed or terminated because we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue such development and commercialization on our own. 22 Table of Contents If we or our manufacturers or service providers fail to comply with regulatory laws and regulations, we or they could be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect our ability to market and sell our vaccine product candidates and any other or future product candidates and may harm our reputation. If we or our collaborators, manufacturers or service providers fail to comply with applicable federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect our ability to develop, market and sell our current product candidates or any future product candidates under development successfully and could harm our reputation and lead to reduced or non-acceptance of our proposed product candidates by the market. Even technical recommendations or evidence by the FDA through letters, site visits, and overall recommendations to academia or biotechnology companies may make the manufacturing of a clinical product extremely labor intensive or expensive, making the product candidate no longer viable to manufacture in a cost efficient manner. The very nature of the product may make the product candidate not commercially viable. The required testing of the product candidate may make that candidate no longer commercially viable. The conduct of clinical trials may be critiqued by the FDA, or a clinical trial site’s Institutional Review Board or Institutional Biosafety Committee; which may delay or make impossible clinical testing of a product candidate. The Data Safety Monitoring Committee for a clinical trial established by us may stop a trial or deem a product candidate unsafe to continue testing. This may have significant negative repercussions on the value of the product candidate and may have negative repercussions on the company and on the shareholders. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals, our products will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. Following any initial regulatory approval of any products we may develop, we will also be subject to continuing regulatory review, including the review of adverse drug experiences and clinical results that are reported after our products are made commercially available. This would include results from any post-marketing tests or vigilance required as a condition of approval. The manufacturer and manufacturing facilities we use to make any of our products will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. The discovery of any previously unknown problems with the product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the product or manufacturer or facility, including withdrawal of the product from the market. We do not have, and currently do not intend to develop, the ability to manufacture material for our clinical trials or on a commercial scale. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks, including the continuation of a contractual or other relationship with the third-party manufacturer, and reliance on the third-party manufacturer for regulatory compliance. Our product promotion and advertising also will be subject to regulatory requirements and continuing FDA review. The potential ramifications are far-reaching if there are areas identified as out of compliance by regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, significant financial penalties, manufacturing and clinical trial consent decrees, commercialization restrictions or other restrictions and litigation. Our patents may not protect the proprietorship of our products. Our ability to compete successfully will depend significantly on our ability to defend patents that may have issued, obtain new patents, protect trade secrets and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others or others infringing on our proprietary rights. Although Cedars-Sinai as our licensor has filed applications relative to our cancer vaccine technology, we are responsible going forward to prosecute these patent applications. We do not currently own or have licensed rights to any issued patents covering our cancer vaccine technology, and there is no guarantee that these patent applications will lead to issued patents. Issuance of patents based upon the various patent applications licensed from Cedars-Sinai will depend upon the U.S. and foreign patent agencies being able to determine that the claims made in these applications were not already publicly known or were not obvious from prior published patents and 23 Table of Contents literature, including the extensive previous vaccine work performed and published by Dr. John Yu and other researchers at Cedars-Sinai. We have recently filed a provisional patent application covering our cancer stem cell vaccine product candidate. Another patent application that we licensed from Cedars-Sinai and that we have been pursuing was rejected by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office based on prior art. This patent application covers the treatment of brain and other cancers by a combination of a dendritic cell-based vaccine and chemotherapy. We are seeking patent protection for our dendritic cell-based vaccine product candidate primarily through our licensed multiple antigen patent application. We are not dependent on any of the claims in the combination therapy application being granted in order to complete the development of or to commercialize our lead cancer stem cell vaccine product candidate or our dendritic cell-based vaccine product candidate. We may in the future elect to abandon one of more of our pending patent applications that do not provide significant coverage for the product candidates or technologies that we have focused on for strategic purposes. Even if we are able to obtain patent protection for our vaccine product candidates or any of our other or future product candidates, there is no guarantee that the coverage of these patents or the existing patents we own covering our monoclonal antibody based technology will be sufficiently broad to protect us from competitors or that we will be able to enforce our patents against potential infringement by third parties. Patent litigation is expensive, and we may not be able to afford the costs. We may not become aware on a timely basis that products we are developing or marketing infringe the rights of others, nor may we be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce our own intellectual property rights. Protecting our intellectual property rights may also consume significant management time and resources. Dr. John Yu, a co-inventor of our cellular-based therapy technology who serves as our Chairman of the Board, is employed by Cedars-Sinai, which may assert that future intellectual property generated by Dr. Yu belongs to that institution rather than to us, and we may be required to seek a license from Cedars-Sinai for any such rights. We acquired our monoclonal antibody related technology from Molecular Discoveries, but third parties who previously employed that company’s lead scientist could potentially assert ownership claims to the technology. We do not have any issued patents or patent applications covering DIAAD and may not be able to protect this technology through any trade secrets that we may hold or future patents, if any, that we may seek to obtain. Nondisclosure agreements with employees and third parties may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we will also rely in part on nondisclosure agreements with our employees, licensing partners, consultants, agents and other organizations to which we disclose our proprietary information. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information, may be limited as to their term, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Since we will rely on trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements, in addition to patents, to protect some of our intellectual property, there is a risk that third parties may obtain and improperly utilize our proprietary information to our competitive disadvantage. We may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. 24 Table of Contents The manufacture, use or sale of our current product candidates or any future product candidates may infringe on the patent rights of others, and we may be forced to litigate if an intellectual property dispute arises. Should third parties patent specific cells, systems, receptors, monoclonal antibodies or other items that we are seeking to utilize in our development activities, we may be forced to license rights from these parties or abandon our development activities if we are unable to secure these rights on attractive terms or at all. In light of the large number of companies and institutions engaged in research and development in the cellular therapy and monoclonal antibody fields, we anticipate that many parties will be seeking patent rights for many cellular or monoclonal antibody based technologies and that licensing and cross licensing of these rights among various competitors may arise. Our dendritic cell-based vaccine product candidate utilizes six antigens for which we will be required to obtain licenses from a number of other parties before we can commercialize this product candidate. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain these licenses on attractive terms or at all, which could result in our having to reformulate or abandon this product candidate. In addition, Cedars-Sinai has previously granted another institution rights to the use of certain peptide materials that we may seek to incorporate into one or more of our cellular-based therapy product candidates. We may be required to obtain a license from that other institution if we wish to use these materials. If we are unable to obtain this license, we would be required to develop vaccine products without the potential enhanced benefits that could be provided by these materials. If we infringe or are alleged to have infringed another party’s patent rights, we may be required to defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court. Patent litigation is costly and time consuming. We may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. In addition, if we do not obtain a license, do not successfully defend an infringement action or are unable to have infringed patents declared invalid, we may: • incur substantial monetary damages; • encounter significant delays in marketing our current product candidates or any future product candidates; • be unable to conduct or participate in the manufacture, use or sale of product candidates or methods of treatment requiring licenses; • lose patent protection for our inventions and products; or • find our patents are unenforceable, invalid, or have a reduced scope of protection. Parties making such claims may be able to obtain injunctive relief that could effectively block our ability to further develop or commercialize our current product candidates or any future product candidates in the United States and abroad and could result in the award of substantial damages. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any such license could substantially harm us. Litigation, regardless of outcome, could result in substantial cost to and a diversion of efforts by us. We will be dependent on our key personnel, and the loss of one or more of our key personnel would materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. Except for our President and Chief Executive Officer and our Vice President – Product Development and Manufacturing, we do not have any full-time management personnel. We are dependent on our officers and directors for their scientific or managerial skills, including Dr. John Yu, our Chairman of the Board, and Dr. Manish Singh, our President and Chief Executive Officer. However, these individuals (with the exception of Dr. Singh and our Vice President – Product Development and Manufacturing) are associated with us on a part-time basis only. We do not currently maintain key man 25 Table of Contents life insurance on Drs. Yu and Singh, and our employment contract with Dr. Singh and our agreement with Dr. Yu under which he serves as our Chief Scientific Officer expire in February 2011, and the loss of either of their services would materially and adversely affect our business. As we retain additional full-time senior personnel, our overhead expenses for salaries and related items will increase substantially from current levels. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain qualified senior personnel and our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our business plan. The market success of our current product candidates and any future product candidates will be dependent in part upon third-party reimbursement policies that have not yet been established for our product candidates. Our ability to successfully commercialize and penetrate the market for our current product candidates and any future product candidates is likely to depend significantly on the availability of reimbursement for our lead product candidate or any other or future product candidates from third-party payers, such as governmental agencies, private insurers and private health plans. Even if we are successful in bringing a proposed product candidate to the market, these product candidates may not be considered cost-effective, and the amount reimbursed for our products may be insufficient to allow us to sell any of our products on a competitive basis. We cannot predict whether levels of reimbursement for our product candidates, if any, will be high enough to allow the price of our product candidates to include a reasonable profit margin. Even with FDA approval, third-party payers may deny reimbursement if the payer determines that our particular product candidates are unnecessary, inappropriate or not cost effective. If patients are not entitled to receive reimbursements similar to reimbursements for competing products which currently are reimbursable, they may be unwilling to use our product candidates since they will have to pay for the unreimbursed amounts. The reimbursement status of newly approved health care products is highly uncertain. If levels of reimbursement are decreased in the future, the demand for our lead proposed product candidate and any future product candidates could diminish or our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis could be adversely affected. We believe that the efforts of governments and third-party payors to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare will continue to affect the business and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies. A number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in the United States and other major healthcare markets have been proposed in recent years. These proposals have included prescription drug benefit legislation recently enacted in the United States and healthcare reform legislation recently enacted by certain states. Further federal and state legislative and regulatory developments are possible, and we expect ongoing initiatives in the United States to increase pressure on drug pricing. Such reforms could have an adverse effect on anticipated revenues from any products that we may successfully develop. We may be subject to product liability and other claims that could have a material negative effect on our operations and on our financial condition. The development and sale of medical products in general, and vaccines in particular, expose us to the risk of significant damages from product liability and other claims. Product liability claims could delay or prevent completion of our clinical development programs. If we succeed in marketing our current lead products candidate or any future product candidates, such claims could result in an FDA investigation of the safety and effectiveness of our products or our marketing programs, and potentially a recall of our products or more serious enforcement action, or limitations on the indications for which they may be used, or suspension or withdrawal of approval. We plan to obtain and maintain product liability insurance for coverage of our clinical trial activities and obtained this coverage for the recently completed clinical trial of our dendritic cell-based vaccine product candidate. There is no assurance that we will be able to secure such insurance in the amounts we are seeking or at all for any of the future trials for our 26 Table of Contents current product candidates or any future product candidates. We intend to obtain coverage for our products when they enter the marketplace (as well as requiring the manufacturers of our products to maintain insurance), but we do not know if insurance will be available to us at acceptable costs or at all. The costs for many forms of liability insurance have risen substantially in recent years and the costs for insuring a vaccine type product may be higher than other pharmaceutical products, and such costs may continue to increase in the future, which could materially impact our costs for clinical or product liability insurance. If the cost is too high, we will have to self-insure, and we may have inadequate financial resources to pay the costs of any claims. A successful claim in excess of our product liability coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may encounter delays and difficulties in the development of technologies or operations of any other businesses we may acquire. We may, from time to time, acquire technologies or businesses that are complimentary to our existing technologies or operations or that we otherwise believe offer an attractive opportunity for us in the future. We may encounter various types of unanticipated difficulties in connection with developing these technologies or operating these businesses; the risk of these occurring potentially being greater if these technologies or businesses are not directly related to any existing technology of operations. Any such difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and condition. Risks Related to Our Securities Our stock may be traded infrequently and in low volumes, so you may be unable to sell your shares at or near the quoted bid prices if you need to sell your shares. The shares of our common stock may trade infrequently and in low volumes on the OTC Bulletin Board, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common shares at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation may be attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small early stage company which is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community who can generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such institutionally oriented persons, they tend to be risk-averse in this environment and would be reluctant to follow an early stage company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common shares will develop or be sustained. Due to these conditions, we can give you no assurance that you will be able to sell your shares at or near bid prices or at all if you need money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares. As a result, investors could lose all or part of their investment. You may have difficulty selling our shares because they are deemed “penny stocks.” Since our common stock is not listed on a national securities exchange, if the trading price of our common stock remains below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock will be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Exchange Act, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a penny stock (generally, any non-national securities exchange equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions). Such rules require the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally defined as an investor with a net worth in 27 Table of Contents excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 individually or $300,000 together with a spouse). For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to the broker-dealer, current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. Such information must be provided to the customer orally or in writing before or with the written confirmation of trade sent to the customer. Monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the common stock and the ability of holders of the common stock to sell their shares. Our existing directors, executive officers and principal stockholders hold a substantial amount of our common stock and may be able to prevent other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. As of March 1, 2010, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 34% of our outstanding common stock. Dr. John Yu also currently is entitled to serve as a director and to designate two of our other directors. These stockholders, if they act together, and Dr. Yu, through his right to name three of our directors, may be able to direct the outcome of matters, including the election of our directors and other corporate actions such as: • our merger with or into another company; • a sale of substantially all of our assets; and • amendments to our certificate of incorporation. The decisions of these stockholders may conflict with our interests or those of our other stockholders. Potential conflicts of interest could arise for certain members of our management team in the performance of their services for us. Dr. John Yu, our Chairman of the Board, and Dr. Keith Black, the Chairman of our Scientific Advisory Board, are full-time employees of Cedars-Sinai, which owns shares of our common stock and where we plan to conduct certain research and development work, including clinical trials of our vaccine product candidates. Potential conflicts of interest could arise as a result, including for Dr. Yu and Dr. Black in performing services for us and for Cedars-Sinai, in establishing the terms under which Cedars-Sinai performs work for us, and in Cedars-Sinai conducting the research. Dr. Yu and other scientists associated with Dr. Yu at Cedars-Sinai may perform research in the field of brain tumors that is sponsored by other third parties. We will not acquire any interest in the intellectual property generated by this research, including several clinical trials with dendritic cell based vaccines that have been completed or are planned to be initiated. These studies may compete for patients to be enrolled in clinical trials with our current or future clinical trials. Substantial sales of our common stock could cause our common stock price to fall. In addition to our shares of common stock covered by this prospectus, there are currently approximately 16,067,842 shares of our currently outstanding common stock and another 9,909,230 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of options are eligible to be sold pursuant to Rule 144 or currently effective registration statements. The possibility that substantial amounts of our common stock may be sold in the public market may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. 28 Table of Contents Our securities are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may limit the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on or a national securities exchange. Our securities are currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, an NASD-sponsored and operated inter-dealer automated quotation system for equity securities not listed on a national securities exchange. Quotation of our securities on the OTC Bulletin Board may limit the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on a national securities exchange. Some investors may perceive our securities to be less attractive because they are traded in the over-the-counter market. In addition, as an OTC Bulletin Board listed company, we do not attract the extensive analyst coverage that accompanies companies listed on a national securities exchange. Further, institutional and other investors may have investment guidelines that restrict or prohibit investing in securities traded in the over-the-counter market. These factors may have an adverse impact on the trading and price of our securities. The market price of our stock may be adversely affected by market volatility. The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to many factors, including: • announcements of the results of clinical trials by us or our competitors; • developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; • announcements of new products or new contracts by us or our competitors; • actual or anticipated variations in our operating results due to the level of development expenses and other factors; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and whether our earnings meet or exceed such estimates; • conditions and trends in the pharmaceutical and other industries; • new accounting standards; • general economic, political and market conditions and other factors; and • the occurrence of any of the risks described in this report. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 