Item 1A. Risk Factors. The more prominent risks and uncertainties inherent in our business are described below. However, additional risks and uncertainties may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may suffer. Any of the following factors could harm our business and future results of operations, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Merger If our acquisition by JLL is not completed as expected, our stock price, business and results of operations may suffer. On January 30, 2013, it was announced that affiliates of JLL, including Parent and Purchaser, entered into the Merger Agreement with us whereby Parent will acquire us. The acquisition will be carried out in two steps. The first step is the tender offer by Purchaser to purchase all of our outstanding shares of common stock at a price of $7.25 per share, payable net to the seller in cash. Unless subsequently extended, the Tender Offer will expire on March 11, 2013 at 12:00 midnight New York City time. Following the successful completion of the Tender Offer, Purchaser will be merged with the Company, and all shares of our common stock not purchased in the Tender Offer (other than shares held by Purchaser or its affiliates or the Company and dissenting shares) will be converted into the right to receive $7.25 in cash per share of our common stock. In addition, under the terms of the Merger Agreement, Purchaser is granted an option to acquire up to one share more than 90% of our issued and outstanding common stock if necessary to allow a “short-form” merger under Delaware law, which would not require a stockholder vote. The Merger is subject to customary conditions. The Merger might be delayed or prevented if a court or other governmental authority were to block the merger or make it illegal. If the Merger is delayed or otherwise not consummated within the contemplated time periods or at all, we could suffer a number of consequences that may adversely affect our business, results of operations and stock price, including: · activities related to the merger and related uncertainties may lead to a loss of revenue and market position that we may not be able to regain if the proposed transaction does not occur; · the market price of our common stock could decline following an announcement that the proposed transaction had been abandoned or delayed; · because Purchaser would own a substantial majority of our common stock, there may not be an active trading market for our remaining shares of common stock and we may not be able to sustain our NASDAQ listing; · we would remain liable for our costs related to the proposed transaction, including substantial legal, accounting and investment banking expenses; and · we may not be able to take advantage of alternative business opportunities or effectively respond to competitive pressures. Lawsuits have been filed against us, our Board, JLL, Parent and Purchaser arising out of our proposed acquisition by JLL, and if not settled or otherwise resolved, they may result in additional costs and distraction. Starting on February 1, 2013, several purported stockholders of BioClinica have filed complaints styled as class action lawsuits in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (the “Court of Chancery”) against 10 Table of Contents BioClinica, Inc., the BioClinica board of directors, JLL Partners, Inc., BioCore Holdings, Inc. and BC Acquisition Corp. The complaints allege, among other things, that the board of directors of BioClinica conducted an unfair sales process resulting in an unfair consideration to the BioClinica stockholders in the Offer, and certain lawsuits allege that the information disclosed about the transaction was inadequate and omitted material information. The complaints assert that BioClinica’s board members breached their fiduciary duties in agreeing to the Offer and that BioClinica, JLL, Parent and Purchaser aided and abetted in the breaches of fiduciary duties. In addition, certain lawsuits bring claims against the board of directors for breach of fiduciary duty for materially misleading and inadequate disclosures. The lawsuits seek to enjoin the Offer and seek other equitable relief and unspecified monetary damages. BioClinica and the BioClinica board of directors believe the claims are without merit and intend to defend them vigorously. If these lawsuits are not resolved at an early stage, they could divert the attention of our management and employees from our day-to-day business and otherwise adversely affect us financially. Risks Related to Our Company and Business We may incur financial losses because contracts may be delayed or terminated or reduced in scope for reasons beyond our control. Our clients may terminate or delay their contracts for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to: · unexpected or undesired clinical results; · the client’s decision to terminate the development of a particular product or to end a particular study; · insufficient patient enrollment in a study; · insufficient investigator recruitment; · failure to perform our obligations under the contract; or · the failure of products to satisfy safety requirements. In addition, we believe that companies that are regulated by the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, may proceed with fewer clinical trials or conduct them without assistance of contract service organizations if they are trying to reduce costs as a result of cost containment pressures associated with healthcare reform, budgetary limits or changing priorities. These factors may cause such companies to cancel contracts with contract service organizations. We cannot assure you that our clients will continue to use our services or that we will be able to replace, in a timely or effective manner, departing clients with new clients that generate comparable revenues. Further, we cannot assure you that our clients will continue to generate consistent amounts of revenues over time. The loss, reduction in scope or delay of a large contract or the loss or delay of multiple contracts could materially adversely affect our business. We depend on a small number of industries and clients for all of our business, and the loss of one such significant client could cause revenues to drop quickly and unexpectedly. We depend on research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies to sustain our business. Our operations could be materially and adversely affected if: · our clients’ businesses experience financial problems or are affected by a general economic downturn; · consolidation in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device industries leads to a smaller client 11 Table of Contents base for us; or · clients reduce their research and development expenditures. Contracts with one client, Pfizer Inc., which encompassed 24 projects, represented 18.7% of our service revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. Contracts with Pfizer, Inc., which encompassed 21 projects, represented 19.8% of our service revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. The loss of business from a significant client or our failure to continue to obtain new business to replace completed or cancelled projects would have a material adverse effect on our business and revenues. Our contracted/committed backlog may not be indicative of future results. Our reported contracted/committed backlog of $122.2 million at December 31, 2012 is based on anticipated service revenue from uncompleted projects with clients. Backlog is the expected service revenue that remains to be earned and recognized on signed and verbally agreed to contracts. Contracts included in backlog are subject to termination by our clients at any time. In the event that a client cancels a contract, we would be entitled to receive payment for all services performed up to the cancellation date and subsequent client authorized services related to the cancellation of the project. The duration of the projects included in our backlog range from less than three months to seven years. We cannot assure you that this backlog will be indicative of future results. A number of factors may affect backlog, including: · the variable size and duration of the projects (some are performed over several years); · the loss or delay of projects; · the change in the scope of work during the course of a project; and · the cancellation of such contracts by our clients. Also, if clients delay projects, the projects will remain in backlog, but will not generate revenue at the rate originally expected. Accordingly, the historical relationship of backlog to revenues may not be indicative of future results. We made one acquisition in the first quarter 2010, two acquisitions in the third quarter of 2009, and may engage in future acquisitions, which may be expensive and time consuming, and from which we may not realize anticipated benefits. On March 25, 2010, we acquired substantially all of the assets of privately held TranSenda International, LLC, headquartered in Bellevue, WA. In the third quarter of 2009, we acquired the CardioNow unit from AGFA Healthcare and substantially all of the assets of Tourtellotte Solutions, Inc. and may acquire additional businesses, technologies and products if we determine that these additional businesses, technologies and products complement our existing business, or otherwise serve our strategic goals. Either as a result of the recent acquisitions or future acquisitions undertaken, the process of integrating the acquired business, technology or product may result in operating difficulties and expenditures, and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any such acquisition. Such acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Loss of key personnel, or failure to attract and retain additional personnel, may cause the success and growth of our business to suffer. Future success depends on the personal efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management to provide strategic direction, develop business, manage operations and maintain a cohesive and stable environment. Specifically, we are dependent upon Mark L. Weinstein, President and Chief Executive Officer, Ted I. Kaminer, Executive Vice President of Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer, Garry Johnson, Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer and Peter Benton, Executive Vice President, President of eClinical Solutions. Although we have employment agreements with Mr. Weinstein, Mr. Kaminer and Mr. Benton, this does not necessarily mean that they will remain with us. Although we have executive retention agreements with our officers, we do not have employment agreements with any other key personnel. Furthermore, our performance also depends on our ability to attract and retain management and qualified professional and technical operating staff. Competition for these skilled personnel is intense. The loss of services of any key executive, or inability to continue to attract and retain qualified staff, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not maintain any key employee insurance on any of our executives. We may not be able to effectively manage our international operations. We maintain facilities in France, the Netherlands and India, and we may continue to expand our international operations in the future. There are significant risks associated with the establishment of foreign operations, including, but not limited to: geopolitical risks, foreign currency exchange rates and the impact of shifts in the U.S. and local economies on those rates, compliance with local laws and regulations, the protection of our intellectual property and that of our customers, the ability to integrate our corporate culture with local customs and cultures, and the ability to effectively and efficiently supply our international facilities with the required equipment and materials. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, these locations may not produce the revenues, earnings, or strategic benefits that we anticipate which could have a material adverse affect on our business. Our revenues, earnings and operating costs are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. During the year ended December 31, 2012, a portion of our service revenues were denominated in foreign currency. Our financial statements are denominated in United States dollars. In the event a greater portion of our service revenues are denominated in a foreign currency, changes in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could materially impact the operating costs of our European facilities in Leiden, the Netherlands and Lyon, France, which are primarily Euro denominated. We may be required to record additional significant charges to earnings if our goodwill becomes impaired. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we review our goodwill for impairment each year as of December 31 and when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. The carrying value of our goodwill may not be recoverable due to factors such as a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. Estimates of future cash flows are based on an updated long-term financial outlook of our operations. However, actual performance in the near-term or long-term could be materially different from these forecasts, which could impact future estimates. For example, a significant decline in our stock price and/or market capitalization may result in impairment of our goodwill valuation. We may be required to record a charge to earnings in our financial statements during a period in which an impairment of our goodwill is determined to exist, which may negatively impact our results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Our software products and hosted solutions are at varying stages of market acceptance and the failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain wide acceptance would harm our operating results. We began offering our electronic data capture software solution for clinical trials in March 2008. Continued use of our current electronic data capture software products, and broad and timely acceptance of newly-introduced electronic data capture software products, as well as integrated solutions combining one or more of our software products, is critical to our future success and is subject to a number of significant risks, some of which are outside our control. These risks include: · our customers’ and prospective customers’ desire for and acceptance of our electronic data capture, clinical data management, drug safety and interactive response technology solutions; · our ability to meet product development and release schedules; · our software products and hosted solutions’ ability to support large numbers of users and manage vast amounts of data; · our ability to significantly expand our internal resources and increase our capital and operating expenses to support the anticipated growth and continued integration of our software products, services and hosted solutions; and · our customers’ ability to use our software products and hosted solutions, train their employees and successfully deploy our technology in their clinical trial and safety evaluation and monitoring activities. Our failure to address, mitigate or manage these risks would seriously harm our business, particularly if the failure of any or all of our software products or hosted solutions to achieve market acceptance negatively affects our sales of our other products and services. We may be unable to adequately protect, and we may incur significant costs in defending, our intellectual property and other proprietary rights or in defending claims that we are infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely upon a combination of trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent and unfair competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. In addition, we attempt to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information by requiring certain of our employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality, non-competition and assignment of inventions agreements. To the extent that our intellectual property and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected, third parties might gain access to our proprietary information, develop and market products or services similar to ours or use trademarks similar to ours, each of which could materially harm our business. Existing U.S. federal and state intellectual property laws offer only limited protection. Moreover, the laws of other countries in which we market our software products, services and hosted solutions may afford little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. If we are involved in legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement by third parties, the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive, even if we were to prevail. Any potential infringement actions brought against us could require us to stop using the product or service which incorporates such third party intellectual property, obtain a license to use such third party intellectual property (which could be costly or unavailable) or redesign our products or services that incorporate such third party intellectual property (which could be time consuming and costly and affect the market acceptance of such product or service). The failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights or acknowledge third party intellectual property rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Our failure to compete effectively in our industry could cause our revenues to decline. Significant factors in determining whether we will be able to compete successfully include: · consultative and clinical trials design capabilities; · reputation for on-time quality performance; · expertise and experience in specific therapeutic areas; · the scope of service offerings; · strength in various geographic markets; · the price of services; · ability to acquire, process, analyze and report data in a time-saving and accurate manner; · ability to manage large-scale clinical trials both domestically and internationally; · our size; · the service and product offerings of our competitors; and · our ability to upgrade our products, services and hosted solutions so such offerings are not deemed obsolete in comparison to the service and product offerings of our competitors. If our services are not competitive based on these or other factors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. The biopharmaceutical services industry is highly competitive, and we face numerous competitors in our business, including hundreds of CROs. If we fail to compete effectively, we will lose clients, which would cause our business to suffer. We primarily compete against in-house departments of pharmaceutical companies, full service CROs, small specialty CROs, and to a lesser extent, universities and teaching hospitals. Some of these competitors have substantially greater capital, technical and other resources than we do. In addition, certain of our competitors that are smaller specialized companies may compete effectively against us because of their concentrated size and focus. Changes in outsourcing trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries could adversely affect our operating results and growth rate. Service revenues depend greatly on the expenditures made by the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in research and development. Accordingly, economic factors and industry trends that affect our clients in these industries also affect our business. For example, the practice of many companies in these industries has been to hire outside organizations like us to conduct clinical research projects. This practice has grown significantly in the last decade, and we have benefited from this trend. However, if this trend were to change and companies in these industries were to reduce the number of research and development projects they outsource, our business could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, numerous governments have undertaken efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and pharmaceutical companies. If future regulatory cost containment efforts limit the profits that can be derived from new drug sales, our clients might reduce their research and development spending, which could reduce our business. 15 Table of Contents Consolidation among our customers could cause us to lose customers, decrease the market for our products and result in a reduction of our revenues. Our customer base could decline because of industry consolidation, and we may not be able to expand sales of our products and services to new customers. Consolidation in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries has accelerated in recent years, and we expect this trend to continue. As these industries consolidate, competition to provide products and services to industry participants will become more intense and the importance of establishing relationships with large industry participants will become greater. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. Also, if consolidation of larger current customers occurs, the combined organization may represent a larger percentage of business for us and, as a result, we are likely to rely more significantly on the combined organization’s revenues to continue to achieve growth. The current extended economic downturn coupled with the current regulatory environment could have a negative impact on the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries. The current extended economic downturn and adverse conditions in the national and global markets may negatively affect our operations in the future. Our revenues are contingent upon the research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. Some companies in these industries have found it difficult to raise capital in the equity and debt markets or through traditional credit markets to fund research and development. In addition, increased regulatory scrutiny from the FDA may have increased the costs of research and development for these companies. These companies have responded to the current extended economic downturn and regulatory environment by postponing, attenuating or cancelling clinical trials projects, or portions thereof, which may reduce the need for our services. As a result, our revenues may be similarly decreased. Furthermore, while our revenues may decrease, our costs may remain relatively fixed, resulting in decreased earnings. Failure to comply with existing regulations could result in increased costs to complete clinical trials. Our business is subject to numerous governmental regulations, primarily relating to pharmaceutical product development and the conduct of clinical trials. In particular, we are subject to 21 CFR Part 11 of the Code of Federal Regulations that provides the criteria for acceptance by the FDA of electronic records. If we fail to comply with these governmental regulations, it could result in the termination of ongoing clinical research or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities. We also could be barred from providing clinical trial services in the future or be subjected to fines. Any of these consequences would harm our reputation, our prospects for future work and our operating results. We may be affected by health care reform. In March 2010, the United States Congress enacted health care reform legislation intended over time to expand health insurance coverage and impose health industry cost containment measures. This legislation may significantly impact the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition, the U.S. Congress, various state legislatures and European and Asian governments may consider various types of health care reform in order to control growing health care costs. We are presently uncertain as to the effects of the legislation on our business and are unable to predict what legislative proposals will be adopted in the future, if any. Implementation of health care reform legislation may have certain benefits but also may contain costs that could limit the profits that can be made from the development of new drugs. This could adversely affect research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, which could in turn decrease the business opportunities available to us both in the United States and abroad. In addition, new laws or regulations may create a risk of liability, increase our costs or limit our service offerings. In addition to healthcare reform legislation, the expansion of managed care organizations in the 16 Table of Contents healthcare market may result in reduced spending on research and development. Managed care organizations’ efforts to cut costs by limiting expenditures on pharmaceuticals and medical devices could result in pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies spending less on research and development. If this were to occur, we would have fewer business opportunities and our revenues could decrease, possibly materially. Changes in governmental regulation could decrease the need for the services we provide, which would negatively affect our future business opportunities. Governmental agencies throughout the world, but particularly in the United States, strictly regulate the drug development/approval process. Our business involves helping pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies navigate the regulatory drug approval process. Changes in regulation, such as relaxation in regulatory requirements or the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures or an increase in regulatory requirements that we may have difficulty satisfying could eliminate or substantially reduce the need for our services. If these changes in regulations were to occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. These and other changes in regulation could have a material adverse impact on our available business opportunities. If governmental agencies do not accept the data and analyses generated by our services, the need for our services would be eliminated or substantially reduced. The success of our business is dependent upon continued acceptance by the FDA and other regulatory authorities of the data and analyses generated by our services in connection with the evaluation of the safety and efficacy of new drugs and devices. The FDA has formal guidelines that encourage the use of “surrogate measures” through submission of digital image data, for evaluation of drugs to treat life-threatening or debilitating conditions. We cannot assure you that the FDA or other regulatory authorities will accept the data or analyses generated by us in the future and, even assuming acceptance, the FDA or other regulatory authorities may not require the application of imaging techniques to the number of patients and over time periods substantially similar to those required of traditional safety and efficacy techniques. If the governmental agencies do not accept data and analyses generated by our services in connection with the evaluation of new drugs and devices, the need for our services would be eliminated or substantially reduced, and, as a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In the course of conducting our business, we possess or could be deemed to possess personal medical information in connection with the conduct of clinical trials. If we fail to keep this information properly protected we could be subject to significant liability. Our software solutions are used to collect, manage and report information in connection with the conduct of clinical trial and safety evaluation and monitoring activities. This information is or could be considered to be personal medical information of the clinical trial participants or patients. Regulation of the use and disclosure of personal medical information is complex and growing. Increased focus on individuals’ rights to confidentiality of their personal information, including personal medical information, could lead to an increase of existing and future legislative or regulatory initiatives giving direct legal remedies to individuals, including rights to damages, against entities deemed responsible for not adequately securing such personal information. In addition, courts may look to regulatory standards in identifying or applying a common law theory of liability, whether or not that law affords a private right of action. Since we receive and process personal information of clinical trial participants and patients from customers utilizing our hosted solutions, there is a risk that we could be liable if there were a breach of any obligation to a protected person under contract, standard of practice or regulatory requirement. If we fail to properly protect this personal information that is in our possession or deemed to be in our possession, we could be subjected to significant liability. 17 Table of Contents We may be exposed to liability claims as a result of our involvement in clinical trials. We may be exposed to liability claims as a result of our involvement in clinical trials. We cannot assure you that liability claims will not be asserted against us as a result of work performed for our clients. We maintain liability insurance coverage in amounts that we believe are sufficient for the pharmaceutical services industry. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that our clients will agree to indemnify us, or that we will have sufficient insurance to satisfy any such liability claims. If a claim is brought against us and the outcome is unfavorable to us, such outcome could have a material adverse impact on us. In the event we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting, or if these internal controls are not effective, our business and financial results may suffer. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our brand and operating results could be harmed. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, and there could also be a material adverse effect on our stock price. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Your percentage ownership and voting power and the price of our common stock may decrease as a result of events that increase the number of our outstanding shares. As of December 31, 2012, we had the following capital structure (in thousands): Common stock outstanding 15,656 Common stock issuable upon: Exercise of options which are outstanding 1,586 Exercise of options which have not been granted 850 Restricted stock units outstanding 657 Total common stock outstanding assuming exercise or conversion of all of the above 18,749 As of December 31, 2012, we had outstanding options to purchase 1.6 million shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $2.80 to $8.06 per share (exercisable at a weighted average price of $5.39 per share), of which 1.2 million options were then exercisable. Exercise of our outstanding options into shares of our 18 Table of Contents common stock may significantly and negatively affect the market price for our common stock as well as decrease your percentage ownership and voting power. In addition, we may conduct future offerings of our common stock or other securities with rights to convert the securities into shares of our common stock. As a result of these and other events, such as future acquisitions, that increase the number of our outstanding shares, your percentage ownership and voting power and the price of our common stock may decrease. Shares of our common stock eligible for public sale may have a negative impact on its market price. Future sales of shares of our common stock by existing holders of our common stock or by holders of outstanding options, upon the exercise thereof, could have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2012, we had 15.7 million shares of our common stock issued and outstanding, substantially all of which are currently freely tradable. As additional shares of common stock become available for resale in the public market pursuant to registration statements and releases of lock-up agreements, the market supply of shares of common stock will increase, which could also decrease its market price. We are unable to estimate the number of shares that may be sold because this will depend on the market price for our common stock, the personal circumstances of the sellers and other factors. Any sale of substantial amounts of our common stock or other securities in the open market may adversely affect the market price of our securities and may adversely affect our ability to obtain future financing in the capital markets as well as create a potential market overhang. There are a limited number of stockholders who have significant control over our common stock, allowing them to have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, which may conflict with our interests and the interests of our other stockholders. Our directors, officers and principal stockholders (stockholders owning 10% or more of our common stock), including Covance Inc., beneficially owned 20% of the outstanding shares of common stock and restricted stock units and stock options that could have been converted to common stock at December 31, 2012, and such stockholders will have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of our directors and other corporate actions. In addition, such influence by these affiliates could have the effect of discouraging others from attempting to take us over, thereby increasing the likelihood that the market price of the common stock will not reflect a premium for control. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance further research and development and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares. Trading in our common stock may be volatile, which may result in substantial declines in its market price. The market price of our common stock has experienced historical volatility and might continue to experience volatility in the future in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in: · operating results; · analysts’ reports; 19 Table of Contents · market conditions in the industry; · changes in governmental regulations; and · changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets. The overall market (including the market for our common stock) has also experienced significant decreases in value in the past. This volatility and potential market decline could affect the market prices of securities issued by many companies, often for reasons unrelated to their operating performance, and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Between January 1, 2013 and February 5, 2013, our common stock has traded at a low of $5.50 per share and a high of $7.29 per share. Between January 1, 2012 and December 31, 2012, our common stock traded at a low of $4.22 per share and a high of $6.59 per share. Our common stock began trading on the NASDAQ Global Market, formerly called the NASDAQ National Market, on December 18, 2003 and has a limited trading market. We cannot assure that an active trading market will develop or, if developed, will be maintained. As a result, our stockholders may find it difficult to dispose of shares of our common stock and, as a result, may suffer a loss of all or a substantial portion of their investment. Certain provisions of our stockholder rights plan, charter and Delaware law could make a takeover more difficult and may also make it difficult for our stockholders to replace or remove our board of directors We have an authorized class of 3,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock, of which 1,250,000 shares were previously issued and converted into common stock and 36,000 shares designated as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock under our stockholder rights plan as previously disclosed. The remaining 1,714,000 shares may be issued by our board of directors, on such terms and with such rights, preferences and designations as the board of directors may determine. Issuance of such preferred stock, depending upon the rights, preferences and designations thereof, may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of our company. In addition, we are subject to provisions of Delaware corporate law which, subject to certain exceptions, will prohibit us from engaging in any “business combination” with a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns 15% or more of our common stock for a period of three years following the date that the person came to own 15% or more of our common stock, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Our board of directors also adopted a stockholder rights plan, dated as of July 20, 2009, as amended and restated on March 23, 2011, similar to plans adopted by many other publicly traded companies. The stockholder rights plan is intended to protect stockholders against unsolicited attempts to acquire control of us that do not offer a fair price to our stockholders as determined by our board of directors. On January 29, 2013, we amended our stockholder rights plan to make it inapplicable to the Merger, the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby. Such amendment also contemplates that the stockholder rights plan will terminate at the effective time of the Merger. These provisions of our certificate of incorporation, stockholders rights plan and of Delaware law, may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of our company, may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price and may adversely affect the market price, and the voting and other rights of the holders, of our common stock. 20 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 