Item 1A. Risk Factors. The more prominent risks and uncertainties inherent in our business are described below. However, additional risks and uncertainties may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may suffer. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Any of the following factors could harm our business and future results of operations and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Company and Business We may incur financial losses because contracts may be delayed or terminated or reduced in scope for reasons beyond our control. Our clients may terminate or delay their contracts for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to: • unexpected or undesired clinical results; • the client’s decision to terminate the development of a particular product or to end a particular study; • insufficient patient enrollment in a study; • insufficient investigator recruitment; • failure to perform our obligations under the contract; or • the failure of products to satisfy safety requirements. 8 In addition, we believe that FDA-regulated companies may proceed with fewer clinical trials or conduct them without assistance of contract service organizations if they are trying to reduce costs as a result of cost containment pressures associated with healthcare reform, budgetary limits or changing priorities. These factors may cause such companies to cancel contracts with contract service organizations. We cannot assure you that our clients will continue to use our services or that we will be able to replace, in a timely or effective manner, departing clients with new clients that generate comparable revenues. Further, we cannot assure you that our clients will continue to generate consistent amounts of revenues over time. The loss, reduction in scope or delay of a large contract or the loss or delay of multiple contracts could materially adversely affect our business, although our contracts entitle us to receive all fees earned up to the time of termination. The current economic downturn may adversely impact our ability to raise capital. The recent economic downturn and adverse conditions in the national and global markets may negatively affect our operations in the future. The falling equity markets and adverse credit markets may make it difficult for us to raise capital or procure credit in the future to fund the growth of our business, which could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations and limit our ability to pursue acquisitions. We depend on a small number of industries and clients for all of our business, and the loss of one such significant client could cause revenues to drop quickly and unexpectedly. We depend on research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies to sustain our business. Our operations could be materially and adversely affected if: • our clients’ businesses experience financial problems or are affected by a general economic downturn; • consolidation in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device industries leads to a smaller client base for us; or • clients reduce their research and development expenditures. No one client represented more than 10% of our service revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008, while for the comparable period last year, one client, Hoffmann-La Roche, which encompassed 11 projects, represented 13.4% of our service revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. The loss of business from a significant client or our failure to continue to obtain new business to replace completed or canceled projects would have a material adverse effect on our business and revenues. Our contracted/committed backlog may not be indicative of future results. Our reported contracted/committed backlog of $92.7 million at December 31, 2008 is based on anticipated service revenue from uncompleted projects with clients. Backlog is the expected service revenue that remains to be earned and recognized on signed and verbally agreed to contracts. Contracts included in backlog are subject to termination by our clients at any time. In the event that a client cancels a contract, we would be entitled to receive payment for all services performed up to the cancellation date and subsequent client authorized services related to the cancellation of the project. The duration of the projects included in our backlog range from less than three months to seven years. We cannot assure that this backlog will be indicative of future results. A number of factors may affect backlog, including: • the variable size and duration of the projects (some are performed over several years); 9 • the loss or delay of projects; • the change in the scope of work during the course of a project; and • the cancellation of such contracts by our clients. Also, if clients delay projects, the projects will remain in backlog, but will not generate revenue at the rate originally expected. Accordingly, the historical relationship of backlog to revenues may not be indicative of future results. We recently acquired Phoenix Data Systems, Inc. and may engage in future acquisitions, which may be expensive and time consuming, and from which we may not realize anticipated benefits. We recently acquired Phoenix Data Systems Inc. (PDS) and may acquire additional businesses, technologies and products if we determine that these additional businesses, technologies and products complement our existing business, or otherwise serve our strategic goals. Either as a result of the acquisition of PDS or future acquisitions undertaken, the process of integrating the acquired business, technology or product may result in operating difficulties and expenditures, and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any such acquisition. Such acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Loss of key personnel, or failure to attract and retain additional personnel, may cause the success and growth of our business to suffer. Future success depends on the personal efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management to provide strategic direction, develop business, manage operations and maintain a cohesive and stable environment. Specifically, we are dependent upon Mark L. Weinstein, President and Chief Executive Officer, Ted I. Kaminer, Executive Vice President of Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer, David A. Pitler, Executive Vice President, Bio-Imaging Services and Peter Benton, Executive Vice President, eClinical. Although we have employment agreements with Mr. Weinstein, Mr. Kaminer and Mr. Benton, this does not necessarily mean that they will remain with us. Although we have executive retention agreements with our officers, we do not have employment agreements with any other key personnel. Furthermore, our performance also depends on our ability to attract and retain management and qualified professional and technical operating staff. Competition for these skilled personnel is intense. The loss of services of any key executive, or inability to continue to attract and retain qualified staff, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not maintain any key employee insurance on any of our executives. Our revenues, earnings and operating costs are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. During fiscal 2008, a portion of our service revenues were denominated in foreign currency. Our financial statements are denominated in United States dollars. In the event a greater portion of our service revenues are denominated in a foreign currency, changes in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could materially impact the operating costs of our European facility in Leiden, the Netherlands, which are primarily Euro denominated. We hedge our foreign currency exposure when and as appropriate to mitigate the adverse impact of fluctuating exchange rates. Our investments may be exposed to credit risk. 10 Financial instruments that potentially subject us to significant credit risk consist principally of cash. As part of our risk management processes, we continuously evaluate the relative credit standing of all of the financial institutions that service us and monitor actual exposures versus established limits. We have not sustained credit losses from instruments held at financial institutions. We maintain cash and cash equivalents, comprised of savings accounts, short-term certificate of deposits and money market funds with various financial institutions. These financial institutions are generally highly rated and the company has a policy to limit the dollar amount of credit exposure with any one institution. We may be required to record additional significant charges to earnings if our goodwill becomes impaired. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we review our goodwill for impairment each year as of December 31 and when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. The carrying value of our goodwill may not be recoverable due to factors such as a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. Estimates of future cash flows are based on an updated long-term financial outlook of our operations. However, actual performance in the near-term or long-term could be materially different from these forecasts, which could impact future estimates. For example, a significant decline in our stock price and/or market capitalization may result in impairment of our goodwill valuation. We may be required to record a charge to earnings in our financial statements during a period in which an impairment of our goodwill is determined to exist, which may negatively impact our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry Our failure to compete effectively in our industry could cause our revenues to decline. Significant factors in determining whether we will be able to compete successfully include: • consultative and clinical trials design capabilities; • reputation for on-time quality performance; • expertise and experience in specific therapeutic areas; • the scope of service offerings; • strength in various geographic markets; • the price of services; • ability to acquire, process, analyze and report data in a time-saving and accurate manner; • ability to manage large-scale clinical trials both domestically and internationally; • our size; and • the service and product offerings of our competitors. If our services are not competitive based on these or other factors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. The biopharmaceutical services industry is highly competitive, and we face numerous competitors in our business, including hundreds of contract research organizations. If we fail to compete effectively, we will lose clients, which would cause our business to suffer. We primarily compete against in-house departments of pharmaceutical companies, full service contract research organizations, (CROs), small specialty CROs, and to a lesser extent, universities and teaching hospitals. Some of these competitors have substantially greater capital, technical and other resources than we do. In addition, certain of our competitors that are smaller specialized companies may compete effectively against us because of their concentrated size and focus. 11 Changes in outsourcing trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries could adversely affect our operating results and growth rate. Service revenues depend greatly on the expenditures made by the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in research and development. Accordingly, economic factors and industry trends that affect our clients in these industries also affect our business. For example, the practice of many companies in these industries has been to hire outside organizations like us to conduct clinical research projects. This practice has grown significantly in the last decade, and we have benefited from this trend. However, if this trend were to change and companies in these industries were to reduce the number of research and development projects they outsource, our business could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, numerous governments have undertaken efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and pharmaceutical companies. If future regulatory cost containment efforts limit the profits that can be derived from new drug sales, our clients might reduce their research and development spending, which could reduce our business. Consolidation among our customers could cause us to lose customers, decrease the market for our products and result in a reduction of our revenues. Our customer base could decline because of industry consolidation, and we may not be able to expand sales of our products and services to new customers. Consolidation in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries has accelerated in recent years, and we expect this trend to continue. As these industries consolidate, competition to provide products and services to industry participants will become more intense and the importance of establishing relationships with large industry participants will become greater. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. Also, if consolidation of larger current customers occurs, the combined organization may represent a larger percentage of business for us and, as a result, we are likely to rely more significantly on the combined organization’s revenues to continue to achieve growth. The current economic downturn coupled with the current regulatory environment could have a negative impact on the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries. The recent economic downturn and adverse conditions in the national and global markets may negatively affect our operations in the future. Our revenues are contingent upon the research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. Some companies in these industries have found it difficult to raise capital in the equity and debt markets or through traditional credit markets to fund research and development. In addition, increased regulatory scrutiny from the FDA may have increased the costs of research and development for these companies. These companies have responded to the general economic downturn and regulatory environment, by postponing, attenuating or cancelling clinical trials projects, or portions thereof, which may reduce the need for our services. As a result, our revenues may be similarly decreased. Furthermore, while our revenues may decrease, our costs may remain relatively fixed, resulting in decreased earnings. Failure to comply with existing regulations could result in increased costs to complete clinical trials. Our business is subject to numerous governmental regulations, primarily relating to pharmaceutical product development and the conduct of clinical trials. In particular, we are subject to 21 CFR Part 11 of the Code of Federal Regulations that provides the criteria for acceptance by the FDA of electronic records. If we fail to comply with these governmental regulations, it could result in the termination of ongoing clinical research or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities. We also could be barred from providing clinical 12 trial services in the future or be subjected to fines. Any of these consequences would harm our reputation, our prospects for future work and our operating results. Changes in governmental regulation could decrease the need for the services we provide, which would negatively affect our future business opportunities. In recent years, the United States Congress and state legislatures have considered various types of healthcare reform in order to control growing healthcare costs. The United States Congress and state legislatures may again address healthcare reform in the future. We are unable to predict what legislative proposals will be adopted in the future, if any. Similar reform movements have occurred in Europe and Asia. Implementation of healthcare reform legislation that results in additional costs could limit the profits that can be made by clients from the development of new products. This could adversely affect our clients’ research and development expenditures, which could, in turn, decrease the business opportunities available to us both in the United States and abroad. In addition, new laws or regulations may create a risk of liability, increase costs or limit service offerings. We cannot predict the likelihood of any of these events. In addition to healthcare reform proposals, the expansion of managed care organizations in the healthcare market may result in reduced spending on research and development. Managed care organizations’ efforts to cut costs by limiting expenditures on pharmaceuticals and medical devices could result in pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies spending less on research and development. If this were to occur, we would have fewer business opportunities and our revenues could decrease, possibly materially. Governmental agencies throughout the world, but particularly in the United States, strictly regulate the drug development/approval process. Our business involves helping pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies navigate the regulatory drug approval process. Changes in regulation, such as relaxation in regulatory requirements or the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures or an increase in regulatory requirements that we may have difficulty satisfying could eliminate or substantially reduce the need for our services. If these changes in regulations were to occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. These and other changes in regulation could have a material adverse impact on our available business opportunities. If governmental agencies do not accept the data and analyses generated by our services, the need for our services would be eliminated or substantially reduced. The success of our business is dependent upon continued acceptance by the FDA and other regulatory authorities of the data and analyses generated by our services in connection with the evaluation of the safety and efficacy of new drugs and devices. The FDA has formal guidelines that encourage the use of “surrogate measures” through submission of digital image data, for evaluation of drugs to treat life-threatening or debilitating conditions. We cannot assure you that the FDA or other regulatory authorities will accept the data or analyses generated by us in the future and, even assuming acceptance, the FDA or other regulatory authorities may not require the application of imaging techniques to the number of patients and over time periods substantially similar to those required of traditional safety and efficacy techniques. If the governmental agencies do not accept data and analyses generated by our services in connection with the evaluation of new drugs and devices, the need for our services would be eliminated or substantially reduced, and, as a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may be exposed to liability claims as a result of our involvement in clinical trials. 13 We may be exposed to liability claims as a result of our involvement in clinical trials. We cannot assure you that liability claims will not be asserted against us as a result of work performed for our clients. We maintain liability insurance coverage in amounts that we believe are sufficient for the pharmaceutical services industry. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that our clients will agree to indemnify us, or that we will have sufficient insurance to satisfy any such liability claims. If a claim is brought against us and the outcome is unfavorable to us, such outcome could have a material adverse impact on us. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Your percentage ownership and voting power and the price of our common stock may decrease as a result of events that increase the number of our outstanding shares. As of December 31, 2008, we had the following capital structure (in thousands): Common stock outstanding 14,341 Common stock issuable upon: Exercise of options which are outstanding 1,718 Exercise of options which have not been granted 1,133 Total common stock outstanding assuming exercise or conversion of all of the above 17,192 As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding options to purchase 1,718,173 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $0.63 to $8.06 per share (exercisable at a weighted average of $4.58 per share), of which 1,176,843 options were then exercisable. Exercise of our outstanding options into shares of our common stock may significantly and negatively affect the market price for our common stock as well as decrease your percentage ownership and voting power. In addition, we may conduct future offerings of our common stock or other securities with rights to convert the securities into shares of our common stock. As a result of these and other events, such as future acquisitions, that increase the number of our outstanding shares, your percentage ownership and voting power and the price of our common stock may decrease. Shares of our common stock eligible for public sale may have a negative impact on its market price. Future sales of shares of our common stock by existing holders of our common stock or by holders of outstanding options, upon the exercise thereof, could have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2008, we had 14.3 million shares of our common stock issued and outstanding, substantially all of which are currently freely tradable. In addition, the sale of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public market following the effectiveness of the registration statement we recently filed to register shares issued in connection with our acquisition of PDS could harm the market price of our common stock. As additional shares of common stock become available for resale in the public market pursuant to the registration statement and releases of lock-up agreements, the market supply of shares of common stock will increase, which could also decrease its market price. We are unable to estimate the number of shares that may be sold because this will depend on the market price for our common stock, the personal circumstances of the sellers and other factors. Any sale of substantial amounts of our common stock or other securities in the open market may adversely affect the market price of the securities offered hereby and may adversely affect our ability to obtain future financing in the capital markets as well as create a potential market overhang. 14 There are a limited number of stockholders who have significant control over our common stock, allowing them to have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, which may conflict with our interests and the interests of our other stockholders. Our directors, officers and principal stockholders (stockholders owning 10% or more of our common stock), including Covance Inc., beneficially owned 23.9% of the outstanding shares of common stock and stock options that could have been converted to common stock at December 31, 2008, and such stockholders will have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of our directors and other corporate actions. In addition, such influence by these affiliates could have the effect of discouraging others from attempting to take us over, thereby increasing the likelihood that the market price of the common stock will not reflect a premium for control. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance further research and development and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares. Trading in our common stock may be volatile, which may result in substantial declines in its market price. The market price of our common stock has experienced historical volatility and might continue to experience volatility in the future in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in: • operating results; • analysts’ reports; • market conditions in the industry; • changes in governmental regulations; and • changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets. The overall market (including the market for our common stock) has also experienced significant decreases in value in the past. This volatility and potential market decline could affect the market prices of securities issued by many companies, often for reasons unrelated to their operating performance, and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Between January 1, 2008 and December 31, 2008, our common stock has traded at a low of $2.15 per share and a high of $8.98 per share. Between January 1, 2009 and February 28, 2009, our common stock has traded at a low of $2.96 per share and a high of $3.72 per share. Our common stock began trading on the NASDAQ Global Market, formerly called the NASDAQ National Market, on December 18, 2003 and has a limited trading market. We cannot assure that an active trading market will develop or, if developed, will be maintained. As a result, our stockholders may find it difficult to dispose of shares of our common stock and, as a result, may suffer a loss of all or a substantial portion of their investment. Certain provisions of our charter and Delaware law could make a takeover difficult and may prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management team. 15 We have an authorized class of 3,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock, of which 1,250,000 shares were previously issued and converted to common stock. The remaining 1,750,000 shares may be issued by our board of directors, on such terms and with such rights, preferences and designation as the board of directors may determine. Issuance of such preferred stock, depending upon the rights, preferences and designations thereof, may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of our company. In addition, we are subject to provisions of Delaware corporate law which, subject to certain exceptions, will prohibit us from engaging in any “business combination” with a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns 15% or more of our common stock for a period of three years following the date that the person came to own 15% or more of our common stock, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. These provisions of our certificate of incorporation, and of Delaware law, may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of our company, may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price and may adversely affect the market price, and the voting and other rights of the holders, of our common stock. In addition, these provisions make it more difficult to replace or remove our current management team in the event our stockholders believe this would be in the best interest of our company and our stockholders. 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 