Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely impact our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.Risks Related to our BusinessA significant portion of the Bank's loan portfolio is secured by real estate loans in the Atlanta, Georgia, metropolitan area and in eastern and northern Florida markets, and continued stagnation in real estate market values in those areas may adversely affect our business.Currently, our lending and other businesses are concentrated in the Atlanta, Georgia, metropolitan area and eastern and northern Florida. As of December 31, 2012, commercial real estate, real estate mortgage, and construction loans, accounted for 47.8% of our total loan portfolio. Therefore, conditions in these markets will strongly affect the level of our nonperforming loans and our results of operations and financial condition. Real estate values and the demand for commercial and residential mortgages and construction loans are affected by, among other things, general and local economic conditions, changes in governmental regulation, monetary and fiscal policies, interest rates and weather. Continued stagnation in our real estate markets could adversely affect the demand for new real estate loans, and the value and liquidity of the collateral securing our existing loans. Adverse conditions in our markets could also reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans, and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations.14Table of ContentsConstruction and land development loans are subject to unique risks that could adversely affect earnings.Our construction and land development loan portfolio was $114.3 million at December 31, 2012, comprising 5.5% of total loans. Construction and land development loans are often riskier than home equity loans or residential mortgage loans to individuals. During general economic slowdowns, these loans represent higher risk due to slower sales and reduced cash flow that could impact the borrowers' ability to repay on a timely basis. In addition, regulations and regulatory policies affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change and we cannot predict when changes will occur or the ultimate effect of any changes. Since the latter part of 2006, there has been continued regulatory focus on construction, development and commercial real estate lending. Changes in the federal policies applicable to construction, development or commercial real estate loans make us subject to substantial limitations with respect to making such loans, increase the costs of making such loans, and require us to have a greater amount of capital to support this kind of lending, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition.Delays in our ability to foreclose on delinquent mortgage loans may negatively impact our business.Because we originate loans secured by real estate, we may have to foreclose on the collateral property to protect our investment and may thereafter own and operate such property, in which case we are exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that we, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to:•general or local economic conditions;•environmental cleanup liability;•neighborhood values;•interest rates;•real estate tax rates;•operating expenses of the mortgaged properties;•supply of and demand for rental units or properties;•ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties;•zoning laws;•governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and•natural disasters.Certain expenses associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes, insurance, and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. The ability to mitigate the losses on defaulted loans depends upon the ability to promptly foreclose upon the collateral after an appropriate cure period. In some states, the large number of mortgage foreclosures that have occurred has resulted in delays in foreclosing. Any delay in the foreclosure process will adversely affect us by increasing the expenses related to carrying such real estate and exposes us to losses as a result of potential additional declines in the value of such collateral. As a result, the increased cost of owning and operating such real estate may exceed the rental income earned from the real estate, and we may have to advance funds in order to protect our investment or we may be required to dispose of the real estate at a loss.The Allowance for loan losses may be insufficient.The Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is established and maintained through provisions charged to operations. Such provisions are based on management's evaluation of the loan portfolio, including loan portfolio concentrations, current economic conditions, the economic outlook, past loan loss experience, adequacy of underlying collateral, and such other factors which, in management's judgment, deserve consideration in estimating loan losses. Loans are charged off when, in the opinion of management, such loans are deemed to be uncollectible. Subsequent recoveries are added to the allowance.The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates of current credit risks and trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Bank's allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the estimated charge-offs utilized in determining the sufficiency of the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, regulatory capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Allowance for Loan Losses” in Item 7-“Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to our process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses.15Table of ContentsThe Bank may be unable to maintain and service relationships with automobile dealers and the Bank is subject to their willingness and ability to provide high quality indirect automobile loans.The Bank's indirect automobile lending operation depends in large part upon the ability to maintain and service relationships with automobile dealers, the strength of new and used automobile sales, the loan rate and other incentives offered by other purchasers of indirect automobile loans or by the automobile manufacturers and their captive finance companies, and the continuing ability of the consumer to qualify for and make payments on high quality automobile loans. There can be no assurance the Bank will be successful in maintaining such dealer relationships or increasing the number of dealers with which the Bank does business, or that the existing dealer base will continue to generate a volume of finance contracts comparable to the volume historically generated by such dealers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in our lending markets.Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the specific local markets in which we operate. Unlike larger national or regional banks that are more geographically diversified, the Bank provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the State of Georgia. The local economic conditions have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. Adverse general economic conditions, caused by a significant economic slowdown, recession, inflation, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities, or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets, or other factors could impact local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.The earnings of financial services companies are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions.Our operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include recession, short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which we operate, all of which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and nonperforming assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for our products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may have a significant adverse effect on our operations.Recent events in the financial services industry and, more generally, in the financial markets and the economy, have led to various proposals for changes in the regulation of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act made a number of material changes in banking regulations. The full impact of these changes remains to be seen. However, Fidelity anticipates that its compliance costs will increase as a result of the various new regulations required under the Dodd-Frank Act. Changes arising from implementation of Dodd-Frank and any other new legislation may impact the profitability of our business activities, require we raise additional capital or change certain of our business practices, require us to divest certain business lines, materially affect our business model or affect retention of key personnel, and could expose us to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes, and could therefore also adversely affect our business and operations.Increases in FDIC premiums could have a material adverse effect on our future earnings.The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at an adequate level. During the prior economic recession, the FDIC increased its assessment rates and imposed special assessments. The FDIC may further increase these rates and impose additional special assessments in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on future earnings.There are substantial regulatory limitations on changes of control of bank holding companies.With certain limited exceptions, federal regulations prohibit a person or company or a group of persons deemed to be “acting in concert” from, directly or indirectly, acquiring more than 10% (5% if the acquirer is a bank holding company) of any class of our voting stock or obtaining the ability to control in any manner the election of a majority of our directors or otherwise direct the management or policies of our company without prior notice or application to and the approval of the Federal Reserve. Accordingly, prospective investors need to be aware of and comply with these requirements, if applicable, in connection with any purchase of shares of our common stock.Future dividend payments on common stock and common stock repurchases are restricted by the terms of the Preferred Shares.Under the terms of the Preferred Shares, as long as the Preferred Shares are outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including our common stock, are prohibited until and unless all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on the Preferred Shares, subject to certain limited exceptions.16Table of ContentsLiquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations.Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Our liquidity could be substantially affected in a negative fashion by an inability to raise funding in the debt capital markets or the equity capital markets or an inability to access the secured lending markets. Factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, could impair our ability to raise funding. In addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our financial prospects. Such negative perceptions could be developed if we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity or regulatory authorities take significant action against us, among other reasons. If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets to meet maturing liabilities. We may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets.Like other financial institutions, our earnings and cash flows are subject to interest rate risk. A significant source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., prime versus competitive market deposit rates) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. Also, the volume of nonperforming assets will negatively impact average yields if and as it increases. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. As a result of the sustained low interest rate environment, an increasing percentage of our deposits are comprised of short-term CD's and other deposits yielding no or very low rates of interest. Changes in levels of market interest rates, including the current rate environment, could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. Income could also be adversely affected if the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase quicker than the interest rates received on loans and other investments during periods of rising interest rates.We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and the mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially harmed.Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate construction, commercial and residential real estate loans, the value of our assets, and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings.We operate in a highly competitive industry and market area.We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the markets in which we operate. Additionally, various out-of-state banks continue to enter the market area in which we currently operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, and other financial intermediaries. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services, as well as better pricing for those products and services. A weakening in our competitive position, could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports, and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.We are subject to extensive governmental regulation.We are subject to extensive supervision and regulation by Federal and state governmental agencies, including the FRB, the GDBF and the FDIC. Current and future legislation, regulations, and government policy could adversely affect the Company and the financial institution industry as a whole, including the cost of doing business. Although the impact of such legislation, regulations, and policies cannot be predicted, future changes may alter the structure of, and competitive relationships among, financial institutions and the cost of doing business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.17Table of ContentsOur growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed.We are required by Federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate our capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our growth. If we raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities, it would dilute the ownership interest of our current shareholders and may dilute the per share book value of our common stock. New investors may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders, which may adversely impact our current shareholders.Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure that we will have the ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth or acquisitions could be materially impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We may become subject to more stringent capital requirements.Federal banking regulators have jointly proposed and requested comment on proposed rules that, taken together, would establish an integrated regulatory capital framework that would generally implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms in the United States. As proposed, the U.S. implementation of Basel III would generally lead to higher capital requirements and more restrictive leverage and liquidity ratios than those currently in place. If adopted in their proposed form, these new capital requirements would generally be phased in from 2013 to 2019. Additionally, the proposed rules contemplate that, for banking organizations with less than $15 billion in assets, such as us, the ability to treat trust preferred securities as Tier 1 capital would be phased out over a ten-year period. Compliance with these rules could impact our capital plans, affect returns on capital, and impose additional costs on us. The potential impact of the proposed new rules on us is being reviewed. There is no assurance that the Basel III-related proposals will be adopted in their current form, what changes may be made prior to adoption, or when the final rules would be effective.The building of market share through our branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues.We intend to continue to build market share through our branching strategy. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally require a period of time to generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence.Accordingly, any new branch can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branch reaches certain economies of scale. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in the opening of new branches. Finally, we have no assurance that new branches will be successful, even after they have been established.Potential acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value.From time to time, we evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions. There is no assurance that any acquisitions will occur in the future. However, if we do acquire other banks, businesses, or branches, such acquisitions would involve various risks, including the following:•potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company;•exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company;•difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company;•potential disruption to our business;•potential diversion of management's time and attention;•the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company;•difficulty in estimating the value of the target company; and•potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company.If we were to pay for acquisitions with shares of our common stock, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur since acquisitions may involve the payment of a premium over book and market values. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected benefits of an acquisition, such as anticipated revenue increases, cost savings, or increased geographic or product presence, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We are subject to risks related to FDIC-assisted transactions.The ultimate success of our past FDIC-assisted transactions, and any FDIC-assisted transactions in which we may participate in the future, will depend on a number of factors, including our ability:•to fully integrate the branches acquired into the Bank's operations;•to limit the outflow of deposits held by our new customers in the acquired branches and to retain and manage interest-earning assets acquired in FDIC-assisted transactions;18Table of Contents•to generate new interest-earning assets in the geographic areas previously served by the acquired banks;•to effectively compete in new markets in which we did not previously have a presence;•to control the incremental noninterest expense from the acquired branches in a manner that enables us to maintain a favorable overall efficiency ratio;•to retain and attract the appropriate personnel to staff the acquired branches;•to earn acceptable levels of interest and noninterest income, including fee income, from the acquired branches; and•to reasonably estimate cash flows for acquired loans to mitigate exposure greater than estimated losses at the time of acquisition.As with any acquisition involving a financial institution, including FDIC-assisted transactions, there may be higher than average levels of service disruptions that would cause inconveniences to our new customers or potentially increase the effectiveness of competing financial institutions in attracting our customers. Integration efforts will also likely divert management's attention and resources. We may be unable to integrate acquired branches successfully, and the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the FDIC-assisted transactions. We may also encounter unexpected difficulties or costs during the integration that could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Additionally, we may be unable to achieve results in the future similar to those achieved by our existing banking business, to compete effectively in the market areas previously served by the acquired branches or to manage effectively any growth resulting from FDIC-assisted transactions.Our ability to continue to receive the benefits of our loss share arrangements with the FDIC is conditioned upon our compliance with certain requirements under the agreements.We are the beneficiary of a loss share agreement with the FDIC that calls for the FDIC to fund a portion of our losses on loss share assets we acquired in connection with our FDIC-assisted transactions. To recover a portion of our losses and retain the loss share protection, we must comply with certain requirements imposed by the agreement. The requirements of the agreement relate primarily to our administration of the assets covered by the agreement, as well as our obtaining the consent of the FDIC to engage in certain corporate transactions that may be deemed under the agreements to constitute a transfer of the loss share benefits. When the consent of the FDIC is required under the loss share agreement, the FDIC may withhold its consent or may condition its consent on terms that we do not find acceptable. If the FDIC does not grant its consent to a transaction we would like to pursue, or conditions its consent on terms that we do not find acceptable, we may be unable to engage in a corporate transaction that might otherwise benefit our shareholders or we may elect to pursue such a transaction without obtaining the FDIC's consent, which could result in termination of our loss share agreement with the FDIC.Changes in national and local economic conditions could lead to higher loan charge-offs in connection with assets acquired in our past FDIC-assisted transactions and the loss sharing agreement with the FDIC may not cover all of those charge-offs.In connection with the acquisitions of assets in our past FDIC-assisted transactions, we acquired portfolios of loans. Although we have marked down the loan portfolios we acquired, the non-impaired loans we acquired may become impaired or may further deteriorate in value, resulting in additional charge-offs to our loan portfolio. The fluctuations in national, regional and local economic conditions, including those related to local residential, commercial real estate and construction markets, may increase the level of charge-offs that we make to our loan portfolio and consequently reduce our capital. The fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur.Our loss sharing arrangements with the FDIC will not cover all of our losses on loans we acquired.Although we have entered into a loss share agreement with the FDIC that provides that the FDIC will bear a significant portion of losses related to specified loan portfolios that we acquired, we are not protected for all losses resulting from charge-offs with respect to those specified loan portfolios. Additionally, the loss sharing agreements have limited terms. Therefore, the FDIC will not reimburse us for any charge-off or related losses that we experience after the term of the loss share agreement, and any such charge-offs would negatively impact our net income. Moreover, the loss share provisions in the loss share agreement may be administered improperly, or the FDIC may interpret those provisions in a way different that we do. In any of those events, our losses could increase.Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.19Table of ContentsWe may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities that we engage in can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.Our information systems we use to operate our business may experience an interruption or breach in security.We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our online banking and other customer electronic information systems may experience a security breach, computer virus or disruption of service.We provide our customers the ability to bank online. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is a critical element of online banking. While we use qualified third party vendors to test and audit our network, our network could become vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security problems. The Bank may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us or the Bank to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in the Bank's systems and could adversely affect its reputation and its ability to generate deposits. Any failures, interruptions or security breaches could result in damage to our reputation, a loss of customer business, increased regulatory scrutiny, or possible exposure to financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our business is technology dependent, and an inability to invest in technological improvements may adversely affect our earnings and financial condition.The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services, which may require substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services. In addition to better customer service, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and results in reduced costs. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in operations. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We cannot make assurances that technological improvements will increase operational efficiency or that it will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so on our part could have a material adverse impact on our business and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations.We are subject to claims and litigation.From time to time, customers and others make claims and take legal action pertaining to the Company's performance of our responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the Company's performance of our responsibilities are founded or unfounded, or if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Company, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Company and our products and services, as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact business and revenues.The risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative public opinion regarding the reputation of the Company, our competitors, and the financial institutions industry in general, is inherent in our business. In addition, negative public opinion of third parties with whom we have important relationships may adversely impact our reputation. Negative public opinion may result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of a product or service to meet the clients' expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Actual or alleged conduct by one of the business lines may result in negative public opinion about the other business lines. Negative public opinion may adversely affect our ability to keep and attract clients and employees and may expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Although we take steps 20Table of Contentsto minimize reputation risk in dealing with our clients and communities, this risk will always be present given the nature of our business.Risks Related to our Common StockOur stock price can be volatile.Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for shareholders to resell common stock when they want and at prices they find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things:•news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry;•actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations;•recommendations by securities analysts;•operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;•perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or our competitors;•significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Company or our competitors;•changes in government laws and regulation; and•geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts.General market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease, regardless of operating results.Our common stock trading volume is less than that of other larger financial services companies.Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the trading volume in our common stock is less than that of larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity, and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall.The exercise of the Warrant by the Treasury would dilute existing shareholders' ownership interest and may make it more difficult for us to take certain actions that may be in the best interest of shareholders.On December 19, 2008, we granted to the Treasury the Warrant to purchase 2,266,458 shares of common stock at a price of $3.19 per share at the time the Preferred Shares were initially issued. While the Treasury auctioned the Preferred Shares in 2012, it did not sell the Warrant, and continues to hold the Warrant. If the Treasury exercises the entire Warrant, it would result in a significant dilution to the ownership interest of our existing shareholders. Further, if the Treasury exercises the entire Warrant, it will become the second largest shareholder of Fidelity. The Treasury has agreed that it will not exercise voting power with regard to the shares that it acquires by exercising the Warrant. However, Treasury's abstention from voting may make it more difficult for us to obtain shareholder approval for those matters that require a majority of total shares outstanding, such as a business combination involving Fidelity.Provisions in our Bylaws and our Tax Benefits Preservation Plan may make it more difficult for another party to obtain control.Our bylaws electing for the provisions of Article 11A of the Georgia Business Corporation Code (the “Business Combination Statute”) to apply to the Company. The Company has also adopted a Tax Benefits Preservation Plan. Our bylaws and Tax Benefits Preservation Plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or could have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be at a price attractive to some of our shareholders.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone