Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider these risk factors before you decide to purchase or sell shares of our common stock. These factors could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward-looking statements made by us. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 21 We are dependent upon Burberry for a significant portion of our sales, and Burberry has the right to purchase the unexpired term of its license from us. The loss of this license will have a material adverse effect on us. Burberry is our most significant license, as sales of Burberry products represented 50%, 53% and 57% of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our Paris-based subsidiary, Interparfums SA, has been the worldwide, exclusive licensee for Burberry fragrances since our initial license agreement in 1993. Such license agreement was superseded by our subsequent license agreement dated October 12, 2004. In December 2011, Interparfums SA and Burberry Group commenced discussions regarding the establishment of a new operating structure for the Burberry fragrance and beauty business. As of the date of this report, those discussions are continuing. We cannot assure you that any agreement will be reached, or if we reach an agreement, that it will be on terms favorable to us. As there can be no assurance that an agreement will be reached, Burberry has exercised its right to evaluate the purchase price for the unexpired term of the existing license. In this process, Burberry has until July 31, 2012 to determine whether it wishes to buy out the unexpired portion of the license as of December 31, 2012, or continue the existing contract which runs through December 31, 2017. As previously disclosed, if Burberry were to buy back the license, then the purchase price will be the greater of the fair market value of the unexpired term of the license or 70% of 2010 net wholesale sales of Burberry product. This license is subject to Interparfums SA making required royalty payments (which are subject to certain minimums), minimum advertising and promotional expenditures and meeting minimum sales requirements. This license agreement provides for termination on a change in control of either, Interparfums SA, the licensee, or Inter Parfums, Inc., the guarantor. The loss of this license will have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Further, as the market price of our stock is related to current and estimated future operating results, the loss of this license would most likely cause a significant decline in the market price of our common stock. 22 We are dependent upon the continuation and renewal of various licenses and other agreements for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of one or more licenses or agreements could have a material adverse effect on us. All of our rights relating to prestige fragrance brands, other than Lanvin, as well as all of our specialty retail brands, are derived from licenses or other agreements from unaffiliated third parties and our business is dependent upon the continuation and renewal of such licenses and other agreements on terms favorable to us. Each license or agreement is for a specific term and may have additional optional terms. In addition, each license is subject to us making required royalty payments (which are subject to certain minimums), minimum advertising and promotional expenditures and meeting minimum sales requirements. Other agreements are generally subject to meeting minimum sales requirements. Just as the loss of a license or other significant agreement may have a material adverse effect on us, a renewal on less favorable terms may also negatively impact us. Our business could be adversely affected by a prolonged downturn or recession in the United States, Europe or other countries in which we conduct business. A prolonged economic downturn or recession in the United States, Europe or any of the other countries in which we do significant business could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, such a downturn or recession could adversely impact (i) the level of spending by our ultimate consumers, (ii) our ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis from certain customers, (iii) our ability of certain suppliers to fill our orders for raw materials, packaging or co-packed finished goods on a timely basis, and (iv) the mix of our product sales. Consumers may reduce discretionary purchases of our products as a result of a general economic downturn. We believe that the high degree of global economic uncertainty could have a negative effect on consumer confidence, demand and spending. In addition, we believe that consumer spending on beauty products is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. Accordingly, we may experience sustained periods of declines in sales during periods of economic downturn as it may affect customers’ purchasing patterns. In addition, a general economic downturn may result in reduced traffic in our customers’ stores which may, in turn, result in reduced net sales to our customers. Any resulting material reduction in our sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Uncertainties and continued deterioration in global credit markets, as evidenced by reductions in sovereign credit ratings in the United States and Europe, could negatively impact suppliers, customers and consumers, which could have an adverse impact on our business as a whole. Uncertainties and continued deterioration in the global credit markets as evidenced by reductions in sovereign credit ratings in the United States and Europe, could negatively impact our suppliers, customers and consumers which, in turn, could have an adverse impact on our business. While, thus far, uncertainties in global credit markets have not significantly affected our access to credit due to our strong credit rating, a further deterioration in global financial markets could make future financing difficult or more expensive. Such lack of credit or lack of credit on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 23 If our intangible assets, such as trademarks and goodwill, become impaired we may be required to record a significant non-cash charge to earnings which would negatively impact our results of operations. Under United States generally accepted accounting principles, we review our intangible assets, including our trademarks licenses and goodwill, for impairment annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be fully recoverable. The carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable due to factors such as reduced estimates of future cash flows, including those associated with the specific brands to which intangibles relate, or slower growth rates in our industry. Estimates of future cash flows are based on a long-term financial outlook of our operations and the specific brands to which the intangible assets relate. However, actual performance in the near-term or long-term could be materially different from these forecasts, which could impact future estimates and the recorded value of the intangibles. Any significant impairment to our intangible assets would result in a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which the impairment is determined to exist. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, specifically trademarks and brand names, our ability to compete could be negatively impacted. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the value associated with trademarks and brand names that we license, use or own. We own, or have licenses or other rights to use, the material trademark and brand name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and distribution of our major products both in the United States and in other countries where such products are principally sold. Therefore, trademark and brand name protection is important to our business. Although most of the brand names we license, use or own are registered in the United States and in certain foreign countries in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or brand name protection. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The costs required to protect our trademarks and brand names may be substantial. The success of our products is dependent on public taste. Our revenues are substantially dependent on the success of our products, which depends upon, among other matters, pronounced and rapidly changing public tastes, factors which are difficult to predict and over which we have little, if any, control. In addition, we have to develop successful marketing, promotional and sales programs in order to sell our fragrances and fragrance related products. If we are not able to develop successful marketing, promotional and sales programs, then such failure will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 24 We are subject to extreme competition in the fragrance industry. The market for fragrances and fragrance related products is highly competitive and sensitive to changing market preferences and demands. Many of our competitors in this market are larger than we are and have greater financial resources than are available to us, potentially allowing them greater operational flexibility. Our success in the prestige fragrance industry is dependent upon our ability to continue to generate original strategies and develop quality products that are in accord with ongoing changes in the market. In the specialty retail market in the U.S. we primarily sell products or plan to sell products directly to select specialty retailers such as Gap and Banana Republic, New York & Company, Brooks Brothers, bebe, Nine West, Betsey Johnson and Lane Bryant, so we do not have any direct competition, other than third parties who may also have the knowhow and capacity to develop, manufacture and ship product to specialty retailers. However, such special retail stores compete directly with other specialty retail stores such as Abercrombie & Fitch, American Eagle and Victoria’s Secret, which thereby indirectly compete with us. Our success with mass market fragrance and fragrance related products is dependent upon our ability to competitively price quality products and to quickly and efficiently develop and distribute new products. If there is insufficient demand for our existing fragrances and fragrance related products, or if we do not develop future strategies and products that withstand competition or we are unsuccessful in competing on price terms, then we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are dependent upon specialty retailers to sell products that we develop for their retail stores. We have agreements in place for specialty retail brands, Gap and Banana Republic, New York & Company, Brooks Brothers, bebe, Nine West, Betsey Johnson and Lane Bryant. We are responsible for product development, formula creation, packaging and manufacturing under all of those brands. We also develop and supply fragrances for Anthropologie stores, catalog and its internet business on an as needed and when ordered basis. These specialty retailers are responsible for marketing and selling fragrance and fragrance related products we produced in their respective stores in North America. If the sales and marketing efforts of those specialty retailers are not successful for the products that we have developed, then such unsuccessful sales and marketing efforts could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we are unable to acquire or license additional brands, or obtain the required financing for these agreements and arrangements, then the growth of our business could be impaired. Our future expansion through acquisitions or new product license or distribution arrangements, if any, will depend upon the capital resources and working capital available to us. Further, in view of the global banking crisis, we may be unable to obtain financing or credit that we may require for additional licenses, acquisitions or other transactions. We may be unsuccessful in identifying, negotiating, financing and consummating such acquisitions or arrangements on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could hinder our ability to increase revenues and build our business. 25 We may engage in future acquisitions that we may not be able to successfully integrate or manage. These acquisitions may dilute our stockholders and cause us to incur debt and assume contingent liabilities. We continuously review acquisition prospects that would complement our current product offerings, increase our size and geographic scope of operations or otherwise offer growth and operating efficiency opportunities. The financing, if available, for any of these acquisitions could significantly dilute our stockholders and/or result in an increase in our indebtedness. We may acquire or make investments in businesses or products in the future, and such acquisitions may entail numerous integration risks and impose costs on us, including: ·difficulties in assimilating acquired operations or products, including the loss of key employees from acquired businesses; ·diversion of management’s attention from our core business; ·adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; ·risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; ·dilutive issuances of equity securities; ·incurrence of substantial debt; ·assumption of contingent liabilities; ·incurrence of significant amortization expenses related to intangible assets and the potential impairment of acquired assets; and ·incurrence of significant immediate write-offs. Our failure to successfully complete the integration of any acquired business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are dependent upon Messrs. Jean Madar and Philippe Benacin, and the loss of their services could harm our business. Jean Madar, our Chief Executive Officer, and Philippe Benacin, our President and Chief Executive Officer of Interparfums SA, are responsible for day-to-day operations as well as major decisions. Termination of their relationships with us, whether through death, incapacity or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our operations, and we cannot assure you that qualified replacements can be found. We maintain key man insurance on the life of Mr. Benacin ($20.0 million). However, we cannot assure you that we would be able to retain suitable replacements for either Mr. Madar or Mr. Benacin. Our reliance on third party manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on us. We rely on outside sources to manufacture our fragrances and cosmetics. The failure of such third party manufacturers to deliver either components or finished goods on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we believe there are alternate manufacturers available to supply our requirements, we cannot assure you that current or alternative sources will be able to supply all of our demands on a timely basis. We do not intend to develop our own manufacturing capacity. As these are third parties over whom we have little or no control, the failure of such third parties to provide components or finished goods on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 26 Our reliance on third party distributors could have a material adverse effect on us. We sell a substantial percentage of our prestige fragrances through independent distributors specializing in luxury goods. Given the growing importance of distribution, we have modified our distribution model by owning a controlling interest in certain of our distributors within key markets. However, we have little or no control over third party distributors and the failure of such third parties to provide services on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, if we replace existing third party distributors with new third party distributors or with our own distribution arrangements, then transition issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The loss of or disruption in our distribution facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We currently have one distribution facility in Paris and one in New Jersey. The loss of one or both of those facilities, as well as the inventory stored in those facilities, would require us to find replacement facilities and assets. In addition, terrorist attacks, weather conditions, or natural disasters, could disrupt our distribution operations. If we cannot replace our distribution capacity and inventory in a timely, cost-efficient manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Changes in laws, regulations and policies that affect our business could adversely affect our financial results. Our business is subject to numerous laws, regulations and policies. Changes in the laws, regulations and policies, including the interpretation or enforcement thereof, that affect, or will affect, our business, including changes in accounting standards, tax laws and regulations, environmental or climate change laws, regulations or accords, trade rules and customs regulations, and the outcome and expense of legal or regulatory proceedings, and any action we may take as a result could adversely affect our financial results. Our success depends, in part, on the quality and safety of our products. Our success depends, in part, on the quality and safety of our products. If our products are found to be defective or unsafe, or if they otherwise fail to meet our consumers’ standards, our relationships with customers or consumers could suffer, the appeal of one or more of our brands could be diminished, and we could lose sales and/or become subject to liability claims, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 27 The international character of our business renders us subject to fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates and international trade tariffs, barriers and other restrictions. A substantial portion of our European operations’ net sales (approximately 40% in 2011) are sold in U.S. dollars. In an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange fluctuations, we engage in a controlled program of risk management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. Despite such actions, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates for the U.S. dollar, particularly with respect to the euro, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Possible import, export, tariff and other trade barriers, which could be imposed by the United States, other countries or the European Union might also have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our business is subject to governmental regulation, which could impact our operations. Fragrances and fragrance related products must comply with the labeling requirements of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act as well as the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act and their regulations. Some of our color cosmetic products may also be classified as a “drug”. Additional regulatory requirements for products which are “drugs” include additional labeling requirements, registration of the manufacturer and the semi-annual update of a drug list. Our fragrances are subject to the approval of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms as a result of the use of specially denatured alcohol. So far we have not experienced any difficulties in obtaining the required approvals. Our fragrances and fragrance related products that are manufactured in France are subject to certain regulatory requirements of the European Union, but as of the date of this report, we have not experienced any material difficulties in complying with such requirements. However, we cannot assure you that, should we develop or market fragrances and fragrance related products with different ingredients, or should existing regulations or requirements be revised, we would not in the future experience difficulty in complying with such requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our information systems and websites may be susceptible to outages and other risks. We have information systems that support our business processes, including product development, marketing, sales, order processing, production, distribution, finance and intra-company communications. We have Internet websites in the United States and Europe. These systems may be susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. Despite the implementation of network security measures, our systems may be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. The occurrence of these or other events could disrupt or damage our information systems and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 28 The trading prices of our securities periodically may rise or fall based on the accuracy of predictions of our earnings or other financial performance. Our business planning process is designed to maximize our long-term strength, growth and profitability, not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. We believe that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of our Company and our stockholders. At the same time, however, we recognize that it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to our forecast of net sales and earnings per share. Accordingly, we provided guidance as to our expected net sales and earnings per share for the year ending December 31, 2012. While we generally expect to provide updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter, we assume no responsibility to update any of our forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise. In addition, the longer-term guidance we provide is based on goals that we believe, at the time guidance is given, are reasonably attainable for growth and performance over a number of years. Such targets are more difficult to predict than our current quarter and fiscal year expectations. In all of our public statements when we make, or update, a forward-looking statement about our sales and/or earnings expectations or expectations regarding other initiatives, we accompany such statements directly, or by reference to a public document, with a list of factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those we expect. Such a list is included, among other places, in our earnings press release and in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (e.g., in our reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q). These and other factors may make it difficult for outside observers, such as research analysts, to predict what our earnings will be in any given fiscal quarter or year. Outside analysts and investors have the right to make their own predictions of our financial results for any future period. Outside analysts, however, have access to no more material information about our results or plans than any other public investor, and we do not endorse their predictions as to our future performance. Nor do we assume any responsibility to correct the predictions of outside analysts or others when they differ from our own internal expectations. If and when we announce actual results that differ from those that outside analysts or others have been predicting, the market price of our securities could be affected. Investors who rely on the predictions of outside analysts or others when making investment decisions with respect to our securities do so at their own risk. We take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in the prices of our securities. We may become subject to possible liability for improper comparative advertising or “Trade Dress”. Brand name manufacturers and sellers of brand name products may make claims of improper comparative advertising or trade dress (packaging) with respect to the likelihood of confusion between some of our mass market products and those of brand name manufacturers and sellers. They may seek damages for loss of business or injunctive relief to seek to have the use of the improper comparative advertising or trade dress halted. However, we believe that our displays and packaging constitute fair competitive advertising and are not likely to cause confusion between our products and others. Further, we have not experienced to any material degree, any of such problems to date. 29 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 30 