Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely impact our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to our Business A significant portion of the Bank’s loan portfolio is secured by real estate loans in the Atlanta, Georgia, metropolitan area and in eastern and northern Florida markets, and a continued downturn in real estate market values in those areas may adversely affect our business. Currently, our lending and other businesses are concentrated in the Atlanta, Georgia, metropolitan area and eastern and northern Florida. As of December 31, 2007, real estate mortgage, construction and commercial real estate loans, accounted for 40.6% of our total loan portfolio. Therefore, conditions in these markets will strongly affect the level of our nonperforming loans and our results of operations and financial condition. Real estate values and the demand for commercial and residential mortgages and construction loans are affected by, among other things, changes in general and local economic conditions, changes in governmental regulation, monetary and fiscal policies, interest rates and weather. The residential real estate markets in Atlanta and Jacksonville continue to experience a slowdown in sales and continued pricing declines. Continued declines in our real estate markets could adversely affect the demand for new real estate loans, and the value and liquidity of the collateral securing our existing loans. Adverse changes in our markets could also reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans, and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, our earnings and cash flows are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., prime versus competitive market deposit rates) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. Also, the volume of nonperforming assets will negatively impact average yields if and as it increases. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates, including the current declining rate environment, could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. From June 2004 through June 2006, the Federal Reserve increased its target for the Federal funds rate 17 times, from 1.00% to 5.25%. This targeted Federal funds rate remained constant until September 2007 when the Federal Reserve began lowering the target, reducing the Federal funds rate to 4.25% by the end of 2007. While these short-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our deposits) increased during most of this period, longer-term market interest rates have not. The average difference between the 10 year constant maturity treasury note and the targeted Federal funds rate decreased from 1.04% to negative .23% to negative .37% for the years 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. This “flattening” of the market yield curve and heavy competition for deposit accounts had a negative impact on our interest rate spread and net interest margin during 2007. If short-term interest rates continue to decline, and if rates on many of our deposits and borrowings continue to reprice downward slower than the rates on many of our loans, we would experience further compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative impact on our profitability. Income could also be adversely affected if the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase quicker than the interest rates received on loans and other investments during periods of rising interest rates. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and the mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially harmed. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate construction, commercial and residential real estate loans, the value of our assets, and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. Construction and land development loans are subject to unique risks that could adversely affect earnings. Our construction and land development loan portfolio was $286 million at December 31, 2007, comprising 19.7% of total loans. Construction and land development loans are often riskier than home equity loans or residential mortgage loans to individuals. During general economic slowdowns, like the one we are currently experiencing, these loans represent higher risk due to slower sales and reduced cash flow that could impact the borrowers’ ability to repay on a timely basis. In addition, regulations and regulatory policies affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change and we cannot predict when changes will occur or the ultimate effect of any changes. Since the latter part of 2006, there has been continued regulatory focus on construction, development and commercial real estate lending. Changes in the federal policies applicable to construction, development or commercial real estate loans make us subject to substantial limitations with respect to making such loans, increase the costs of making such loans, and require us to have a 15 Table of Contents greater amount of capital to support this kind of lending, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition. The allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. The Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is established and maintained through provisions charged to operations. Such provisions are based on management’s evaluation of the loan portfolio, including loan portfolio concentrations, current economic conditions, the economic outlook, past loan loss experience, adequacy of underlying collateral, and such other factors which, in management’s judgment, deserve consideration in estimating loan losses. Loans are charged off when, in the opinion of management, such loans are deemed to be uncollectible. Subsequent recoveries are added to the allowance. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates of current credit risks and trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Bank’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the estimated charge-offs utilized in determining the sufficiency of the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, regulatory capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Allowance for Loan Losses” in Item 7 — “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to our process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. We operate in a highly competitive industry and market area. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the markets in which we operate. Additionally, various out-of-state banks continue to enter the market area in which we currently operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms, and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services, as well as better pricing for those products and services. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: • the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; • the ability to expand our market position; 16 Table of Contents • the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; • the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors; • customer satisfaction with our level of service; and • industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in the Atlanta metropolitan area. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the Atlanta metropolitan area and the specific local markets in which we operate. Unlike larger national or regional banks that are more geographically diversified, the Bank provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the Atlanta metropolitan areas including Fulton, Dekalb, Cobb, Clayton, Gwinnett, Rockdale, Coweta and Barrow counties. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by a significant economic slowdown, recession, inflation, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities, or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets, or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Bank may be unable to maintain and service relationships with automobile dealers and the Bank is subject to their willingness and ability to provide high quality indirect automobile loans. The Bank’s indirect automobile lending operation depends in large part upon the ability to maintain and service relationships with automobile dealers, the strength of new and used automobile sales, the loan rate and other incentives offered by other purchasers of indirect automobile loans or by the automobile manufacturers and their captive finance companies, and the continuing ability of the consumer to qualify for and make payments on high quality automobile loans. There can be no assurance the Bank will be successful in maintaining such dealer relationships or increasing the number of dealers with which the Bank does business, or that the existing dealer base will continue to generate a volume of finance contracts comparable to the volume historically generated by such dealers. We are subject to consumer and debtor protection laws. We are subject to numerous Federal and state consumer protection laws that impose requirements related to offering and extending credit. Federal and state governmental authorities may enact new laws and amend existing laws to regulate further the consumer credit industry or to reduce finance charges or other fees or charges that can be applicable to consumer loan accounts. Such laws, as well as any new regulations or rulings that may be adopted, may adversely affect our ability to collect on account balances or maintain existing levels of fees and charges with respect to the accounts. Any failure by us to comply with such legal requirements also could adversely affect our ability to collect the full amount of the account balances. Changes in Federal and state bankruptcy and debtor relief laws could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition if such changes result in, among other things, additional administrative expenses and accounts being written off as uncollectible. 17 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive governmental regulation. As discussed previously, we are subject to extensive supervision and regulation by Federal and state governmental agencies, including the FRB, the GDBF and the FDIC. Future legislation, regulations, and government policy could adversely affect the Company and the financial institution industry as a whole, including the cost of doing business. Although the impact of such legislation, regulations, and policies cannot be predicted, future changes may alter the structure of, and competitive relationships among, financial institutions and the cost of doing business. Our growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by Federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate our capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our growth. If we raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities, it would dilute the ownership interest of our current shareholders and may dilute the per share book value of our common stock. New investors may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders, which may adversely impact our current shareholders. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure that we will have the ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth or acquisitions could be materially impaired. The building of market share through our branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues. We intend to continue to build market share in the greater Atlanta metropolitan area through our branching strategy. While we have no commitments to branch during 2008, there are branch locations under consideration and others may become available. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally require a period of time to generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any new branch can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branch reaches certain economies of scale. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in the opening of new branches. Finally, we have no assurance that new branches will be successful, even after they have been established. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities that we engage in can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to claims and litigation. From time to time, customers and others make claims and take legal action pertaining to the Company’s performance of our responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the Company’s performance of our responsibilities are founded or unfounded, or if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Company, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Company and our products and services, as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our stock price can be volatile. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for shareholders to resell common stock when they want and at prices they find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: • news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; • recommendations by securities analysts; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or our competitors; • new technology used, or services offered, by competitors; • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Company or our competitors; • failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; • changes in government laws and regulation; and • geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. 19 Table of Contents General market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease, regardless of operating results. Our common stock trading volume is less than that of other larger financial services companies. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the trading volume in our common stock is less than that of larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity, and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund, or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this Report. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment. Risks Associated with our Industry The earnings of financial services companies are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions. Our operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include recession, short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which we operate, all of which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for our products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports, and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 