Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely impact our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Business A significant portion of the Bank’s loan portfolio is secured by real estate loans in the Atlanta, Georgia, metropolitan area and in eastern and northern Florida markets, and a continued downturn in real estate market values in those areas may adversely affect our business. Currently, our lending and other businesses are concentrated in the Atlanta, Georgia, metropolitan area and eastern and northern Florida. As of December 31, 2009, real estate mortgage, construction and commercial real estate loans, accounted for 47.4% of our total loan portfolio. Therefore, conditions in these markets will strongly affect the level of our nonperforming loans and our results of operations and financial condition. Real estate values and the demand for commercial and residential mortgages and construction loans are affected by, among other things, changes in general and local economic conditions, changes in governmental regulation, monetary and fiscal policies, interest rates and weather. The residential real estate markets in Atlanta and Jacksonville continue to experience a slowdown in sales and continued pricing declines. Continued declines in our real estate markets could adversely affect the demand for new real estate loans, and the value and liquidity of the collateral securing our existing loans. Adverse changes in our markets could also reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans, and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. The earnings of financial services companies are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions. Our operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include recession, short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which we operate, all of which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for our products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally and there can be no assurance that recent efforts to address difficult market and economic conditions will be effective. Since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008, the financial markets and economic conditions generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all commercial and residential mortgages as property prices declined rapidly and to nearly all asset classes. The effect of the market and economic downturn also spread to other areas of the credit markets and in the availability of liquidity. The magnitude of these declines led to a crisis of confidence in the financial sector as a result of concerns about the capital base and viability of certain financial institutions. During this period, interbank lending and commercial paper borrowing fell sharply, precipitating a credit freeze for both institutional and individual borrowers. Unemployment has also increased significantly. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 were signed into law in response to the financial crisis affecting the banking system, financial markets and economic conditions generally. Pursuant to the EESA, the Treasury had the authority under the Troubled Asset Relief Program to purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. The Treasury announced the Capital Purchase Program under TARP pursuant to which it has purchased senior preferred stock in participating financial institutions. This includes a wide variety of programs intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health, and education needs. In addition, ARRA imposes certain new executive compensation and corporate expenditure limits on all current and future TARP recipients until the institution has repaid the Treasury, which is now permitted under ARRA without penalty and without the need to raise new capital, subject to the Treasury’s consultation with the recipient’s appropriate regulatory agency. The EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the U.S. Congress, the Federal Reserve Board, the Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current crisis, including most recently the ARRA. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that EESA, including TARP and the Program, the ARRA and the other initiatives describe above will have on the banking system and financial markets or on us. The failure of these programs to help stabilize the banking system and financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. 14 Table of Contents Liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations. Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Our liquidity could be substantially affected in a negative fashion by an inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity capital markets or an inability to access the secured lending markets. Factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, could impair our ability to raise funding. In addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. Such negative perceptions could be developed if we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity or regulatory authorities take significant action against us, among other reasons. If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets to meet maturing liabilities. We may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Future dividend payments and common stock repurchases are restricted by the terms of the Treasury’s equity investment in us. Under the terms of the Program, until the earlier of the third anniversary of the date of issuance of the Preferred Shares and the date on which the Preferred Shares have been redeemed in whole or the Treasury has transferred all of the Preferred Shares to third parties, we are prohibited from increasing dividends on our common stock from the last quarterly cash dividend per share ($0.01) declared on the common stock prior to December 19, 2008, as adjusted for subsequent stock dividends and other similar actions, and from making certain repurchases of equity securities, including our common stock, without the Treasury’s consent. Furthermore, as long as the Preferred Shares are outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including our common stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. The limitations on executive compensation imposed through our participation in the Capital Purchase Program may restrict our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees, which could adversely affect our operations. As part of our participation in the Program, we agreed to be bound by certain executive compensation restrictions, including limitations on severance payments and the clawback of any bonus and incentive compensation that were based on materially inaccurate financial statements or any other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria. Subsequent to the issuance of the preferred shares, the ARRA was enacted, which provides more stringent limitations on severance pay and the payment of bonuses. To the extent that any of these compensation restrictions do not permit us to provide a comprehensive compensation package to our key employees that is competitive in our market area, we may have difficulty in attracting, retaining and motivating our key employees, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The terms governing the issuance of the preferred shares to the Treasury may be changed, the effect of which may have an adverse effect on our operations. The terms of the Letter Agreement which we entered into with the Treasury provides that the Treasury may unilaterally amend any provision of the Letter Agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes in applicable federal law that may occur in the future. We have no assurances that changes in the terms of the transaction will not occur in the future. Such changes may place restrictions on our business or results of operations, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, our earnings and cash flows are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., prime versus competitive market deposit rates) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. Also, the volume of nonperforming assets will negatively impact average yields if and as it increases. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates, including the current rate environment, could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. In September 2007, the Federal Reserve began lowering the targeted Federal funds rate, reducing the rate to 4.25% by the end of 2007. In 2008, as the economic crisis deepened, the Federal Reserve continued to lower interest rates to a historic low of .25% where it remained for all of 2009. While these short-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our deposits) decreased, the yield on our earning assets decreased more quickly which in combination with heavy competition for deposit accounts had a negative impact on our interest rate spread and net interest margin during 2008 and into 2009. Income could also be adversely 15 Table of Contents affected if the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase quicker than the interest rates received on loans and other investments during periods of rising interest rates. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and the mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially harmed. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate construction, commercial and residential real estate loans, the value of our assets, and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. Construction and land development loans are subject to unique risks that could adversely affect earnings. Our construction and land development loan portfolio was $155 million at December 31, 2009, comprising 10.9% of total loans. Construction and land development loans are often riskier than home equity loans or residential mortgage loans to individuals. During general economic slowdowns, like the one we are currently experiencing, these loans represent higher risk due to slower sales and reduced cash flow that could impact the borrowers’ ability to repay on a timely basis. In addition, regulations and regulatory policies affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change and we cannot predict when changes will occur or the ultimate effect of any changes. Since the latter part of 2006, there has been continued regulatory focus on construction, development and commercial real estate lending. Changes in the federal policies applicable to construction, development or commercial real estate loans make us subject to substantial limitations with respect to making such loans, increase the costs of making such loans, and require us to have a greater amount of capital to support this kind of lending, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition. The allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. The Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is established and maintained through provisions charged to operations. Such provisions are based on management’s evaluation of the loan portfolio, including loan portfolio concentrations, current economic conditions, the economic outlook, past loan loss experience, adequacy of underlying collateral, and such other factors which, in management’s judgment, deserve consideration in estimating loan losses. Loans are charged off when, in the opinion of management, such loans are deemed to be uncollectible. Subsequent recoveries are added to the allowance. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates of current credit risks and trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Bank’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the estimated charge-offs utilized in determining the sufficiency of the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, regulatory capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Allowance for Loan Losses” in Item 7 — “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to our process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. We operate in a highly competitive industry and market area. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the markets in which we operate. Additionally, various out-of-state banks continue to enter the market area in which we currently operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, and other financial intermediaries. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services, as well as better pricing for those products and services. A weakening in our competitive position, could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in the Atlanta metropolitan area. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the Atlanta metropolitan area and the specific local markets in which we operate. Unlike larger national or regional banks that are more geographically diversified, the Bank provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the Atlanta metropolitan areas including Fulton, Dekalb, Cobb, Clayton, Gwinnett, Rockdale, Coweta and Barrow Counties. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the 16 Table of Contents demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by a significant economic slowdown, recession, inflation, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities, or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets, or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Bank may be unable to maintain and service relationships with automobile dealers and the Bank is subject to their willingness and ability to provide high quality indirect automobile loans. The Bank’s indirect automobile lending operation depends in large part upon the ability to maintain and service relationships with automobile dealers, the strength of new and used automobile sales, the loan rate and other incentives offered by other purchasers of indirect automobile loans or by the automobile manufacturers and their captive finance companies, and the continuing ability of the consumer to qualify for and make payments on high quality automobile loans. There can be no assurance the Bank will be successful in maintaining such dealer relationships or increasing the number of dealers with which the Bank does business, or that the existing dealer base will continue to generate a volume of finance contracts comparable to the volume historically generated by such dealers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports, and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation. We are subject to extensive supervision and regulation by Federal and state governmental agencies, including the FRB, the GDBF and the FDIC. Current and future legislation, regulations, and government policy could adversely affect the Company and the financial institution industry as a whole, including the cost of doing business. Although the impact of such legislation, regulations, and policies cannot be predicted, future changes may alter the structure of, and competitive relationships among, financial institutions and the cost of doing business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by Federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate our capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our growth. If we raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities, it would dilute the ownership interest of our current shareholders and may dilute the per share book value of our common stock. New investors may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders, which may adversely impact our current shareholders. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure that we will have the ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth or acquisitions could be materially impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The building of market share through our branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues. We intend to continue to build market share in the greater Atlanta metropolitan area through our branching strategy. While we have no commitments to branch during 2010, there are branch locations under consideration and others may become available. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally require a period of time to generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any new branch can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branch reaches certain economies of scale. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in the opening of new branches. Finally, we have no assurance that new branches will be successful, even after they have been established. 17 Table of Contents Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities that we engage in can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to claims and litigation. From time to time, customers and others make claims and take legal action pertaining to the Company’s performance of our responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the Company’s performance of our responsibilities are founded or unfounded, or if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Company, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Company and our products and services, as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our stock price can be volatile. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for shareholders to resell common stock when they want and at prices they find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: • news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; • recommendations by securities analysts; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or our competitors; • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Company or our competitors; • changes in government laws and regulation; and • geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. General market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease, regardless of operating results. Our common stock trading volume is less than that of other larger financial services companies. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the trading volume in our common stock is less than that of larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity, and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have 18 Table of Contents no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall. The exercise of the Warrant by the Treasury would dilute existing shareholders’ ownership interest and may make it more difficult for us to take certain actions that may be in the best interest of shareholders. In addition to the issuance of the Preferred Shares, we also granted to the Treasury the Warrant to purchase 2,266,458 shares of common stock at a price of $3.19 per share. If the Treasury exercises the entire Warrant, it would result in a significant dilution to the ownership interest of our existing shareholders and dilute the earnings per share value of our common stock. Further, if the Treasury exercises the entire Warrant, it will become the second largest shareholder of Fidelity. The Treasury has agreed that it will not exercise voting power with regard to the shares that it acquires by exercising the Warrant. However, Treasury’s abstention from voting may make it more difficult for us to obtain shareholder approval for those matters that require a majority of total shares outstanding, such as a business combination involving Fidelity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 