ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves certain risks, including those described below. You should consider carefully these risk factors together with all of the information included in this report before investing in our securities. The information below includes updated discussions with respect to changes which have occurred in our risk factors as a result of our acquisition on July 31, 2009 of Eveready Inc., or "Eveready," and the related significant expansion of our energy and industrial services business, our entry on July 31, 2009 into an amended $120.0 million revolving credit facility, or the "new revolving credit facility," and our issuance on August 14, 2009 of $300.0 million principal amount of 75/8% senior secured notes, or the "notes." Risks Affecting Both Our Environmental Services and Energy and Industrial Services Businesses Our businesses are subject to operational and insurance risks. Provision of both environmental services and energy and industrial services to our customers is subject to such risks as equipment defects, malfunctions and failures, and natural disasters. These risks expose us to potential liability for personal injury, loss of life, business interruption, property damage or destruction, pollution and other environmental damages. While we seek to minimize our exposure to such risks through comprehensive training programs, vehicle and equipment maintenance programs and insurance, such programs and insurance may not be adequate to cover all of our potential liabilities and such insurance may not in the future be available at commercially reasonable rates. If we were to incur substantial liabilities in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur such liabilities at a time when we were not able to obtain adequate liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected to a material extent. 18 Table of Contents Our businesses are subject to significant competition. We compete with a large number of companies, which range from large public companies to small operators, that provide most of the same or similar services to those we provide. The current downturn in economic conditions, particularly with respect to manufacturing and oil and gas production, has caused increased competition for market share, which could result in lower prices and reduced gross margins from the services we provide and negatively affect our ability to grow or sustain our current revenue and profit levels in the future. The provision of our services involves significant safety risks. Our employees often work under potentially hazardous conditions, and we must maintain a solid safety record in order to remain a preferred supplier to our major customers. In order to protect our employees and meet such customer demands, we have instituted an active safety program supported by continual practice and training. However, should our safety record deteriorate, we could be subject to potential liabilities and a reduction of revenues from our major customers. Our businesses are subject to statutory and regulatory requirements, which may increase in the future. Our businesses are subject to numerous statutory and regulatory requirements, and our ability to continue to hold licenses and permits required for our businesses is subject to maintaining satisfactory compliance with such requirements. These requirements may increase in the future as a result of statutory and regulatory changes. Although we are very committed to compliance and safety, we may not, either now or in the future, be in full compliance at all times with such statutory and regulatory requirements. Consequently, we could be required to incur significant costs to maintain or improve our compliance with such requirements. Seasonality makes it harder for us to manage our businesses and for investors to evaluate our performance. Our business operations are affected by seasonal fluctuations due to weather and budgetary cycles influencing the timing of customers' spending for our services. Typically during the first quarter of each calendar year, there is less demand for environmental remediation due to weather-related reasons, particularly in the northern and midwestern United States and Canada, and an increased possibility of unplanned weather-related plant shutdowns. Conversely, because a large portion of our energy and industrial services business is carried out in Western Canada and involves moving heavy equipment, our ability to provide such services is dependent on weather conditions. Thawing in the spring renders many secondary roads incapable of supporting heavy equipment, and extremely cold weather in the winter season or wet weather during any season can limit our ability to provide timely services. As a result, the operating performance of our energy and industrial services business also tends to be seasonal (with higher revenues during the first quarter of each year and reduced revenues during the second quarter) and may be negatively impacted by adverse weather conditions during any quarter. This seasonality makes it harder for us to manage our businesses and for investors to evaluate our performance. Future conditions might require us to make substantial write-downs in our assets, which would adversely affect our balance sheet and results of operations. Periodically, we review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. At the end of each of 2009, 2008 and 2007, we determined that no asset write-downs were required; however, if conditions in either the environmental services or energy and industrial services businesses were to deteriorate significantly, we could determine that certain of our assets were impaired and we would then be required to write-off all or a portion of our costs for such assets. Any such significant write-offs would adversely affect our balance sheet and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Risks Particularly Affecting Our Environmental Services Business We assumed significant environmental liabilities as part of past acquisitions, and our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if we were required to pay such liabilities more rapidly or in greater amounts than now estimated. We have accrued environmental liabilities valued as of December 31, 2009, at $181.3 million, substantially all of which we assumed in connection with our acquisitions of substantially all of the assets of the Chemical Services Division, or "CSD," of Safety-Kleen Corp. in 2002, Teris LLC in 2006, and one of two solvent recycling facilities we purchased from Safety-Kleen Systems, Inc. in 2008. This amount does not include approximately $3.0 million of additional environmental liabilities related to the Pembina Area Landfill which Eveready owned and operated that we have agreed to divest. We calculate our environmental liabilities on a present value basis in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (which takes into consideration both the amount of such liabilities and the timing when it is projected that we will be required to pay such liabilities). We anticipate our environmental liabilities will be payable over many years and that cash flows generated from our operations will generally be sufficient to fund the payment of such liabilities when required. However, events not now anticipated (such as future changes in environmental laws and regulations or their enforcement) could require that such payments be made earlier or in greater amounts than now estimated, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to obtain at reasonable cost the insurance, surety bonds and financial assurances which are required for our operations, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. We purchase insurance, occasionally post bid and performance bonds, and are required to provide substantial amounts of financial assurance to governmental agencies for closure and post-closure care of our licensed hazardous waste treatment facilities should those facilities cease operation. As of December 31, 2009, our total estimated closure and post-closure costs requiring financial assurance by regulators (excluding Eveready's estimated costs as described below) were $319.7 million for our U.S. facilities and $22.7 million for our Canadian facilities. We have placed all of the required financial assurance through a qualified insurance company, Steadfast Insurance Company (a unit of Zurich Insurance N.A.), or "Steadfast." The U.S. facilities are insured with an insurance policy written by Steadfast which expires in 2013. The Canadian facilities utilize surety bonds provided through Zurich Insurance Company (Canada), which expire at various dates throughout 2010. As of July 31, 2009, Eveready had outstanding letters of credit of $1.9 million that were issued to comply with certain environmental regulations relating to Eveready's closure and post-closure costs. We replaced two of the three letters of credit for $1.2 million with surety bonds and the remaining outstanding letter of credit as of December 31, 2009 will be replaced with a letter of credit under our current credit facility in the first quarter of 2010. Our ability to continue conducting our operations would be adversely affected if we became unable to obtain sufficient insurance, surety bonds or other financial assurances at reasonable cost to meet our business and regulatory requirements in the future. The availability of insurance could be affected by factors outside of our control as well as the insurers' or sureties' assessment of our risk. If we should become unable to obtain such letters of credit under our financial arrangements, we might be unable to obtain sufficient insurance or other financial assurances. The environmental services industry in which we participate is subject to significant economic and business risks. Our future operating results of our environmental services business may be affected by such factors as our ability to utilize our facilities and workforce profitably in the face of intense price competition; maintain or increase market share in an industry which has experienced significant downsizing and 20 Table of Contents consolidation; realize benefits from cost reduction programs; generate incremental volumes of waste to be handled through our facilities from existing and acquired sales offices and service centers; obtain sufficient volumes of waste at prices which produce revenue sufficient to offset the operating costs of the facilities; minimize downtime and disruptions of operations; and develop our field services business. In particular, economic downturns or recessionary conditions in North America, and increased outsourcing by North American manufacturers to plants located in countries with lower wage costs and less stringent environmental regulations, have adversely affected and may in the future adversely affect the demand for our services. The hazardous and industrial waste management business is also cyclical to the extent that it is dependent upon a stream of waste from cyclical industries such as the chemical and petrochemical, primary metals, paper, furniture and aerospace industries. If those cyclical industries slow significantly, the business that we receive from those industries is likely to slow. A significant portion of our environmental services business depends upon the demand for major remedial projects and regulatory developments over which we have no control. Our operations are significantly affected by the commencement and completion of major remedial projects; cleanup of major spills or other events; seasonal fluctuations due to weather and budgetary cycles influencing the timing of customers' spending for remedial activities; the timing of regulatory decisions relating to hazardous waste management projects; changes in regulations governing the management of hazardous waste; secular changes in the waste processing industry towards waste minimization and the propensity for delays in the remedial market; and changes in the myriad of governmental regulations governing our diverse operations. We do not control such factors and, as a result, our revenue and income can vary significantly from quarter to quarter, and past financial performance for certain quarters may not be a reliable indicator of future performance for comparable quarters in subsequent years. The extensive environmental regulations to which we are subject may increase our costs and potential liabilities. Our operations and those of others in the environmental services industry involve the handling of dangerous and hazardous materials, and are subject to extensive federal, state, provincial and local environmental requirements in both the United States and Canada, including those relating to emissions to air, discharged wastewater, storage, treatment, transport and disposal of regulated materials and cleanups of soil and groundwater contamination. While increasing environmental regulation often presents new business opportunities for us, it often results in increased operating and compliance costs. Efforts to conduct our operations in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including environmental rules and regulations, require programs to promote compliance, such as training employees and customers, purchasing health and safety equipment, and in some cases hiring outside consultants and lawyers. Even with these programs, we and other companies in the environmental services industry are routinely faced with governmental enforcement proceedings, which can result in fines or other sanctions and require expenditures for remedial work on waste management facilities and contaminated sites. Certain of these laws impose strict and, under certain circumstances, joint and several liability on current and former owners and operators of facilities that release regulated materials, and that generate those materials and arrange for their disposal or treatment at contaminated sites. Such liabilities can relate to cleanup of releases of regulated materials and related natural resource damages. From time to time, we have paid fines or penalties in governmental environmental enforcement proceedings, usually involving our waste treatment, storage and disposal facilities. Although none of these fines or penalties that we have paid in the past has had a material adverse effect upon us, we might in the future be required to make substantial expenditures as a result of governmental proceedings, which would have a negative impact on our earnings. Furthermore, regulators have the 21 Table of Contents power to suspend or revoke permits or licenses needed for operation of our plants, equipment, and vehicles based on, among other factors, our compliance record, and customers may decide not to use a particular disposal facility or do business with us because of concerns about our compliance record. Suspension or revocation of permits or licenses would impact our operations and could have a material adverse impact on financial results. Although we have never had any of our facilities' operating permits revoked, suspended or non-renewed involuntarily, it is possible that such an event could occur in the future. Some environmental laws and regulations impose liability and responsibility on present and former owners, operators or users of facilities and sites for contamination at such facilities and sites without regard to causation or knowledge of contamination. In the past, practices have resulted in releases of regulated materials at and from certain of our facilities, or the disposal of regulated materials at third party sites, which may require investigation and remediation, and potentially result in claims of personal injury, property damage and damages to natural resources. In addition, we occasionally evaluate various alternatives with respect to our facilities, including possible dispositions or closures. Investigations undertaken in connection with these activities may lead to discoveries of contamination that must be remediated, and closures of facilities might trigger compliance requirements that are not applicable to operating facilities. We are currently conducting remedial activities at certain of our sites and paying a portion of the remediation costs at certain sites owned by third parties. While, based on available information, we do not believe these remedial activities will result in a material adverse effect upon our operations or financial condition, these activities or the discovery of previously unknown conditions could result in material costs. Environmental and land use laws also impact our ability to expand. In addition, we are required to obtain governmental permits to operate our facilities, including all of our landfills. Even if we were to comply with applicable environmental law, there is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain the requisite permits from the applicable governmental authorities, and, even if we could, that any permit (and any existing permits we currently hold) will be extended or modified as needed to fit out business needs. We may make further acquisitions from time to time in the future, and we have tried and will continue to try to evaluate and limit environmental risks and liabilities presented by businesses or facilities to be acquired prior to the acquisition. It is possible that some liabilities, including ones that may exist only because of the past operations of an acquired business or facility, may prove to be more difficult or costly to address than we anticipate. It is also possible that government officials responsible for enforcing environmental laws may believe an issue is more serious than we expect, or that we will fail to identify or fully appreciate an existing liability before we become legally responsible to address it. Some of the legal sanctions to which we could become subject could cause the suspension or revocation of a needed permit, or prevent us from or delay us in obtaining or renewing permits to operate or expand our facilities or harm our reputation. In addition to the costs of complying with environmental laws and regulations, we incur costs defending against environmental litigation brought by governmental agencies and private parties. We are now, and may in the future be, a defendant in lawsuits brought by parties alleging environmental damage, personal injury, and/or property damage, which may result in our payment of significant amount of liabilities. Future changes in environmental regulations may require us to make significant capital expenditures. Changes in environmental regulations can require us to make significant capital expenditures for our facilities. For example, in 2002, the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or "EPA," promulgated Interim Standards of the Hazardous Waste Combustor Maximum Achievable Control Technology, or "MACT," under the Federal Clean Air Act Amendments. These standards established 22 Table of Contents new emissions limits and operational controls on all new and existing incinerators, cement kilns and light-weight aggregate kilns that burn hazardous waste-derived fuels. We have spent approximately $28.9 million since September 7, 2002 in order to bring our Deer Park, Texas and Aragonite, Utah incineration facilities, which we then acquired as part of the CSD assets, and our Kimball, Nebraska facility into compliance with the MACT regulations. Prior to our acquisition in August 2006 of our additional incineration facility in El Dorado, Arkansas, as part of our purchase of all the membership interests in Teris LLC, Teris had spent in excess of $30 million in order to bring that facility into compliance with the MACT standards. Future environmental regulations could cause us to make significant additional capital expenditures and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. In late June 2009 the U.S. House of Representatives passed HR 2454, The American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009 (also known as the Waxman/Markey Bill), which is now pending in the U.S. Senate. The bill as passed by the House does not impose any onerous provisions which would adversely affect our facilities, and includes some provisions which might be beneficial to our business of incinerating toxic materials. However, no assurances can be given that the final version of the bill, if enacted by the U.S. Congress and subsequently signed into law by the President, would not include provisions which could cause us to incur additional expenditures. If our assumptions relating to expansion of our landfills should prove inaccurate, our results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected. When we include the expansion airspace in our calculations of available airspace, we adjust our landfill liabilities to the present value of projected costs for cell closure and landfill closure and post-closure. It is possible that any of our estimates or assumptions could ultimately turn out to be significantly different from actual results. In some cases we may be unsuccessful in obtaining an expansion permit or we may determine that an expansion permit that we previously thought was probable has become unlikely. To the extent that such estimates, or the assumptions used to make those estimates, prove to be significantly different than actual results, or our belief that we will receive an expansion permit changes adversely in a significant manner, the landfill assets, including the assets incurred in the pursuit of the expansion, may be subject to impairment testing and lower prospective profitability may result due to increased interest accretion and depreciation or asset impairments related to the removal of previously included expansion airspace. In addition, if our assumptions concerning the expansion airspace should prove inaccurate, certain of our cash expenditures for closure of landfills could be accelerated and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Risks Particularly Affecting Our Energy and Industrial Services Business A large portion of our energy and industrial services business is dependent on the oil and gas industry in Western Canada, and declines in oil and gas production in that region adversely affect our business. Our energy and industrial services business generates well over 50% of its total revenues from customers in the oil and gas industry operating in Western Canada, although a majority of the services which we provide to such customers relate to industrial maintenance and production which are less volatile than oil and gas exploration. We also provide significant services to customers in the oil and gas industry operating in the United States or internationally and to customers in other industries such as forestry, mining and manufacturing. However, a major portion of the total revenues of our energy and industrial services business remains dependent on customers in the oil and gas industry operating in Western Canada. Accordingly, declines in the general level of oil and gas production in Western Canada could potentially have in the future significant adverse effects on our total revenues and profitability. Such declines have recently been, and could in the future be, triggered by declines in the commodity prices 23 Table of Contents for oil and gas. Such future declines could also be triggered by technological and regulatory changes and other changes in industry and worldwide economic and political conditions. A significant part of our energy and industrial services business relates to the Alberta oil sands. Many of our major customers in the oil and gas industry operating in Western Canada conduct a significant portion of their operations in the Alberta oil sands. The Alberta oil sands contain large oil deposits, but extraction may involve significantly greater cost and environmental concerns than conventional oil drilling. While we believe our major involvement in the oil sands region will provide significant future growth opportunities, such involvement also increases the risk that our business will be adversely affected if future economic activity in the Alberta oil sands were to decline considerably. Major factors that could cause such a decline might include a prolonged decline in the commodity price of oil and gas, potential future changes in environmental restrictions and regulations, and technological and regulatory changes relating to production of oil from the oil sands. Due to the current downturn in worldwide economic conditions and a substantial decline in the commodity price of oil and gas, certain of our customers have delayed a number of large projects in the planning and early development phases within the oil sands region. In addition, customers are revisiting their operating budgets and challenging their suppliers to reduce costs and achieve better efficiencies in their work programs. Our energy and industrial services business is subject to workforce availability. Our ability to provide high quality services to our customers is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain well-trained, experienced employees. The oil and gas services industry in Western Canada experienced in the past several years high demand for, and a corresponding shortage of, quality employees. Although the current downturn in the oil and gas industry has increased the pool of quality employees available to meet our customer commitments, any improvement of conditions in the oil and gas industry would likely increase competition for experienced employees. If we are unable to successfully complete the integration of Eveready's business and operations into our business and operations and realize synergies in the expected time frame, our future results would be adversely affected. We substantially increased our energy and industrial services business through our acquisition of Eveready on July 31, 2009. Our integration of Eveready's business and operations into our business and operations has required and will continue to require implementation of appropriate operations, management and financial reporting systems and controls. The integration of Eveready has required and will continue to require the focused attention of our management teams, including a significant commitment of their time and resources. The success of the acquisition will depend, in part, on the combined company's ability to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the respective businesses and operations of Clean Harbors and Eveready through cost reductions in overhead, greater efficiencies, increased utilization of support facilities and the adoption of mutual best practices. To realize these anticipated benefits, however, the businesses and operations of Clean Harbors and Eveready must continue to be successfully combined. If the combined company is not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits to us of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, as well as the disruption of our ongoing businesses, failure to implement the business plan for the combined businesses, unanticipated issues in integrating service offerings, logistics, information, communications and other systems, or other unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities, any or all of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees and to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. 24 Table of Contents Our acquisition of Eveready may expose us to unknown liabilities. Because we acquired all of Eveready's outstanding common shares, our investment in Eveready is subject to all of Eveready's liabilities other than Eveready's debt which we paid either at the time of the acquisition or shortly thereafter upon our issuance of the notes. If there are unknown Eveready obligations, including contingent liabilities, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We may learn additional information about Eveready's business that adversely affects us, such as unknown liabilities or issues relating to internal controls over financial reporting or that could affect our ability to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or other applicable laws. As a result, our acquisition of Eveready might not be successful. Risks Relating to Our Level of Debt and the Notes Our substantial levels of outstanding debt and letters of credit could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to fulfill our obligations under the notes. As of December 31, 2009, after giving effect to our (i) acquisition of Eveready on July 31, 2009, (ii) sale of the notes on August 14, 2009, (iii) repayment between July 24 and August 14, 2009 of substantially all of our and Eveready's then outstanding debt (other than certain capital leases) using a portion of our available cash and the net proceeds from the sale of the notes, and (iv) payment of related fees and expenses, we had outstanding $292.4 million of debt and $88.7 million of letters of credit. Our substantial levels of outstanding debt and letters of credit may: •adversely impact our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes or to repurchase the notes from holders upon any change of control; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of interest on our debt and fees on our letters of credit, which reduces the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; •subject us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases based upon variable interest rates, including our borrowings (if any) under our new revolving credit facility; •increase the possibility of an event of default under the financial and operating covenants contained in our debt instruments; and •limit our ability to adjust to rapidly changing market conditions, reduce our ability to withstand competitive pressures and make us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions of our business than our competitors with less debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and letter of credit fee obligations, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt and letter of credit facilities, or to obtain new or additional such facilities. However, we may not be able to obtain any such new or additional facilities on favorable terms or at all. Despite our substantial levels of outstanding debt and letters of credit, we could incur substantially more debt and letter of credit obligations in the future. Although the agreements governing our new revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the notes contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness (including, for this purpose, reimbursement obligations under outstanding letters of credit), these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and the additional amount of indebtedness which we might incur in the future in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. In particular, we had available as of December 31, 2009 under our new revolving credit facility up to an additional approximately $31.3 million for purposes of future borrowings and letters of credit. In addition, the 25 Table of Contents indenture governing the notes would also allow us to borrow significant amounts of money from other sources. These restrictions would also not prevent us from incurring obligations (such as operating leases) that do not constitute "indebtedness" as defined in the relevant agreements. To the extent we incur in the future additional debt and letter of credit obligations, the related risks will increase. Servicing our debt, including the notes, any revolving loans and capital leases, and paying our letter of credit fee obligations, will require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal or interest with respect to our debt, including the notes, any revolving loans and our capital leases, and to pay fee obligations with respect to our letters of credit, will depend on our ability to generate cash and on our future financial results. Our ability to generate cash depends on, among other factors, the demand for our services, which is subject to market conditions in the environmental, energy and industrial services industries, the occurrence of events requiring major remedial projects, changes in government environmental regulation, general economic conditions, and financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our operations may not generate sufficient cash flow, and future borrowings may not be available under our new revolving credit facility or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt and the fee obligations respecting our letters of credit, or to fund our other liquidity needs. The covenants in our financing agreements will restrict our ability to operate our business and might lead to a default under our debt agreements. The agreements governing our new revolving credit facility and the indenture relating to the notes limit, among other things, our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: •incur or guarantee additional indebtedness (including, for this purpose, reimbursement obligations under letters of credit) or issue preferred stock; •pay dividends or make other distributions to our stockholders; •purchase or redeem capital stock or subordinated indebtedness; •make investments; •create liens; •incur restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us; •sell assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries; •consolidate or merge with or into other companies or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and •engage in transactions with affiliates. As a result of these covenants, we may not be able to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us. Our new revolving credit facility requires, and our future credit facilities may require, us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Our ability to meet these financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet those tests. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our revolving credit facility or future credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under such credit facilities, including accrued interest or other obligations, to be immediately due and 26 Table of Contents payable. If amounts outstanding under such credit facilities were to be accelerated, our assets might not be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and our other indebtedness, including the notes. The instruments governing certain of our debt, including the indenture governing the notes and our new revolving credit facility, also contain cross-default provisions. Under these provisions, a default under one instrument governing our debt may constitute a default under our other debt instruments that contain cross-default provisions, which could result in the related debt and the debt issued under such other instruments becoming immediately due and payable. In such event, we would need to raise funds from alternative sources, which funds might not be available to us on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. Alternatively, such a default could require us to sell assets and otherwise curtail operations to pay our creditors. The proceeds of such a sale of assets, or curtailment of operations, might not enable us to pay all of our liabilities. Risks Relating to Certain Anti-Takeover Provisions Sections 8.06 and 7.02 of the Massachusetts Business Corporation Act provide that Massachusetts corporations which are publicly-held must have a staggered board of directors and that written demand by holders of at least 40% of the outstanding shares of each relevant voting group of stockholders is required for stockholders to call a special meeting unless such corporations take certain actions to affirmatively "opt-out" of such requirements. In accordance with these provisions, our By-Laws provide for a staggered Board of Directors which consists of three classes of directors of which one class is elected each year for a three-year term, and require that written application by holders of at least 25% (which is less than the 40% which would otherwise be applicable without such a specific provision in our By-Laws) of our outstanding shares of common stock is required for stockholders to call a special meeting. In addition, our By-Laws prohibit the removal by the stockholders of a director except for cause. These provisions could inhibit a takeover of our company by restricting stockholders action to replace the existing directors or approve other actions which a party seeking to acquire us might propose. A takeover transaction would frequently afford stockholders an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over then market prices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 