ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSAn investment in our securities involves certain risks, including those described below. You should consider carefully these risk factors together with all of the information included in this report before investing in our securities.14Table Of ContentsRisks Affecting Both Our Environmental Services and Energy and Industrial Services BusinessesOur businesses are subject to operational and safety risks.Provision of both environmental services and energy and industrial services to our customers involves risks such as equipment defects, malfunctions and failures, and natural disasters, which could potentially result in releases of hazardous materials, injury or death of our employees, or a need to shut down or reduce operation of our facilities while remedial actions are undertaken. Our employees often work under potentially hazardous conditions. These risks expose us to potential liability for pollution and other environmental damages, personal injury, loss of life, business interruption, and property damage or destruction. We must also maintain a solid safety record in order to remain a preferred supplier to our major customers.While we seek to minimize our exposure to such risks through comprehensive training programs, vehicle and equipment maintenance programs, and insurance, such programs and insurance may not be adequate to cover all of our potential liabilities and such insurance may not in the future be available at commercially reasonable rates. If we were to incur substantial liabilities in excess of policy limits or at a time when we were not able to obtain adequate liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected to a material extent. Furthermore, should our safety record deteriorate, we could be subject to a potential reduction of revenues from our major customers.Our businesses are subject to significant competition.We compete with a large number of companies, which range from large public companies to small operators that provide most of the same or similar services to those we offer. The 2008-2010 downturn in economic conditions, particularly with respect to manufacturing and oil and gas exploration and production, caused increased competition for market share. This competition resulted during that period and could in the future result in lower prices and reduced gross margins for our services and negatively affect our ability to grow or sustain our current revenue and profit levels in the future.Our businesses are subject to numerous statutory and regulatory requirements, which may increase in the future.Our businesses are subject to numerous statutory and regulatory requirements, and our ability to continue to hold licenses and permits required for our businesses is subject to maintaining satisfactory compliance with such requirements. These requirements may increase in the future as a result of statutory and regulatory changes. Although we are very committed to compliance and safety, we may not, either now or in the future, be in full compliance at all times with such statutory and regulatory requirements. Consequently, we could be required to incur significant costs to maintain or improve our compliance with such requirements.Future conditions might require us to make substantial write-downs in our assets, which would adversely affect our balance sheet and results of operations.We review our long-lived tangible and intangible assets other than goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. We also test our goodwill assets for impairment at least annually on December 31, or when events or changes in the business environment indicate that the carrying value of a reporting unit may exceed its fair value. During and as of the end of each of 2012, 2011 and 2010, we determined that no asset write-downs were required; however, if conditions in either the environmental services or energy and industrial services businesses were to deteriorate significantly, we could determine that certain of our assets were impaired and we would then be required to write-off all or a portion of our costs for such assets. Any such significant write-offs would adversely affect our balance sheet and results of operations.Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange could affect our financial results.We earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In fiscal 2012, we recorded 44% of our revenues outside of the United States, primarily in Canada. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses as well as assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies in countries where we operate will affect our results of operations and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. These risks are non-cash exposures. We manage these risks through normal operating and financing activities. We cannot be certain, however, that we will be successful in reducing the risks inherent in exposures to foreign currency fluctuations.15Table Of ContentsIf we are unable to successfully integrate the businesses and operations of Safety-Kleen and our other recent and any future acquisitions and realize synergies in the expected time frame, our future results would be adversely affected.We have in the past significantly increased the size of our Company and the types of services we offer to our customers through acquisitions. Since December 31, 2008, we have acquired two public companies (Eveready Inc., or "Eveready," in July 2009, and Peak Energy Services Ltd., or "Peak," in June 2011) and 15 private companies (including six private companies acquired during 2010, 2011 and 2012). The largest was our acquisition of Safety-Kleen, Inc., a private company, and its subsidiaries (collectively, “Safety-Kleen”), which we purchased on December 28, 2012 for approximately $1.3 billion. We anticipate that we will likely make additional acquisitions in the future. Much of the potential benefit of such completed and potential future acquisitions, including the recent acquisition of Safety-Kleen, will depend on our integration of the businesses and operations of the acquired companies into our business and operations through implementation of appropriate management and financial reporting systems and controls. We may experience difficulties in such integration, and the integration process may be costly and time-consuming. Such integration will require the focused attention of both Clean Harbors' and their management teams, including a significant commitment of their time and resources. The need for both Clean Harbors' and their managements to focus on integration matters could have a material impact on the revenues and operating results of the combined company. The success of the acquisitions will depend, in part, on the combined company's ability to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of Clean Harbors and the acquired businesses through cost reductions in overhead, greater efficiencies, increased utilization of support facilities and the adoption of mutual best practices. To realize these anticipated benefits, however, the businesses of Clean Harbors and the acquired companies must be successfully combined. If the combined company is not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits to us of the acquisitions may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. It is possible that the integration processes could result in the loss of key employees, as well as the disruption of each company's ongoing businesses, failure to implement the business plan for the combined company, unanticipated issues in integrating operating, logistics, information, communications and other systems, unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations, operating risks inherent in our business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies or other unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities, any or all of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with our and the acquired companies' customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. Our acquisitions of Safety-Kleen and other companies may expose us to unknown liabilities. Because we have acquired, and expect to acquire, all the outstanding common shares of most of our acquired companies, including our acquisition in December 2012 of all of the outstanding shares of Safety-Kleen, Inc., our investment in those companies are or will be subject to all of their liabilities other than their respective debts which we paid or will pay at the time of the acquisitions. If there are unknown liabilities or other obligations, including contingent liabilities, arising from our acquisitions of Safety-Kleen and other companies, our business could be materially affected. We may learn additional information about Safety-Kleen and the other acquired companies that adversely affects us, such as unknown liabilities or other issues relating to internal controls over financial reporting, issues that could affect our ability to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or issues that could affect our ability to comply with other applicable laws. Risks Particularly Affecting Our Environmental Services BusinessWe assumed significant environmental liabilities as part of our past acquisitions and may assume additional such liabilities as part of future acquisitions. Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected if we were required to pay such liabilities more rapidly or in greater amounts than we now estimate or may estimate in connection with future acquisitions.We have accrued environmental liabilities valued as of December 31, 2012, at $221.5 million, substantially all of which we assumed in connection with our acquisitions of substantially all of the assets of the Chemical Services Division, or "CSD," of Safety-Kleen Corp. in 2002, Teris LLC in 2006, one of two solvent recycling facilities we purchased from Safety-Kleen Services, Inc. in 2008, and the remaining Safety-Kleen facilities acquired as part of our acquisition of Safety-Kleen in 2012. We calculate our environmental liabilities on a present value basis in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, which take into consideration both the amount of such liabilities and the timing when it is projected that we will be required to pay such liabilities. We anticipate our environmental liabilities will be payable over many years and that cash flows generated from our operations will generally be sufficient to fund the payment of such liabilities when required. However, events not now anticipated (such as future changes in environmental laws and regulations or their enforcement) could require that such 16Table Of Contentspayments be made earlier or in greater amounts than now estimated, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We may also assume additional environmental liabilities as part of further acquisitions. Although we will endeavor to accurately estimate and limit environmental liabilities presented by the businesses or facilities to be acquired, some liabilities, including ones that may exist only because of the past operations of an acquired business or facility, may prove to be more difficult or costly to address than we then estimate. It is also possible that government officials responsible for enforcing environmental laws may believe an environmental liability is more significant than we then estimate, or that we will fail to identify or fully appreciate an existing liability before we become legally responsible to address it.If we are unable to obtain at reasonable cost the insurance, surety bonds, letters of credit and other forms of financial assurance required for our facilities and operations, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected.We are required to provide substantial amounts of financial assurance to governmental agencies for closure and post-closure care of our licensed hazardous waste treatment facilities should those facilities cease operation, and we are also occasionally required to post surety, bid and performance bonds in connection with certain projects. As of December 31, 2012, our total estimated closure and post-closure costs requiring financial assurance by regulators (other than for Safety-Kleen's facilities acquired as part of our acquisition of Safety-Kleen on December 28, 2012) were $343.1 million for our U.S. facilities and $22.4 million for our Canadian facilities. We have obtained all of the required financial assurance for our facilities (other than those acquired as part of the Safety-Kleen acquisition) from a qualified insurance company, Zurich Insurance N.A., and its affiliated companies. The closure and post-closure obligations of our U.S. facilities (other than those acquired as part of the Safety-Kleen acquisition) are insured by an insurance policy written by Steadfast Insurance Company (a unit of Zurich Insurance N.A.), which will expire in 2013. Our Canadian facilities (other than those acquired as part of the Safety-Kleen acquisition) utilize surety bonds provided through Zurich Insurance Company (Canada), which expire at various dates throughout 2013. In connection with obtaining such insurance and surety bonds, we have provided to Steadfast Insurance Company $73.5 million of letters of credit which we obtained from our lenders under our revolving credit agreement. As of December 31, 2012, Safety-Kleen’s total estimated closure, post-closure costs and corrective action costs requiring financial assurance by regulators were $46.8 million for Safety-Kleen’s U.S. facilities and $5.3 million for Safety-Kleen’s Canadian facilities. Safety-Kleen has obtained all of the required U.S. financial assurance for its facilities from a qualified insurance company, XL Insurance Company, and its affiliated companies, which will expire in 2013, except for Safety-Kleen’s Pennsylvania facilities which utilize letters of credit. In connection with obtaining such insurance for its U.S. facilities, Safety-Kleen has provided to XL Insurance Company a $5.0 million letter of credit which Safety-Kleen obtained from its lenders under its revolving credit agreement. Safety-Kleen’s Canadian facilities utilize surety bonds provided through Travelers Insurance Company (Canada), which will expire in 2014, and letters of credit.Our ability to continue operating our facilities and conducting our other operations would be adversely affected if we became unable to obtain sufficient insurance, surety bonds, letters of credit and other forms of financial assurance at reasonable cost to meet our regulatory and other business requirements. The availability of insurance, surety bonds, letters of credit and other forms of financial assurance is affected by our insurers', sureties' and lenders' assessment of our risk and by other factors outside of our control such as general conditions in the insurance and credit markets.The environmental services industry in which we participate is subject to significant economic and business risks.The future operating results of our environmental services business may be affected by such factors as our ability to utilize our facilities and workforce profitably in the face of intense price competition, maintain or increase market share in an industry which has experienced significant downsizing and consolidation, realize benefits from cost reduction programs, generate incremental volumes of waste to be handled through our facilities from existing and acquired sales offices and service centers, obtain sufficient volumes of waste at prices which produce revenue sufficient to offset the operating costs of the facilities, minimize downtime and disruptions of operations, and develop our field services business. In particular, economic downturns or recessionary conditions in North America, and increased outsourcing by North American manufacturers to plants located in countries with lower wage costs and less stringent environmental regulations, have adversely affected and may in the future adversely affect the demand for our services. Our hazardous and industrial waste management business is also cyclical to the extent that it is dependent upon a stream of waste from cyclical industries such as the chemical and petrochemical, primary metals, paper, furniture and aerospace industries. If those cyclical industries slow significantly, the business that we receive from those industries is likely to slow.A significant portion of our environmental services business depends upon the demand for cleanup of major spills and other remedial projects and regulatory developments over which we have no control.Our operations are significantly affected by the commencement and completion of cleanup of major spills and other events, customers' decisions to undertake remedial projects, seasonal fluctuations due to weather and budgetary cycles 17Table Of Contentsinfluencing the timing of customers' spending for remedial activities, the timing of regulatory decisions relating to hazardous waste management projects, changes in regulations governing the management of hazardous waste, secular changes in the waste processing industry towards waste minimization and the propensity for delays in the demand for remedial services, and changes in the myriad of governmental regulations governing our diverse operations. We do not control such factors and, as a result, our revenue and income can vary significantly from quarter to quarter, and past financial performance for certain quarters may not be a reliable indicator of future performance for comparable quarters in subsequent years. In particular, our participation in oil spill response efforts in Yellowstone, Montana generated third party revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 of $43.6 million, which accounted for approximately 2% of total revenues, and our participation in oil spill response efforts in both the Gulf of Mexico and Michigan generated third party revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 of $253.0 million, which accounted for approximately 15% of total revenues. We cannot expect such event revenue to reoccur in 2013.The extensive environmental regulations to which we are subject may increase our costs and potential liabilities and limit our ability to expand our facilities.Our operations and those of others in the environmental services industry are subject to extensive federal, state, provincial and local environmental requirements in both the United States and Canada, including those relating to emissions to air, discharged wastewater, storage, treatment, transport and disposal of regulated materials and cleanup of soil and groundwater contamination. For example, any failure to comply with governmental regulations governing the transport of hazardous materials could negatively impact our ability to collect, process and ultimately dispose of hazardous wastes generated by our customers. While increasing environmental regulation often presents new business opportunities for us, it often also results in increased operating and compliance costs. Efforts to conduct our operations in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including environmental rules and regulations, require programs to promote compliance, such as training employees and customers, purchasing health and safety equipment, and in some cases hiring outside consultants and lawyers. Even with these programs, we and other companies in the environmental services industry are routinely faced with governmental enforcement proceedings, which can result in fines or other sanctions and require expenditures for remedial work on waste management facilities and contaminated sites. Certain of these laws impose strict and, under certain circumstances, joint and several liability on current and former owners and operators of facilities that release regulated materials or that generate those materials and arrange for their disposal or treatment at contaminated sites. Such liabilities can relate to required cleanup of releases of regulated materials and related natural resource damages.From time to time, we have paid fines or penalties in governmental environmental enforcement proceedings, usually involving our waste treatment, storage and disposal facilities. Although none of these fines or penalties that we have paid in the past has had a material adverse effect upon us, we might in the future be required to make substantial expenditures as a result of governmental proceedings which would have a negative impact on our earnings. Furthermore, regulators have the power to suspend or revoke permits or licenses needed for operation of our plants, equipment, and vehicles based on, among other factors, our compliance record, and customers may decide not to use a particular disposal facility or do business with us because of concerns about our compliance record. Suspension or revocation of permits or licenses would impact our operations and could have a material impact on our financial results. Although we have never had any of our facilities' operating permits revoked, suspended or non-renewed involuntarily, it is possible that such an event could occur in the future.Some environmental laws and regulations impose liability and responsibility on present and former owners, operators or users of facilities and sites for contamination at such facilities and sites without regard to causation or knowledge of contamination. In the past, practices have resulted in releases of regulated materials at and from certain of our facilities, or the disposal of regulated materials at third party sites, which may require investigation and remediation, and potentially result in claims of personal injury, property damage and damages to natural resources. In addition, we occasionally evaluate various alternatives with respect to our facilities, including possible dispositions or closures. Investigations undertaken in connection with these activities may lead to discoveries of contamination that must be remediated, and closures of facilities might trigger compliance requirements that are not applicable to operating facilities. We are currently conducting remedial activities at certain of our facilities and paying a portion of the remediation costs at certain sites owned by third parties. While, based on available information, we do not believe these remedial activities will result in a material effect upon our operations or financial condition, these activities or the discovery of previously unknown conditions could result in material costs.In addition to the costs of complying with environmental laws and regulations, we incur costs defending against environmental litigation brought by governmental agencies and private parties. We are now, and may in the future be, a defendant in lawsuits brought by parties alleging environmental damage, personal injury, and/or property damage, which may result in our payment of significant amounts of liabilities.Environmental and land use laws also impact our ability to expand our facilities. In addition, we are required to obtain governmental permits to operate our facilities, including all of our landfills. Even if we were to comply with all applicable environmental laws, there is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain the requisite permits from the applicable 18Table Of Contentsgovernmental authorities, and, even if we could, that permit (and any existing permits we currently hold) will be extended or modified as needed to fit out business needs.Future changes in environmental regulations may require us to make significant capital expenditures.Changes in environmental regulations can require us to make significant capital expenditures for our facilities. For example, in 2002, the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or "EPA," promulgated Interim Standards of the Hazardous Waste Combustor Maximum Achievable Control Technology, or "MACT," under the Federal Clean Air Act Amendments. These standards established new emissions limits and operational controls on all new and existing incinerators, cement kilns and light-weight aggregate kilns that burn hazardous waste-derived fuels. We have spent approximately $29.6 million since September 7, 2002 in order to bring our Deer Park, Texas and Aragonite, Utah incineration facilities, which we then acquired as part of the CSD assets, and our Kimball, Nebraska facility into compliance with the MACT regulations. Prior to our acquisition in August 2006 of our additional incineration facility in El Dorado, Arkansas, as part of our purchase of all the membership interests in Teris LLC, Teris had spent in excess of $30.0 million in order to bring that facility into compliance with the MACT standards. Future environmental regulations could cause us to make significant additional capital expenditures and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow.If our assumptions relating to expansion of our landfills should prove inaccurate, our results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected.When we include expansion airspace in our calculation of available airspace, we adjust our landfill liabilities to the present value of projected costs for cell closure and landfill closure and post-closure. It is possible that any of our estimates or assumptions could ultimately turn out to be significantly different from actual results. In some cases we may be unsuccessful in obtaining an expansion permit or we may determine that an expansion permit that we previously thought was probable has become unlikely. To the extent that such estimates, or the assumptions used to make those estimates, prove to be significantly different than actual results, or our belief that we will receive an expansion permit changes adversely in a significant manner, the landfill assets, including the assets incurred in the pursuit of the expansion, may be subject to impairment testing and lower prospective profitability may result due to increased interest accretion and depreciation or asset impairments related to the removal of previously included expansion airspace. In addition, if our assumptions concerning expansion airspace should prove inaccurate, certain of our cash expenditures for closure of landfills could be accelerated and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow.Risks Particularly Affecting Our Energy and Industrial Services BusinessA large portion of our energy and industrial services business is dependent on the oil and gas industry in Western Canada, and declines in oil and gas exploration and production in that region could adversely affect our business.Our energy and industrial services business generates well over 50% of its total revenues from customers in the oil and gas industry operating in Western Canada, although a majority of the services we provide to such customers relate to industrial maintenance and oil and gas production and refining which are less volatile than oil and gas exploration. We also provide significant services to customers in the oil and gas industry operating in the United States or internationally and to customers in other industries such as forestry, mining and manufacturing. However, a major portion of the total revenues of our energy and industrial services business remains dependent on customers in the oil and gas industry operating in Western Canada.Accordingly, declines in the general level of oil and gas exploration, production and refining in Western Canada could potentially have significant adverse effects on our total revenues and profitability. Such declines occurred in 2008-2009 and could potentially occur in the future if reductions in the commodity prices of oil and gas result in reduced oil and gas exploration, production and refining. Such future declines could also be triggered by technological and regulatory changes, such as those affecting the availability and cost of alternative energy sources, and other changes in industry and worldwide economic and political conditions.Many of our major customers in the oil and gas industry conduct a significant portion of their operations in the Alberta oil sands. The Alberta oil sands contain large oil deposits, but extraction may involve significantly greater cost and environmental concerns than conventional drilling. While we believe our major involvement in the oil sands region will provide significant future growth opportunities, such involvement also increases the risk that our business will be adversely affected if future economic activity in the Alberta oil sands were to decline considerably. Major factors that could cause such a decline might include a prolonged reduction in the commodity price of oil, future changes in environmental restrictions and regulations, and technological and regulatory changes relating to production of oil from the oil sands. Due to the downturn in worldwide economic conditions and in the commodity price of oil and gas which occurred in 2008-2009, certain of our customers delayed a number of large projects in the planning and early development phases within the oil sands region. In addition, customers are revisiting their operating budgets and challenging their suppliers to reduce costs and achieve better efficiencies in their work programs.19Table Of ContentsOur energy and industrial services business is subject to workforce availability.Our ability to provide high quality services to our customers is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain well-trained, experienced employees. Prior to 2008, the oil and gas services industry in Western Canada experienced for several years high demand for, and a corresponding shortage of, quality employees resulting, in particular, in employment of a significant number of employees from Eastern Canada on a temporary basis. Although the 2008-2009 downturn in the oil and gas industry increased the pool of quality employees available to meet our customer commitments, the subsequent improvement during 2010-2011 of conditions in the oil and gas industry has increased, and any such improvement which may occur in the future would likely increase, competition for experienced employees.Additional Risks Relating to Our Recent Acquisition of Safety-KleenIn addition to the risks described above which are applicable to our environmental services and energy and industrial services businesses (as those businesses were expanded by our acquisition of Safety-Kleen on December 28, 2012), our acquisition of Safety-Kleen resulted in our becoming subject to certain additional risks, including in the particular the following:Safety-Kleen’s revenues are relatively concentrated among a small number of its largest customers.In 2012, Safety-Kleen’s ten largest customers accounted for approximately 24% of its total revenues and its largest customer accounted for approximately 7% of its total revenues. If one or more of Safety-Kleen’s significant customers were to cease doing business with Safety-Kleen or significantly reduce or delay the purchase of products or services from it, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, Safety-Kleen is subject to credit risk associated with the concentration of its accounts receivable from its customers. None of Safety-Kleen’s accounts receivable are covered by collateral or credit insurance. If one or more of its significant customers or if any material portion of Safety-Kleen’s other customers were to fail to pay Safety-Kleen on a timely basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, future consolidation of Safety-Kleen’s customers or additional concentration of market share among its customers may increase its credit risk. Fluctuations in oil prices may have a negative effect on Safety-Kleen’s future results of operations derived from its oil re-refining and recycling business.A significant portion of Safety-Kleen’s business involves collecting used oil from certain of its customers, re-refining a portion of such used oil into base and blended lubricating oils, and then selling both such re-refined oil and the excess recycled oil which Safety-Kleen does not currently have the capacity to re-refine, or ‘‘RFO,’’ to other customers. The prices at which Safety-Kleen sells its re-refined oil and RFO are affected by changes in the reported spot market prices of oil. If applicable rates increase or decrease, Safety-Kleen typically will charge a higher or lower corresponding price for its re-refined oil and RFO. The price at which Safety-Kleen sells its re-refined oil and RFO is affected by changes in certain indices measuring changes in the price of heavy fuel oil, with increases and decreases in the indices typically translating into a higher or lower price for Safety-Kleen’s RFO. The cost to collect used oil, including the amounts Safety-Kleen must pay to obtain used oil and the fuel costs of its oil collection fleet, typically also increases or decreases when the relevant indices increase or decrease. However, even though the prices Safety-Kleen can charge for its re-refined oil and RFO and the costs to collect and re-refine used oil and process RFO typically increase and decrease together, there is no assurance that when Safety-Kleen’s costs to collect and re-refine used oil and process RFO increase it will be able to increase the prices it charges for its re-refined oil and RFO to cover such increased costs or that the costs to collect and re-refine used oil and process RFO will decline when the prices it can charge for re-refined oil and RFO decline. These risks are exacerbated when there are rapid fluctuations in these oil indices.The price at which Safety-Kleen purchases used oil from its large customers through its oil collection services is generally fixed for a period of time by contract, in some cases for up to 90 days. Because the price Safety-Kleen pays for a majority of its used oil is fixed for a period of time and it can take up to eight weeks to transport, re-refine and blend collected used oil into Safety-Kleen’s finished blended lubricating oil products, Safety-Kleen typically experiences margin contraction during periods when the applicable index rates decline. If the index rates decline rapidly, Safety-Kleen may be locked into paying higher than market prices for used oil during these contracted periods while the prices it can charge for its finished oil products decline. If the prices Safety-Kleen charges for its finished oil products and the costs to collect and re-refine used oil and process RFO do not move together or in similar magnitudes, Safety-Kleen’s profitability may be materially and negatively impacted. Safety-Kleen has entered into several commodity derivatives since 2011, which are comprised of cashless collar contracts related to crude oil prices, in each case, where Safety-Kleen sold a call option to a bank and then purchased a put option from the same bank, in order to manage against significant fluctuations in crude oil prices, which are closely correlated with indices 20Table Of Contentsdiscussed above. However, these commodity derivatives are designed to only mitigate Safety-Kleen’s exposure to declines in these oil indices below a price floor, and Safety-Kleen will not be protected and its profitability may be materially and negatively impacted by declines above the price floor. In addition, these commodity derivatives will limit Safety-Kleen’s potential benefit when these oil indices increase above a price cap because Safety-Kleen will be required to make payments in that circumstance. Furthermore, Safety-Kleen’s current commodity derivatives expire at various intervals, and there is no assurance that we will be able to enter into commodity derivatives in the future with acceptable terms.Environmental laws and regulations have adversely affected and may adversely affect Safety-Kleen's parts cleaning and other solvent related services.In connection with its parts cleaning and other solvent related services, Safety-Kleen has been subject to fines and certain orders requiring it to take environmental remedial action. In fiscal years 2012 and 2011, Safety-Kleen paid a total of approximately $365,000 and $190,000, respectively, for such fines, including fines arising in previous years. In 2009, Safety-Kleen recorded as an expense a $15.0 million settlement with the South Coast Air Quality Management District, or ‘‘SCAQMD,’’ in southern California and other regulatory agencies for alleged civil violations of SCAQMD Rule 1171, which prohibits the use of solvent, except for certain exempt uses, in the district. Safety-Kleen paid this settlement and is currently in compliance with SCAQMD Rule 1171. However, in the future, Safety-Kleen may be subject to monetary fines, civil or criminal penalties, remediation, cleanup or stop orders, injunctions, orders to cease or suspend certain practices or denial of permits required for the operation of its facilities. The outcome of any proceeding and associated costs and expenses could have a material adverse impact on Safety-Kleen’s financial condition and results of operations.Recent and potential changes in environmental laws and regulations may also adversely affect in the future Safety-Kleen's parts cleaning and other solvent related services. In particular, there has been a regulatory-driven shift away from solvents having higher volatile organic compounds, or ‘‘VOC,’’ as evidenced by the recent move of the Ozone Transport Commission representing several states to reduce the VOC limits for various products, including solvent used for parts cleaning or with paint-gun cleaning equipment. Interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations, or the adoption of new laws and regulations, may require Safety-Kleen to modify or curtail its operations or replace or upgrade its facilities or equipment at substantial costs, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers, and we may choose to indemnify our customers from any fines or penalties they may incur as a result of these new laws and regulations. On the other hand, in some cases if new laws and regulations are less stringent, Safety-Kleen’s customers or competitors may be able to manage waste more effectively themselves, which could decrease the need for Safety-Kleen’s services or increase competition, which could adversely affect Safety-Kleen’s results of operations.Safety-Kleen is subject to existing and potential product liability lawsuits.Safety-Kleen has been named as a defendant in various product liability lawsuits in various courts and jurisdictions throughout the United States from time to time. As of December 31, 2012, Safety-Kleen was involved in approximately 64 proceedings (including cases which have been settled but not formally dismissed) wherein persons claimed personal injury resulting from the use of its parts cleaning equipment or cleaning products. These proceedings typically involve allegations that the solvent used in Safety-Kleen’s parts cleaning equipment contains contaminants or that Safety-Kleen’s recycling process does not effectively remove the contaminants that become entrained in the solvent during their use. In addition, certain claimants assert that Safety-Kleen failed to warn adequately the product user of potential risks, including a historic failure to warn that solvent contains trace amounts of toxic or hazardous substances such as benzene. Although Safety-Kleen maintains insurance that we believe will provide coverage for these claims (over amounts accrued for self-insured retentions and deductibles in certain limited cases), this insurance may not provide coverage for potential awards of punitive damages against Safety-Kleen. Although Safety-Kleen vigorously defends itself and the safety of its products against all of these claims (and we intend to continue defending these claims), these matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable with assurance. Safety-Kleen may also be named in similar, additional lawsuits in the future, including claims for which insurance coverage may not be available. If one or more of these claims is decided unfavorably against Safety-Kleen and the plaintiffs are awarded punitive damages, or if the claim is one for which insurance coverage may not be available, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, if one or more of these claims were decided unfavorably against Safety-Kleen, such outcome may encourage even more lawsuits against us.Safety-Kleen is dependent on third parties for the manufacturing of the majority of its equipment.Safety-Kleen does not manufacture the majority of the equipment, including parts washers, that Safety-Kleen places at customer sites. Accordingly, Safety-Kleen relies on a limited number of third party suppliers for manufacturing this equipment. The supply of third party equipment could be interrupted or halted by a termination of Safety-Kleen’s relationships, a failure of quality control or other operational problems at such suppliers or a significant decline in their financial condition. If Safety-Kleen is not able to retain these providers or obtain its requests from these providers, Safety-Kleen may not be able to obtain 21Table Of Contentsalternate providers in a timely manner or on economically attractive terms, and as a result, Safety-Kleen may not be able to compete successfully for new business, complete existing engagements profitably or retain its existing customers. Additionally, if Safety-Kleen’s third party suppliers provide it with defective equipment, it may be subject to reputational damage or product liability claims which may negatively impact its reputation, financial condition and results of operations. Further, Safety-Kleen generally does not have long term contracts with its third party suppliers, and as a result these suppliers may increase the price of the equipment they provide to Safety-Kleen, which may hurt Safety-Kleen’s results of operations.Risks Relating to Our Level of Debt, Letters of Credit and Senior Unsecured NotesOur substantial levels of outstanding debt and letters of credit could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to fulfill our obligations.As of December 31, 2012, we had outstanding $1.4 billion of senior unsecured notes and $132.6 million of letters of credit (which total includes $46.0 million of back-up letters of credit we obtained under our revolving credit facility in connection with our December 28, 2012 acquisition of Safety-Kleen). Our substantial levels of outstanding debt and letters of credit may:•adversely impact our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes or to repurchase the notes from holders upon any change of control;•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of interest on our debt and fees on our letters of credit, which reduces the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;•subject us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases based upon variable interest rates, including borrowings (if any) under our revolving credit facility;•increase the possibility of an event of default under the financial and operating covenants contained in our debt instruments; and•limit our ability to adjust to rapidly changing market conditions, reduce our ability to withstand competitive pressures and make us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions of our business than our competitors with less debt.Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal or interest with respect to our debt, including our outstanding notes, any revolving loans and our capital leases, and to pay fee obligations with respect to our letters of credit, will depend on our ability to generate cash and on our future financial results. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and letter of credit fee obligations, we might be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt and letter of credit facilities or to obtain new or additional such facilities. However, we might not be able to obtain any such new or additional facilities on favorable terms or at all.Despite our substantial levels of outstanding debt and letters of credit, we could incur substantially more debt and letter of credit obligations in the future. Although our revolving credit agreement and the indentures governing the notes contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness (including, for this purpose, reimbursement obligations under outstanding letters of credit), these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and the additional amount of indebtedness which we might incur in the future in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. In particular, we had available at December 31, 2012 up to an additional approximately $117.4 million for purposes of additional borrowings and letters of credit, and on January 17, 2013 we increased our $250.0 million revolving credit facility to a $400.0 million revolving credit facility, thereby increasing our approximately $117.4 million of availability at December 31, 2012 to approximately $267.4 million. The revolving credit agreement and the indentures governing our outstanding notes also allow us to borrow significant amounts of money from other sources. These restrictions would also not prevent us from incurring obligations (such as operating leases) that do not constitute “indebtedness” as defined in the relevant agreements. To the extent we incur in the future additional debt and letter of credit obligations, the related risks will increase.22Table Of ContentsThe covenants in our debt agreements restrict our ability to operate our business and might lead to a default under our debt agreements.Our revolving credit agreement and the indentures governing our outstanding notes limit, among other things, our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to:•incur or guarantee additional indebtedness (including, for this purpose, reimbursement obligations under letters of credit) or issue preferred stock;•pay dividends or make other distributions to our stockholders;•purchase or redeem capital stock or subordinated indebtedness;•make investments;•create liens;•incur restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us;•sell assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries;•consolidate or merge with or into other companies or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and•engage in transactions with affiliates.As a result of these covenants, we may not be able to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us. Our revolving credit facility requires, and our future credit facilities may require, us to maintain certain financial ratios and satisfy certain other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet these financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet those tests. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our revolving credit facility or future credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under such credit facilities, including accrued interest or other obligations, to be immediately due and payable. If amounts outstanding under such credit facilities were to be accelerated, our assets might not be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and our other indebtedness, including the notes.Our revolving credit agreement and the indentures governing our outstanding notes also contain cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions. Under these provisions, a default or acceleration under one instrument governing our debt may constitute a default under our other debt instruments that contain cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions, which could result in the related debt and the debt issued under such other instruments becoming immediately due and payable. In such event, we would need to raise funds from alternative sources, which funds might not be available to us on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. Alternatively, such a default could require us to sell assets and otherwise curtail operations to pay our creditors. The proceeds of such a sale of assets, or curtailment of operations, might not enable us to pay all of our liabilities.Other Risks Relating to Our Common StockThe Massachusetts Business Corporation Act and our By-Laws contain certain anti-takeover provisions.Sections 8.06 and 7.02 of the Massachusetts Business Corporation Act provide that Massachusetts corporations which are publicly-held must have a staggered board of directors and that written demand by holders of at least 40% of the outstanding shares of each relevant voting group of stockholders is required for stockholders to call a special meeting unless such corporations take certain actions to affirmatively "opt-out" of such requirements. In accordance with these provisions, our By-Laws provide for a staggered Board of Directors which consists of three classes of directors of which one class is elected each year for a three-year term, and require that written application by holders of at least 25% (which is less than the 40% which would otherwise be applicable without such a specific provision in our By-Laws) of our outstanding shares of common stock is required for stockholders to call a special meeting. In addition, our By-Laws prohibit the removal by the stockholders of a director except for cause. These provisions could inhibit a takeover of our Company by restricting stockholders' action to replace the existing directors or approve other actions which a party seeking to acquire us might propose. A takeover transaction would frequently afford stockholders an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over then market prices.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNot applicable.