ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this prospectus before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. The following risks comprise all the material risks of which we are aware; however, these risks and uncertainties may not be the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business or financial performance. If any of the events or developments described below actually occurred, our business, financial condition or results of operation would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline, and you would lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We have many competitors and expect new competitors to enter our market, which could adversely affect our ability to increase net sales, maintain our margins or grow our market share. The market for our products and services is extremely competitive and the barriers to entry in our market are relatively low. We cannot be sure that we will have the resources or expertise to compete successfully in the future. Our competitors may be able to: develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly; adapt to new or emerging technologies and changing customer needs more quickly; negotiate more favorable purchase agreements with suppliers; devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products; and address customers' service-related issues more effectively. Some of our competitors may also be able to provide customers with additional benefits at lower overall costs or to reduce their charges aggressively in an effort to increase market share. We cannot be sure that we will be able to match cost reductions by our competitors. Our operating results may fluctuate due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our annual and quarterly operating results are affected by a number of factors, including: the level and timing of customer orders and related customer acceptances, especially relating to our OnDemand Systems; the composition of the costs of revenue between materials, labor and manufacturing overhead; our level of experience in manufacturing a particular product; fluctuations in materials costs and availability of materials; and the timing of expenditures in anticipation of increased sales and customer product delivery requirements; and adverse changes in general economic conditions. 5 Table of Contents The volume and timing of orders placed by our customers vary due to variation in demand for our products, new product introductions and consolidations among our customers. In the past, changes in customer orders have had a significant effect on our results of operations due to corresponding changes in the level of overhead absorption. Any one or a combination of these factors could adversely affect our annual and quarterly results of operations in the future. We depend on a limited number of customers for our net sales, therefore, a reduction in sales to any one of our customers could cause a significant decline in our net sales. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 52% of our net sales, and our two largest customers accounted for approximately 32% of our net sales. We are dependent upon the continued growth, viability and financial stability of our customers whose industries have experienced consolidation and pricing and regulatory pressures. We expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our net sales. Consolidation among our customers may further reduce the number of customers that generate a significant percentage of our net sales and exposes us to increased risks relating to dependence on a small number of customers. A significant reduction in sales to any of our customers or a customer exerting significant pricing and margin pressures on us, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A substantial portion of our revenue is from the sales of products and provision of services to customers outside the U.S. Thus, we may be subject to certain risks related to international sales and operations. Sales of products and the provision of services to customers outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 17% of our consolidated revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. We anticipate that international sales and services will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue in the foreseeable future. As a result, we may be subject to certain risks, including risks associated with the application and imposition of protective legislation and regulations relating to import or export or otherwise resulting from trade or foreign policy and risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations. Additional risks include potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs, quotas and other barriers, potential difficulties involving our strategic alliances and managing foreign sales agents or representatives and potential difficulties in accounts receivable collection. We depend on a small number of suppliers for the raw materials used in the production of our products. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for the raw materials that are essential in the production of our products. We cannot be assured that such suppliers will be able to meet our future demand for raw materials, or that shortages of these raw materials will not arise in the future. We also rely on third parties to manufacture some of our packaging equipment. The failure of such suppliers or third parties to deliver such raw materials or packaging equipment on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving process development. The continued success of our business will depend upon our ability to: hire, retain and expand our qualified technical personnel; maintain technological leadership; develop and market products that meet changing customer needs; and successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes in manufacturing processes on a cost-effective and timely basis. 6 Table of Contents Although we believe that our operations use the assembly and testing technologies, equipment and processes that are currently required by our customers, we cannot be certain that we will develop the capabilities required by our customers in the future. The emergence of new technology industry standards or customer requirements may render our equipment, inventory or processes obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, we may have to acquire new assembly and testing technologies and equipment to remain competitive. The acquisition and implementation of new technologies and equipment may require significant expense or capital investment, which could reduce our operating margins and our operating results. Our failure to anticipate and adapt to our customers’ changing technological needs and requirements could have an adverse effect on our business. We manufacture a majority of our products from a single facility, while also utilizing third parties to manufacture some products. We manufacture most of the products we sell, but we also use third parties to manufacture packaging equipment. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of our manufacturing facility or the facilities of third parties, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility or other reasons, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In this regard, our principal manufacturing facility is located in St. Petersburg, Florida and is thus exposed to the risks of damage from certain weather conditions including, without limitation: hurricanes; windstorms; and floods. If our facilities were to be out of production for an extended period, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We rely on short-term contracts with most of our clients. Long-term contracts are usually not a significant part of our business. Accordingly, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results. However, in May 2007, we entered into an agreement with Omnicare, our largest customer to sell 24 OnDemand machines over an 18 month period. Our agreement with Omnicare contains terms that could result in penalties if certain events occur. The restrictions and obligations in our agreement limit our flexibility in selling certain products, which could have an adverse effect on our operations and growth and the machines sold pursuant to that agreement are subject to certain acceptance criteria, which may not be achieved. Our operating results and/or financial condition may be adversely affected if we undertake acquisitions of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate. We expect to continue to implement our growth strategy, in part, by acquiring companies. At any particular time, we may be in various stages of assessment, discussion and negotiation with regard to one or more potential acquisitions, not all of which will be consummated. We make public disclosure of pending and completed acquisitions when appropriate and required by applicable securities laws and regulations. Acquisitions involve numerous risks and uncertainties. If we complete one or more acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: the failure of the acquired businesses to achieve the results we have projected in either the near or long term; the assumption of unknown liabilities; the difficulties of imposing adequate financial and operating controls on the acquired companies and their management and the potential liabilities that might arise pending the imposition of adequate controls; the difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies; and the failure to achieve the strategic objectives of these acquisitions. 7 Table of Contents Our operating results and/or financial condition may be adversely affected by foreign operations. We acquired a distributor of consumable packages in Germany, and expect to consider additional foreign acquisitions in the future. Our existing foreign operations and any operations we may acquire in the future carry risks in addition to the risks of acquisition, as described above. At any particular time, foreign operations may encounter risks and uncertainties regarding the governmental, political, economic, business and competitive environment within the countries in which those operations are based. Additionally, foreign operations expose us to foreign currency fluctuations that could impact our results of operations and financial condition based on the movements of the applicable foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. Dollar. Our success depends upon retaining the services of our management team. We are highly dependent on our management team. We expect that our continued success will largely depend upon the efforts and abilities of members of our management team. The loss of the services of any of our key executives for any reason could have a material adverse effect upon us. Our success also depends upon our ability to identify, develop and retain qualified management, professionals and technical operating staff. We expend significant resources in recruiting and training our employees, and the pool of available applicants for these positions is limited. The loss of the services of any key executives, or our inability to continue to attract and retain qualified staff, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of the products we manufacture and sell results in personal injury. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of the products we manufacture and sell results in personal injury. Although we have not experienced any losses due to product liability claims, we cannot be assured that we will not experience such losses in the future. We maintain insurance against product liability claims, but we cannot be certain that such coverage will be adequate to cover any liabilities that we may incur, or that such insurance will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, would adversely affect our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business and prospects may be harmed. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent upon the proprietary nature of the designs, processes, technologies and materials owned by, used by or licensed to us. Although we attempt to protect our proprietary property, technologies and processes both in the U.S. and in foreign countries through a combination of patent law, trade secrets and non-disclosure agreements, these may be insufficient. In addition, because of the differences in foreign patent and other laws concerning proprietary rights, our products may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the U.S. Intellectual property claims and litigation could subject us to significant liabilities for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. In the future we may have to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights to protect our trade secrets or to develop the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Any litigation, regardless of its success, would be costly and require significant time and attention of our key management and technical personnel. The litigation could also force us to: stop or delay selling, incorporating or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; pay damages; enter into licensing or royalty agreements, which may be unavailable under acceptable terms; and redesign products and services that incorporate infringing technology. 8 Table of Contents We may face infringement claims from third parties in the future. The medical packaging industry has seen frequent litigation over intellectual property rights, and we expect that participants in the medical packaging industry will be increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of products, services and competitors grow and functionality of the products and services overlap. We cannot be assured that the steps taken by us will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary rights or that third parties will not independently develop substantially similar products, services and technology. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our products will not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. We may not be able to avoid infringement of third party intellectual property rights and may have to obtain a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the third-party intellectual property rights in court. Failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights of our products, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on us. We are dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems in operating our business. Our information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards and we have backup remote processing capabilities. However, they are still vulnerable to hurricanes, other storms, flood, fire, terrorist acts, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins, computer viruses and similar events. If our critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, we would have to accomplish these functions manually, which could temporarily impact our ability to identify business opportunities quickly and to bill for services efficiently. In addition, we depend on third party vendors for certain functions whose future performance and reliability cannot be assured. We may be adversely affected by governmental regulation of our business. Our business is subject to federal regulation concerning components of packaging materials that are in contact with food and drugs. While we have had no material difficulty complying with such regulations in the past, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain all necessary approvals or that the cost of compliance will not prove to be material. Additionally, we cannot be assured that significant changes in such regulations will not occur in the future. Our inability to comply with the current regulations and any future changes to such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our customers are subject to governmental regulations and procedures and other legal requirements. A significant change in, or noncompliance with, these regulations, procedures and requirements could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. The retail drug store and pharmacy benefit services businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations. Consequently, our customers are subject to the risk of changes in various federal, state and local laws, which include, but are not limited to: federal, state and local registration and regulation of pharmacies; applicable Medicare and Medicaid regulations; the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act; regulations of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the Drug Enforcement Administration, and the Consumer Product Safety Commission, as well as state regulatory authorities, governing the sale, advertisement and promotion of products they sell; anti-kickback laws; and federal and state laws governing the practice of the profession of pharmacy. Changes in these regulations may require extensive system and operating changes that may be difficult for our customers to implement. Untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations by our customers could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect the continued operation of their businesses and may substantially increase the costs and burden of pharmaceutical distribution, which could decrease the demand for our products and services. 9 Table of Contents The changing U.S. healthcare environment may negatively impact our revenue and income. Our products and services are intended to function within the structure of the healthcare financing and reimbursement system currently existing in the U.S. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government spending. These changes include an increased reliance on managed care; cuts in Medicare funding affecting our healthcare provider customer base; consolidation of competitors, suppliers and customers; and the development of large, sophisticated purchasing groups. We expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these potential changes, such as a reduction in governmental support of healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription drug pricing, healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare industry participants to reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. Changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers’ pricing or distribution policies could also significantly reduce our income. Our credit facility has restrictive terms and our failure to comply with any of these terms could put us in default, which would have an adverse effect on our business and prospects. Our credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and comply with certain restrictive covenants. Our ability to meet these financial ratios and satisfy these restrictive covenants and tests may be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of the restrictive covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios would result in a default under our credit facility or require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness. Our credit facility is secured by all of our assets, and accordingly, in the event of default the lender has the right to take possession of any such assets. We are a holding company and we depend on receiving distributions from our subsidiaries, and we could be harmed if such distributions could not be made in the future. We are a holding company with no direct operations and conduct all of our business through our subsidiaries. Our principal assets are the equity interests we hold in our operating subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent on the cash flow of our subsidiaries and dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations, including the payment of any current and future indebtedness obligations we may have. Adverse results in tax audits could result in significant cash expenditures or exposure to unforeseen liabilities. We are subject to periodic federal, state and local income and foreign income tax audits for various tax years. Although we attempt to comply with all taxing authority regulations, adverse findings or assessments made by the taxing authorities as the result of an audit would adversely affect us. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have not declared or paid any dividends on our common stock to date and we do not anticipate declaring or paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to reinvest all future earnings in the growth of our business. Any future determination relating to our dividend policy will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements, business opportunities, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant. To the extent we do not pay dividends on our common stock, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in our common stock. 10 Table of Contents The price of our common stock price may be volatile. Our common stock is traded on the American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”), under the symbol “MPP”. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and could fluctuate substantially in the future, based on a variety of factors, including our operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy, the financial markets or other developments affecting us, our clients or our competitors, some of which may be unrelated to our performance. Those fluctuations and demand for our services may adversely affect the price of our stock. It is possible that the stock price may decline to a level where we lose our eligibility to remain listed on AMEX. In addition, the stock market, in general, has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of public companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. Among other things, volatility in our stock price could mean that investors will not be able to sell their shares at or above prices at which they are acquired. The volatility also could impair our ability in the future to offer common stock as a source of additional capital. Our directors, officers and their respective affiliates will continue to have substantial influence over our affairs, which could limit your ability to influence key transactions, including a change in control. Our directors, officers and their respective affiliates beneficially own in the aggregate approximately 34% of our outstanding common stock. Consequently, these stockholders have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders. These stockholders may be able to influence the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, as well as other matters. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination. Our management includes members of a single family. Michael P. Conroy serves as our Chief Financial Officer and his son, James M. Conroy, serves as our Controller. Because of the family relationship among these members of our management, certain employer/employee matters may not be conducted on a fully arms-length basis as would be the case if the family relationship did not exist. However, independent directors unrelated to the Conroy family comprise our Compensation Committee and Audit Committee and we expect that compensation and other significant employer/employee issues, including performance evaluations and compensation reviews, will be conducted on a fully arms-length basis as would be the case if the family relationship did not exist. Any future issuance of our preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock. Our board of directors has the authority to issue shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. In addition, our board also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of shares of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences upon liquidation or dissolution. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our affairs, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock as a result of the conversion or exercise of currently outstanding derivative securities may cause our stock price to decline. As of March 31, 2008, we had 6,444,005 shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, the following shares of our common stock are issuable upon exercise or conversion of currently outstanding securities: 11 Table of Contents 625,250 shares of common stock are issuable upon exercise of currently outstanding common stock purchase options having exercise prices ranging from $1.45 to $13.70; and 5,900 shares of common stock are issuable upon exercise of currently outstanding common stock purchase warrants having an exercise price of $1.88. The possibility of exercise or conversion of these securities and the inclusion of the underlying shares of common stock in the issued and outstanding shares may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and applicable provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law could deter a change in our management or render more difficult an attempt to obtain control of our company, even if such a proposal is favored by a majority of our stockholders. These provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. For example, Delaware law prohibit us from engaging in a broad range of business combinations with any “interested stockholder,” meaning generally that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 15% of our common stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date this person became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors. Finally, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation includes undesignated preferred stock, which may enable our board to discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a tender offer, proxy contest, merger or otherwise. Our business will suffer if we fail to comply with federal regulations and rules of the SEC relating to corporate governance reform. As a public company, we are subject to certain federal regulations and the rules and regulations of the SEC. The SEC has also adopted rules pertaining to, among other things, audit committee requirements and additional disclosure and reporting requirements. Our reputation and financial results could be materially harmed by any failure by us to comply with any current or future rules or regulations relating federal corporate reform measures adopted by the SEC. In addition, we incur significant legal, accounting and other compliance costs. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysis publish about us, our business or our market. If one or more of the analysts who cover us change their recommendation regarding our stock adversely, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose viability in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 12 Table of Contents 