Risk Factors You should be aware that the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones affecting us or that could affect us in the future. Any of the risks and uncertainties described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and could result in a partial or complete loss of your investment. We have many competitors and expect new competitors to enter our market, which could adversely affect our ability to increase net sales, maintain our margins or grow our market share. The market for our services is extremely competitive and the barriers to entry in our market are relatively low. We cannot be sure that we will have the resources or expertise to compete successfully in the future. Our competitors may be able to: develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly; adapt to new or emerging technologies and changing customer needs more quickly; negotiate more favorable purchases agreements with suppliers; devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products; and address customers’ service-related issues more effectively. Some of our competitors may also be able to provide customers with additional benefits at lower overall costs or to reduce their charges aggressively in an effort to increase market share. We cannot be sure that we will be able to match cost reductions by our competitors. Our operating results may fluctuate due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our annual and quarterly operating results are affected by a number of factors, including: adverse changes in general economic conditions; the level and timing of customer orders; the composition of the costs of revenue between materials, labor and manufacturing overhead; our level of experience in manufacturing a particular product; fluctuations in materials costs and availability of materials; and the timing of expenditures in anticipation of increased sales and customer product delivery requirements. The volume and timing of orders placed by our customers vary due to variation in demand for our products, new product introductions and consolidations among our customers. In the past, changes in customer orders have had a significant effect on our results of operations due to corresponding changes in the level of overhead absorption. Any one or a combination of these factors could adversely affect our annual and quarterly results of operations in the future. 4 Table of Contents We depend on a limited number of customers for our net sales, therefore, a reduction in sales to any one of our customers could cause a significant decline in our net sales. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005, our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 59% of our net sales and our three largest customers, Omnicare®, PharMerica and McKesson accounted for approximately 33% of our net sales. We are dependent upon the continued growth, viability and financial stability of our customers whose industries have experienced consolidation, pricing and regulatory pressures. We expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our net sales. Consolidation among our customers may further reduce the number of customers that generate a significant percentage of our net sales and exposes us to increased risks relating to dependence on a small number of customers. A significant reduction in sales to any of our customers or a customer exerting significant pricing and margin pressures on us, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We depend on a small number of suppliers for the raw materials used in the production of our products. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for the raw materials that are essential in the production of the products we produce. We cannot assure you that such suppliers will be able to meet our future demand for raw materials, or that shortages of these raw materials will not arise in the future. The failure of such suppliers to deliver such raw materials on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving process development. The continued success of our business will depend upon our ability to: hire, retain and expand our qualified technical personnel; maintain technological leadership; develop and market products that meet changing customer needs; and successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes in manufacturing processes on a cost-effective and timely basis. Although we believe that our operations use the assembly and testing technologies, equipment and processes that are currently required by our customers, we cannot be certain that we will develop the capabilities required by our customers in the future. The emergence of new technology industry standards or customer requirements may render our equipment, inventory or processes obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, we may have to acquire new assembly and testing technologies and equipment to remain competitive. The acquisition and implementation of new technologies and equipment may require significant expense or capital investment, which could reduce our operating margins and our operating results. Our failure to anticipate and adapt to our customers’ changing technological needs and requirements could have an adverse effect on our business. We manufacture substantially all of our products from a single facility. We manufacture substantially of the products we sell. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of our manufacturing facility, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In this regard, our principal manufacturing facility is located in St. Petersburg, Florida and is thus exposed to the risks of damage from certain weather conditions including, without limitation: hurricanes, windstorms, and floods. If our facilities were to be out of production for an extended period, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. We rely on short-term contracts with most of our clients. Long-term contracts are not a significant part of our business. Accordingly, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results. 5 Table of Contents We are dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems in operating our business. Our information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards and we have backup remote processing capabilities. They are still vulnerable, however, to hurricanes, other storms, flood, fire, terrorist acts, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins, computer viruses and similar events. If our critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, we would have to accomplish these functions manually, which could temporarily impact our ability to identify business opportunities quickly and to bill for services efficiently. In addition, we depend on third party vendors for certain functions whose future performance and reliability we cannot ensure. Our success depends upon retaining the services of our management team. We are highly dependent on our management team. We expect that our continued success will largely depend upon the efforts and abilities of members of our management team. The loss of the services of any of our key executives for any reason could have a material adverse effect upon us. Our success also depends upon our ability to identify, develop, and retain qualified management, professionals and technical operating staff. We expend significant resources in recruiting and training our employees, and the pool of available applicants for these positions is limited. The loss of the services of any key executives, or our inability to continue to attract and retain qualified staff, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Adverse results in tax audits could result in significant cash expenditures or exposure to unforeseen liabilities. We are subject to periodic federal, state and local income tax audits for various tax years. Although we attempt to comply with all taxing authority regulations, adverse findings or assessments made by the taxing authorities as the result of an audit could materially adversely affect us. We are a holding company and we depend on receiving distributions from our subsidiaries, and we could be harmed if such distributions could not be made in the future. We are a holding company with essentially no operations of our own and conduct all of our business through our subsidiaries. Our only significant asset is the outstanding capital stock of our subsidiaries. We are wholly dependent on the cash flow of our subsidiaries and dividends and distributions to us from our subsidiaries in order to service any current and future indebtedness obligations we may have. We are prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate declaring or paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. The terms of our loan agreements prohibit us from paying dividends on our common stock. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock as a result of the conversion or exercise of currently outstanding derivative securities may cause our stock price to decline. As of March 31, 2005, we had 5,836,220 shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, the following shares of our common stock are issuable upon exercise or conversion of currently outstanding securities: 1,092,800 shares of common stock are issuable upon exercise of currently outstanding common stock purchase options having exercise prices ranging from $0.48 to $15.00; 29,500 shares of common stock are issuable upon exercise of currently outstanding common stock purchase warrants having an exercise price of $1.88; and 847,457 shares of common stock are issuable upon conversion of 2,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Series A Preferred Stock”), having an exercise price of $2.36. The possibility of exercise or conversion of these securities and the inclusion of the underlying shares of common stock in the issued and outstanding shares may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 6 Table of Contents If we must make certain payments of certain amounts to Eureka I, L.P., such payments could have a material effect on our financial condition and could cause our stock price to decline. The terms of our Series A Preferred Stock issued to Eureka I, L.P., contain certain anti-dilution provisions and a make-whole provision that obligates us to pay certain amounts to the holder of the Series A Preferred Stock if such holder does not ultimately receive an amount equal to the price per share of the common stock on the date they exercise their right to purchase the common shares that underlie the Series A Preferred Stock. In the event that we are required to make payments to the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, we may elect to issue additional preferred stock in lieu of a cash payment. The make-whole provision and other provisions of the convertible preferred stock agreement provide for a maximum of 12,500,000 shares that may be issued pursuant to those provisions. We may be adversely affected by governmental regulation of our business. Our business is subject to federal regulation concerning components of packaging materials that are in contact with food and drugs. While we have had no material difficulty complying with such regulations in the past, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain all necessary approvals or that the cost of compliance will not prove to be material. Additionally, we cannot assure you that significant changes in such regulations will not occur in the foreseeable future. Our inability to comply with the current regulations and any future changes to such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of the products we manufacture and sell results in personal injury. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of the products we manufacture and sell results in personal injury. Although we have not experienced any losses due to product liability claims, we cannot assure you that we will not experience such losses in the future. We maintain insurance against product liability claims, but we cannot be certain that such coverage will be adequate to cover any liabilities that we may incur, or that such insurance will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could harm our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business and prospects may be harmed. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent upon the proprietary nature of the designs, processes, technologies and materials owned by, used by or licensed to us. Although we attempt to protect our proprietary property, technologies and processes both in the United States and in foreign countries through a combination of patent law, trade secrets and non-disclosure agreements, these may be insufficient. In addition, because of the differences in foreign patent and other laws concerning proprietary rights, our products may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the United States. Intellectual property claims and litigation could subject us to significant liabilities for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. In the future we may have to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights to protect our trade secrets or to develop the validity and scope of our proprietary rights of others. Any litigation, regardless of its success, would be costly and require significant time and attention of our key management and technical personnel. The litigation could also force us to: stop or delay selling, incorporating or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; pay damages; enter into licensing or royalty agreements, which may be unavailable under acceptable terms; and redesign products and services that incorporate infringing technology. 7 Table of Contents We may face infringement claims from third parties in the future. The medical packaging industry has seen frequent litigation over intellectual property rights, and we expect that participants in the medical packaging industry will be increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of products, services, and competitors grow and functionality of the products and services overlap. We cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary rights or that third parties will not independently develop substantially similar products, services and technology. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our products will not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. We may not be able to avoid infringement of third party intellectual property rights and may have to obtain a license, defend an infringement action, or challenge the validity of the intellectual property rights in court. Failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights of our products, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business will suffer if we fail to comply with recent federal regulations and proposed rules of the SEC relating to corporate governance reform. As a public company, we are subject to certain federal regulations and the rules and regulations of the SEC. On July 30, 2002, President George W. Bush signed into law the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, effecting tighter accounting, corporate fraud and securities laws. To implement this legislation, the SEC has adopted new rules pertaining to, among other things, audit committee requirements and additional disclosure and reporting requirements. Our reputation and financial results could be materially harmed by any failure by us to comply with any current or future rules or regulations relating to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or to any other federal corporate reform measures. Our stock price may be volatile. Our common stock is traded on the American Stock Exchange under the symbol “MPP”. The market price of our stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and could fluctuate substantially in the future, based on a variety of factors, including our operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy, the financial markets, or other developments affecting us, our clients, or our competitors, some of which may be unrelated to our performance. Those fluctuations and demand for our services may adversely affect the price of our stock. It is possible that the stock price may decline to a level where we lose our eligibility to remain listed on the American Stock Exchange. In addition, the stock market, in general, has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of public companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. Among other things, volatility in our stock price could mean that investors will not be able to sell their shares at or above prices at which they are acquired. The volatility also could impair our ability in the future to offer common stock as a source of additional capital. Our stockholders do not have cumulative voting rights. The holders of our capital stock do not have cumulative voting rights. Accordingly, the holders of more than 50% of our outstanding shares entitled to vote for the election of directors can elect all of our directors then being elected; the holders of the remaining shares by themselves cannot elect any directors. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and the applicable Delaware General Corporation law may make it more difficult to complete a contested takeover of our Company. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”) could deter a change in our management or render more difficult an attempt to obtain control of us, even if such a proposal is favored by a majority of our stockholders. For example, we are subject to the provisions of the DGCL that prohibit a public Delaware corporation from engaging in a broad range of business combinations with a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting shares (an “interested shareholder”) for three years after the person became an interested shareholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Finally, our certificate of incorporation includes undesignated preferred stock, which may enable our Board of Directors to discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a tender offer, proxy contest, merger or otherwise. 8 Table of Contents Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect any market on which our shares trade, the markets in which we operate, our operations and our profitability. Terrorist acts or acts of war or armed conflict could negatively affect our operations in a number of ways. Primarily, any of these acts could result in increased volatility in or damage to the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. They could also result in a continuation of the current economic uncertainty in the United States and abroad. Acts of terrorism or armed conflict, and the uncertainty caused by such conflicts, could cause an overall reduction in sales of our products and the corresponding shipments of our products. This would have a corresponding negative effect on our operations. Also, terrorist activities similar to the type experienced on September 11, 2001 could result in another halt of trading of securities on the American Stock Exchange, which could also have an adverse affect on the trading price of our shares and overall market capitalization. 