ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. Any of the risks discussed below could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or operating results If our productse do not achieve widespread market acceptance in the United States, our operating results will be harmed and we may not achieve profitability. Our success will depend, in large part, on the medical community’s acceptance of ATS’ principal products in the United States, which is the largest revenue market in the world for medical devices. The U.S. medical community’s acceptance of ATS’ products will depend upon our ability to demonstrate the safety and efficacy, advantages, long-term clinical performance and cost-effectiveness of ATS’ products as compared to other products. We cannot predict whether the U.S. medical community will accept ATS’ products or, if accepted, the extent of its use. Negative publicity resulting from isolated incidents involving ATS’ products or other products related to those we sell could have a significant adverse effect on the overall acceptance of our heart valve. If we encounter difficulties developing a market for our products in the United States, we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to achieve profitability, and our business and operating results will be seriously harmed. We currently rely on the ATS mechanical heart valve as our primary source of revenue. If we are not successful in selling this product, our operating results will be harmed. Since 2005 we have marketed products other than mechanical heart valves. These products represented approximately 28% of net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. However, there can be no assurance that these new products will decrease our dependence on sales of mechanical heart valves. Increasing revenues from new products cannot be guaranteed. Even if we were to develop additional products, regulatory approval would likely be required to sell them. Clinical testing and the approval process itself are very expensive and can take many years. Adverse rulings by regulatory authorities, product liability lawsuits, the failure to achieve widespread U.S. market acceptance, the loss of market acceptance outside of the United States, or other adverse publicity may significantly and adversely affect our sales of the ATS heart valve, and, as a result, would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The anticipated benefits associated with our recent acquisitions may not be realized. We completed the acquisition of 3F in September 2006 and the acquisition of the surgical cryoablation business of CryoCath in June 2007. We expect that these acquisitions will result in several benefits, including, among others, an expanded heart value product line in connection with the acquisition of the tissue heart valve business of 3F, an enhanced owned product portfolio and opportunity to leverage our revenues and margins under our pre-existing distribution and agent agreements in connection with the CryoCath acquisition, and cross-selling opportunities, enhanced technology, cost savings and operating efficiencies in connection with both acquisitions. However, achieving the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether 3F’s development-stage products are ultimately marketable, whether we can commercialize the acquired CryoCath development project related to treatment of arrhythmias on a stand-alone minimally invasive basis, whether we are able to gain regulatory approvals to commercialize products manufactured within our own facility, whether we are able to integrate the businesses in an efficient and effective manner and general competitive factors in the marketplace. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions could result in decreases in the amount of expected revenues, increased costs and diversion of management’s time and energy, and could materially impact our business, financial condition and operating results. We may have difficulty integrating recently acquired businesses and may incur substantial costs in connection with the integration process. Integrating the operations of 3F and the surgical cryoablation business of CryoCath into our existing business will be a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. Before these acquisitions, ATS and 3F, as well as the surgical cryoablation assets of CryoCath, were operated independently, each with its own products, customers, employees, culture and systems. We may experience material unanticipated difficulties or expenses in connection with the integration of these acquired businesses into ATS due to various factors, including: • our current lack of expertise and experience in manufacturing the CryoCath products because we did not acquire any employees from CryoCath in connection with the acquisition of the surgical cryoablation business of CryoCath; 13 Table of Contents • costs and delays in implementing manufacturing systems and procedures in connection with the acquisition of the CryoCath assets; • difficulties in transitioning manufacturing from the CryoCath facilities into our corporate facility; • difficulties retaining and integrating management and other key employees of 3F in connection with the 3F acquisition; • challenges associated with integrating the acquired business’s products and operations into our facility and business; • diversion of management resources from the business of the combined company and integration activities; • reduction or loss of customer sales due to the potential for market confusion, hesitation and delay; and • difficulty in combining distribution arrangements for the combined company’s products and services. We have limited experience in integrating operations on the scale represented by these acquisitions, and it is not certain that we can successfully integrate the acquired businesses in a timely or efficient manner, or at all, or that any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions will be realized. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, many of the factors listed above are outside our control. The time and expense associated with converting the businesses into a single, combined company may exceed management’s expectations and limit or delay the intended benefits of the transaction. To the extent any of these events occur, the benefits of the transaction may be reduced, at least for a period of time. In addition, it is possible that unexpected transaction costs, such as taxes, fees or professional expenses, or unexpected future operating expenses, such as increased personnel costs, as well as other types of unanticipated adverse developments, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In 2002, we began using a combination of direct sales persons and independent manufacturing representatives to sell our products in the United States. If our U.S. sales strategy is not successful, we will not be able to continue our operations as planned. The sales approach for the sale of our products in the United States consists primarily of direct salespersons with a few independent manufacturers’ representatives. We will need to continue to expend significant funds and management resources to develop and maintain this hybrid sales force. We believe that there is significant competition for sales personnel and independent manufacturing representatives with the advanced sales skills and technical knowledge we need. If we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate qualified personnel and representatives, U.S. sales of our products could be adversely affected. The loss of key salespersons or independent manufacturer’s representatives could have a material adverse effect on our sales or potential sales to current customers and prospects serviced by such salespersons or representatives. Further, we cannot assure the successful expansion of our network of independent manufacturer’s representatives on terms acceptable to ATS, if at all, or the successful marketing of our products by our hybrid sales force. To the extent we rely on sales through independent manufacturer’s representatives, any revenues we receive will depend primarily on the efforts of these parties. We do not control the amount and timing of marketing resources that these third parties devote to our product. If our U.S. sales strategy is not successful, we may be forced to change our U.S. sales strategy again. Any such change could disrupt sales in the United States. Further, any change in our U.S. sales strategy could be expensive and would likely have a material adverse impact on our operating results. We currently depend on the marketing and sales efforts of international independent distributors. Our products are sold internationally through independent distributors. The loss of an international distributor could seriously harm our business and operating results if a new distributor could not be found on a timely basis in the relevant geographic market. We do not control the amount and timing of marketing resources that these third parties devote to our product. Furthermore, to the extent we rely on sales through independent distributors, any revenues we receive will depend primarily on the efforts of these parties. 14 Table of Contents We are dependent upon sales outside the United States, which are subject to a number of risks including a drop in sales due to currency fluctuations. In 2007, approximately 62% of our net sales were derived outside of the United States. We expect that international sales will account for a substantial majority of our revenue until our products receive wider market acceptance from U.S. customers and until 3F obtains pre-market approval to sell its 3F Aortic Bioprosthesis or other products in the United States. Accordingly, any material decrease in foreign sales may materially and adversely affect our operating results. We sell in U.S. dollars to most of our customers abroad. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to other currencies can and has adversely affected our sales outside of the United States. In prior years, the decrease in sales was due primarily to the change in the value of the U.S. dollar against the Euro, as well as competitor price pressure. Our dependence on sales outside of the United States will continue to expose us to U.S. dollar currency fluctuations for the foreseeable future. Our future operating results could also be harmed by risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: • unforeseen changes in regulatory requirements and government health programs; • weaker intellectual property rights protection in some countries; • new export license requirements, changes in tariffs or trade restrictions; • political and economic instability in our target markets; • greater difficulty in collecting payments from product sales; and • lengthy/extended credit terms. We have a history of net losses. If we do not have net income in the future, we may be unable to continue our operations. We are not currently profitable and have a very limited history of profitability. We had net losses of approximately $14.4 million for 2005, $27.7 million for 2006 and $23.0 million for 2007. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $132.6 million. We expect to incur significant expenses over the next several years as we continue to devote substantial resources to the commercialization and marketing of the ATS heart valve in the United States. We will not generate net income unless we are able to significantly increase revenue from U.S. sales. If we continue to sustain losses, we may not be able to continue our business as planned. In addition, if the benefits of the merger with 3F and our acquisition of the surgical cryoablation assets of CryoCath do not exceed the associated costs, the combined company could be adversely affected by incurring additional or even increased losses from its operations. Our ability to succeed after the merger with 3F and the acquisition of the surgical cryoablation assets of CryoCath depends on making our combined operations profitable through increased revenue and reduced expenses for the combined company. If we fail to make our combined operations profitable through increased revenue and decreased expenses, it would harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Purchase accounting treatment of the merger with 3F and acquisition of the surgical cryoablation assets of CryoCath could result in net losses for the foreseeable future. We have accounted for the merger with 3F and purchase of the surgical cryoablation assets of CryoCath using the purchase method of accounting. For the 3F acquisition, the estimated market value of shares of our common stock issued in the merger and the amount of the merger transaction costs were recorded as the cost of acquiring 3F. For the acquisition of the surgical cryoablation assets of CryoCath, the initial purchase price recorded was equal to the initial cash consideration paid to CryoCath, plus the amount of transaction costs and the present value of the cash payment due to CryoCath two years from closing. In each case, the cost has been allocated to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including various identifiable intangible assets such as acquired technology, acquired trademarks and tradenames, based on their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the fair market value of the net assets has been allocated as goodwill. The amount of the purchase price allocated to goodwill and the other intangible assets in connection with the acquisition of 3F is approximately $12.3 million. The preliminary amount of the initial purchase price currently allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets in connection with the purchase of the surgical cryoablation assets of CryoCath is approximately $21.8 million. Our estimates are based upon currently available information and assumptions that we believe are reasonable. We continue the process of gathering information to finalize the valuation of certain assets in the CryoCath asset acquisition, primarily the valuation of acquired intangible assets. However, there can be no assurance that the actual useful lives will not differ significantly from the current estimates. The amortization of other intangible assets could result in net losses for ATS for the foreseeable future, which could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. 15 Table of Contents If we do not receive shareholder approval to issue an equity warrant to Alta Partners VIII, L.P. (“Alta”) in exchange for their cash warrant, our cash balances may be insufficient to settle the cash liability upon exercise, we may need to raise additional equity or incur debt to settle this liability and our earnings may be adversely affected. In connection with our June 2007 equity financing, we issued a common stock warrant to Alta on 1,960,000 shares of our common stock. The form of warrant issued to Alta is that of a cash warrant. If we do not receive shareholder approval to issue shares of common stock upon Alta’s exercise of its warrants, then the warrants will become exercisable beginning on June 28, 2008, and the warrant holder will be entitled to receive, upon exercise of the warrants, cash from ATS in an amount equal to the difference between the then-current fair market value of the shares of our common stock underlying the warrants and the aggregate exercise price of the warrants. If we receive shareholder approval to issue shares of common stock upon exercise of the warrants, then the warrants will become exercisable upon receipt of such shareholder approval, and the holder will be entitled to receive shares of common stock upon exercise of the warrants. If we are unable to obtain shareholder approval, we may need to raise additional debt or equity to settle this liability. In addition, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States require us to mark-to-market the value of cash warrants on a periodic basis until we obtain shareholder approval to issue shares of our common stock upon exercise of such warrants. As a result, until we receive shareholder approval, which cannot be assured, we will continue to recognize changes in the fair value of the warrants in our profit and loss statement during each reporting period, which may have an adverse impact on our earnings. We have a history of regularly raising funds and incurring debt to fund net losses. If our current cash and investment balances are inadequate to carry us to profitability, we may need to raise equity or incur debt in the future. During the last several years, we have completed financings to fund our operations. If our future operations require greater cash than our current balances, we would again be required to raise equity or issue debt. Furthermore, there may be delays in obtaining necessary governmental approvals of our products or introducing products to market or other events that may cause actual cash requirements to exceed those for which we have budgeted. In such event, we would need additional financing. If we were unable to raise these funds, we may not be able to continue our business as planned. The market for prosthetic heart valves is highly competitive, and a number of our competitors are larger and have more financial resources. If we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. The market for prosthetic heart valves is highly competitive. We expect that competition will intensify as additional companies enter the market or modify their existing products to compete directly with us. Our primary competitor in mechanical heart valves, St. Jude Medical, Inc., currently controls approximately 50% of the worldwide market. Edwards Lifesciences PVT, Inc., our primary competitor in the tissue heart valve market, currently controls approximately 60% of the worldwide market. Many of our competitors have long-standing FDA approval for their valves and extensive clinical data demonstrating the performance of their valves. In addition, they have greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and research and development capabilities than we have. For example, many of our competitors have the ability, due to their internal carbon manufacturing facilities and economies of scale, to manufacture their heart valves at a lower cost than we can manufacture our ATS heart valve. Our primary competitor has recently used price as a method to compete in several international markets. If heart valve prices decline significantly, we might not be able to compete successfully, which would harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 16 Table of Contents Our future results will be harmed if the use of mechanical heart valves declines or if our tissue heart valves cannot be successfully marketed. Our business could suffer if the use of mechanical heart valves declines. Historically, mechanical heart valves have accounted for over two-thirds of all heart valve replacements. Recently there has been an increase in the use of tissue valves. We estimate that mechanical heart valves are currently being used in 20% to 65% of all heart valve replacements, depending on the geographic market, down from 65% to 75% roughly ten years ago. We believe the tissue manufacturers’ claims of improvements in tissue valve longevity and an increase in the average age of valve patients have contributed to the recent increase in the use of tissue valves. In addition, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to successfully market and sell our tissue heart valves or that our tissue heart valves will be approved or gain market acceptance. Our business may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain our strategic distribution arrangements. In 2007, revenues from non-mechanical heart valve products increased to 28% of total revenue from none in 2004. Some of our distributed products contain performance criteria which we must obtain to retain our rights under these arrangements. Additionally, these arrangements provide certain circumstances under which our rights may be terminated. If we are unable to maintain these arrangements, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. We ultimately may experience a delay in introducing, or may not successfully complete development of, products that are currently under development, resulting in harm to our business. We are in the process of developing certain products, including, but not limited to, the Enable and Entrata tissue heart valve products. The Enable product is currently in the early phases of clinical trials, and the Entrata product is still under development. Successfully completing the development of these products and technologies presents substantial technical, medical and engineering challenges, as well as regulatory hurdles. In 2006, ongoing clinical trial results in Europe resulted in our undertaking a review of the Enable valve cuff design. We may not successfully complete the development of these products, or these products may fail to work in the manner intended. If we are unable to successfully develop the products that are currently under development, we may suffer financial difficulties, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. New products or technologies developed by others could render our product obsolete. The medical device industry is characterized by significant technological advances. Several companies are developing new prosthetic heart valves based on new or potentially improved technologies. Significant advances are also being made in surgical procedures, which may delay the need for replacement heart valves. A new product or technology may emerge that renders the ATS heart valve noncompetitive or obsolete. This could materially harm our operating results or force us to cease doing business altogether. The acquisition of the surgical cryoablation assets of CryoCath may result in a loss of customers and suppliers. Some customers may seek alternative sources of products and/or services after the CryoCath asset acquisition due to, among other reasons, a desire not to do business with the combined company or perceived concerns that the combined company may not continue to support and develop certain product lines. The combined company could experience some customer attrition after the acquisition. Difficulties in combining operations also could result in the loss of providers and potential disputes or litigation with customers, providers or others. We license patented technology and other proprietary rights from CarboMedics. If these agreements are breached or terminated, our right to manufacture the ATS mechanical heart valve could be terminated. Under our carbon technology agreement with CarboMedics, we have obtained a license to use CarboMedics’ pyrolytic carbon technology to manufacture components for the ATS heart valve. If this agreement is breached or terminated, we would lose our right to manufacture components for the ATS heart valve. If our inventory is exhausted and we do not have any other sources of carbon components, we would be forced to cease selling mechanical heart valves. 17 Table of Contents A delay or interruption in our manufacturing of pyrolytic carbon components could delay product delivery or force us to cease operations. Although we anticipate that our manufacturing capacity will be sufficient to meet our current and foreseeable carbon component needs, if our inventory is exhausted and we are unable to manufacture carbon components, it is unlikely that we will be able to obtain the necessary carbon components from any other source. If we are unable to obtain these carbon components from other sources, we could be forced to reduce or cease operations. Because we have limited manufacturing experience with some of our products, we may not realize the expected cost savings related to manufacturing our own products. In addition, we could experience production delays and significant additional costs. Our tissue valve manufacturing efforts to date have consisted primarily of limited quantities of products for research and development, clinical trials and commercial sale outside the United States. Under our manufacturing transition services agreement with CryoCath, we will purchase products from CryoCath for the surgical cryoablation business during the manufacturing transition period. We cannot be certain that we will be able to manufacture commercial quantities of tissue heart valves or develop internal manufacturing capabilities in connection with the acquisition of the CryoCath assets in a cost-effective manner. We have limited experience manufacturing tissue heart valves and no experience manufacturing products for the surgical cryoablation business, and our inability to manufacture these products in a cost-effective manner could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, in the future as we continue to increase production, we may encounter difficulties in maintaining and expanding our manufacturing, including problems involving: • production yields; • quality control; • per unit manufacturing costs; • shortages of qualified personnel; and • compliance with FDA and international regulations and requirements regarding good manufacturing practices. Difficulties encountered by us in establishing or maintaining a commercial-scale manufacturing facility may limit our ability to manufacture our cryoablation products and therefore could seriously harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We are reliant upon CryoCath for the supply of products of our surgical cryoablation business. We currently purchase all of the products of our surgical cryoablation business from CryoCath. We are in the process of establishing and validating manufacture of these products in our own facility. However, if we are not successful in establishing our own manufacturing capabilities for these products, we would continue to be reliant on CryoCath for the supply of surgical cryoablation products. Any adverse changes in the operations, employee relations, solvency or compliance with laws and regulations by CryoCath may have a material adverse impact on the supply of products we purchase from them. Additionally, CryoCath manufactures their own products for commercial sale and our products are subject to production and scheduling constraints that may be the result of growth of their core business. If CryoCath is unable to provide product quantities in quantities sufficient to meet our demand our business, earnings and financial position may be materially harmed. Our business could be seriously harmed if third-party payers do not reimburse the costs for our products. Our ability to successfully commercialize the ATS mechanical heart valve, our tissue heart valves, surgical cryoablation devices and other products depends on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of our product and the related surgical procedure is available from third-party payers, such as governmental programs, private insurance plans and managed care organizations. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the pricing of medical products and procedures that they consider not to be cost-effective or are used for a non-approved indication. The failure by physicians, hospitals and other users of our products to obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payers would seriously harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In recent years, there have been numerous proposals to change the health care system in the United States. Some of these proposals have included measures that would limit or eliminate payment for medical procedures or treatments. In addition, government and private third-party payers are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both the coverage and the level of reimbursement. In international markets, reimbursement and health care payment systems vary significantly by country. Furthermore, we have encountered price resistance from government-administered health programs. Significant changes in the health care system in the United States or elsewhere, including changes resulting from adverse trends in third-party reimbursement programs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 18 Table of Contents We may face product liability claims, which could result in losses in excess of our insurance coverage and which could negatively affect our ability to attract and retain customers. The manufacture and sale of mechanical heart valves and tissue heart valves entails significant risk of product liability claims and product recalls. Both mechanical heart valves, tissue heart valves and valve repair products are life-sustaining devices, and the failure of any valve or repair product usually results in the patient’s death or need for re-operation. A product liability claim or product recall, regardless of the ultimate outcome, could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages and could seriously harm our business. We currently maintain product liability insurance coverage in an aggregate amount of $25 million. However, we cannot be assured that our current insurance coverage is adequate to cover the costs of any product liability claims made against us. Product liability insurance is expensive and does not cover the costs of a product recall. In the future, product liability insurance may not be available at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. A product liability claim or product recall could also materially and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. Our business would be adversely affected if we are not able to protect our intellectual property rights. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain and enforce our patents and other proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, know-how and confidentiality agreements to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology. These measures afford only limited protection, and competitors may gain access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. The patent positions of medical device companies are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and technical issues. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Any litigation could be costly and divert our attention from the growth of the business. We cannot assure you that our patents and other proprietary rights will not be successfully challenged, or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent information and technology or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology. We may be sued by third parties claiming that our products infringe on their intellectual property rights. Any such suits could result in significant litigation or licensing expenses or we might be prevented from selling our product. We may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on intellectual property infringement claims. Any claims or litigation against us, regardless of the merits, could result in substantial costs and could harm our business. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to: • cease manufacturing and selling our product, which would seriously harm us; • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; or • redesign our product, which could be costly and time-consuming. We may encounter litigation that could have a material impact on our business. In November 2006, CarboMedics filed a complaint against ATS alleging that we have breached certain contractual obligations, including an alleged obligation to purchase $22 million of carbon components under a long-term supply agreement with CarboMedics. The complaint initially sought specific enforcement of the supply agreement, revocation of certain intellectual property rights purchased by ATS from CarboMedics, and monetary damages in excess of $75,000. In May 2007, CarboMedics withdrew its request for specific performance of the contract. It has also revised its damages estimate to $13.6 million before accounting for net present value adjustments, interest, attorney’s fees and costs. We believe that the complaint filed by CarboMedics is without merit. We have filed our answer to the complaint, including certain counterclaims against CarboMedics. A trial date has been set for September 2008. If we are ultimately found to be in breach of the terms of our supply agreement with CarboMedics, we could be required to pay damages that would materially and adversely affect our financial condition. 19 Table of Contents In addition to the CarboMedics litigation described above, we may be subject to product liability claims, intellectual property infringement claims or other lawsuits, proceedings and claims arising in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. Although we do not believe that any lawsuits, claims or proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business will have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition, it is possible that unfavorable resolutions of any lawsuits, claims or proceedings could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition because of the uncertainty inherent in litigation. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which is costly, time consuming and can subject us to unanticipated delays or could ultimately preclude us from marketing and selling our products. Our heart valves, surgical cryoablation products and other products and our manufacturing activities are subject to extensive regulation by a number of governmental agencies, including the FDA and comparable international agencies, as well as other federal, state, local and international authorities. We are required to: • obtain the approval of the FDA or international regulatory authorities where our products are not yet marketed; • after obtaining approval or clearance of the FDA or international regulatory authorities, maintain the approval of the FDA and international regulatory authorities to continue selling and manufacturing our heart valves; • satisfy content requirements for all of our labeling, sales and promotional materials; • comply with manufacturing and reporting requirements; and • undergo rigorous inspections by these agencies. Compliance with the regulations of these governmental authorities may delay or prevent us from introducing any new or improved products. The governmental authorities in charge of making and implementing these laws or related regulations may change the laws, impose additional restrictions, or adopt interpretations of existing laws or regulations that could have a material adverse effect on us. Violations of these laws or regulatory requirements may result in fines, marketing restrictions, product recall, withdrawal of approvals and civil and criminal penalties. We also may incur substantial costs associated with complying and overseeing compliance with the laws and regulations of these governmental authorities. We ultimately may not be able to obtain the necessary governmental approvals or clearances in the United States or other jurisdictions, including FDA and CE approvals and clearances, for products that are now under development, including our 3F Aortic Bioprosthesis, Enable and Entrata products and surgical cryoablation products designed for standalone minimally invasive procedures. Obtaining these governmental approvals or clearances is uncertain, and the regulatory approval process is likely to be time-consuming and expensive. If we are unable to obtain such governmental approvals or clearances, then our ability to market and sell products currently under development may be delayed or may never occur. Our potential inability to market and sell our products currently under development, together with the potential expenses associated with obtaining the necessary governmental approvals or clearances, may cause us to suffer financial difficulties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. The price of our common stock has been volatile, which may result in losses to investors. Historically, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated over a wide range and it is likely that the price of our common stock will fluctuate in the future. The market price of our common stock could be impacted by the following: • the success of our management in operating ATS effectively; • the failure of our heart valves to gain market acceptance in the United States; • announcements of technical innovations or new products by our competitors; • the status of component supply arrangements; • changes in reimbursement policies; • government regulation; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • public concern as to the safety and efficacy of products developed by us or others; and • general market conditions. 20 Table of Contents In addition, due to one or more of the foregoing factors, in future years our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the market price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. Finally, in recent years the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may materially adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating results. Our charter documents and Minnesota law may discourage and could delay or prevent a takeover of our company. Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Minnesota law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions include the following: • No cumulative voting by shareholders for directors; • The ability of our Board of Directors to control its size, to create new directorships and to fill vacancies; • The ability of our Board of Directors, without shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock, which may have rights and preferences that are superior to our common stock; • The ability of our Board of Directors to amend the bylaws; and • Restrictions under Minnesota law regarding mergers or other business combinations between us and any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 