ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. Any of the risks discussed below could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. We have historically relied on the ATS mechanical heart valve as our primary source of revenue. If we are unable to maintain our current sales levels of mechanical heart valves, or if we are unable to successfully market our other products on a broad basis, including in Europe, our operating results may be harmed and we may not achieve profitability. Sales of our mechanical heart valves accounted for approximately 60% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009. In addition, we depend upon sales outside the United States and expect that international sales will account for a substantial majority of our net sales until our products receive wider market acceptance from U.S. customers. In fiscal 2009 approximately 61% of our net sales were derived outside of the United States. Accordingly, our success will depend in large part on the medical community’s continued acceptance of our mechanical heart valves, and on our ability to expand worldwide, 13 Table of Contents and particularly in Europe, market acceptance of our other existing and new products, including our sutureless heart valves. If we encounter difficulties in maintaining existing markets for our products or in expanding the market for our existing and new products in Europe, we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to achieve profitability, and our business and operating results will be seriously harmed. Recently there has been an increase in the use of tissue valves. We estimate that mechanical heart valves are currently being used in 20% to 65% of all heart valve replacements, depending on the geographic market, down from 65% to 75% approximately ten years ago. We believe that the tissue manufacturers’ claims of improvements in tissue valve longevity and an increase in the average age of valve patients have contributed to the recent increase in the use of tissue valves. There can be no assurance that use of mechanical heart valves will not decline or that we will be able to maintain our current levels of mechanical heart valve sales. There can also be no guarantee that we will be able to successfully market and sell our tissue heart valves, that our tissue heart valves will be approved or gain broad market acceptance, or that our other products will decrease our dependence on sales of mechanical heart valves. The acceptance of our products in medical communities will depend upon our ability to demonstrate the safety and efficacy, advantages, long-term clinical performance and cost-effectiveness of our products as compared to other products, as well as our ability to successfully train medical communities on the proper use and deployment of our products. We cannot predict whether medical communities will accept ATS products or, if accepted, the extent of their respective uses. In addition, if members of a medical community are not properly trained, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products. Negative publicity resulting from isolated incidents involving ATS products or other products related to those we sell could have a significant adverse effect on the overall acceptance of our heart valves and other product and technology offerings. In addition, increasing revenues from new products cannot be guaranteed, and even if we were to develop additional products, regulatory approval would likely be required to sell them. Clinical testing and the approval process itself are very expensive and can take many years. Adverse rulings by regulatory authorities, product liability lawsuits, the loss of market acceptance or the failure to expand market acceptance, or other adverse publicity, may significantly and adversely affect sales of our products and, as a result, would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Further, we will need to expand our infrastructure in Europe in order to successfully execute our growth plan in that region. We may not be able to sufficiently expand our infrastructure in Europe efficiently or in a timely manner in order to execute our European growth plan, and given our dependence on sales outside the United States, any material decrease in foreign sales may materially and adversely affect our operating results. We have a history of net losses and of regularly raising funds and incurring debt to fund our net losses. If our current cash and investment balances are inadequate to carry us to profitability, we may need to raise equity or incur additional debt in the future. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing, we may be unable to continue our operations. We are not currently profitable and have a very limited history of profitability. We had net losses of approximately $6.3 million for 2009, $19.3 million for 2008, and $23.0 million for 2007. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $158.2 million, compared to approximately $151.9 million as of December 31, 2008. We expect to incur significant expenses over the next several years as we continue to devote substantial resources to the commercialization and marketing of our products both in the United States and in many foreign countries, and we may in the future be required to raise equity or issue additional debt to fund acquisitions and our operations if our future operations require more cash than our current balances. In addition, we will not generate net income unless we are able to significantly increase revenue from sales. If we continue to sustain losses, we may not be able to continue our operations. Furthermore, there may be delays in obtaining necessary governmental approvals of our products or introducing products to market or other events that may cause actual cash requirements to exceed those for which we have budgeted. In such event, we would need additional financing. Lastly, the holders of our 6% Convertible Senior Notes due 2025 (“Convertible Senior Notes” or “Notes”) have the option to require us to repurchase the Convertible Senior Notes in October 2010. While we have recently obtained a commitment for term debt financing which will be used to call and retire the Notes, if this financing is not consummated and the Note holders exercise their repurchase option, we would need to raise capital, issue debt securities and/or borrow to finance the repurchase of these Notes. 14 Table of Contents We do not know what impact the current unprecedented volatility in worldwide credit and equity markets may have on our ability to obtain future financing. Beginning in the fall of 2008, the world experienced unprecedented turmoil in equity and credit markets that has resulted in record-setting losses in the stock markets, dramatic decreases of liquidity in the credit markets, bank failures, hedge fund closures and massive market intervention by the United States and foreign governments. Because of the unprecedented nature of these market events, and because the markets remain highly volatile, we cannot predict what effect these events will have on our ability to obtain debt or equity financing in the future. If we are unable to raise sufficient capital, it will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to remain in business. The recent U.S. and global economic downturn could have adverse effects on our business and our company. The economic turmoil discussed above has also negatively impacted world economies, businesses, and markets, and could adversely impact our company in the future. We cannot predict what effect these events will have on our sales, collectibility of receivables, debt covenants, ability to attract additional investors, and company stock price. Increased volatility in our stock price attributable to the economic downtown could negatively impact our future reported operating results, including the potential for impairments to our recorded goodwill and higher stock compensation expense. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which is costly, time consuming and can subject us to unanticipated delays or could ultimately preclude us from marketing and selling our products, and we are subject to risks relating to non-FDA-approved, or off-label, use of our products. Our heart valves, surgical cryoablation products and other products and our manufacturing activities are subject to extensive regulation by a number of governmental agencies, including the FDA and comparable international agencies, as well as other federal, state, local and international authorities. We are required to: • obtain the approval of the FDA or international regulatory authorities where our products are not yet marketed; • after obtaining approval or clearance of the FDA or international regulatory authorities, maintain the approval of the FDA and international regulatory authorities to continue selling and manufacturing our products; • satisfy content requirements for all of our labeling, sales and promotional materials; • comply with manufacturing and reporting requirements; and • undergo rigorous inspections by these agencies. Compliance with the regulations of these governmental authorities may delay or prevent us from introducing any new or improved products. The governmental authorities charged with making and implementing these laws or related regulations may change the laws, impose additional restrictions, or adopt interpretations of existing laws or regulations that could have a material adverse effect on us. Violations of these laws or regulatory requirements may result in fines, marketing restrictions, product recall, withdrawal of approvals and civil and criminal penalties. We also may incur substantial costs associated with complying and overseeing compliance with the laws and regulations of these governmental authorities. We ultimately may not be able to obtain the necessary governmental approvals or clearances in the United States or other jurisdictions, including FDA and CE approvals and clearances, for products that are now under development, including, but not limited to, our ATS 3f Enable Aortic Bioprosthesis tissue heart valve product, our closed-chest beating heart aortic tissue heart valve product, and the ForceField process. Obtaining these governmental approvals or clearances is uncertain, and the regulatory approval process is likely to be time-consuming and expensive. If we are unable to obtain such governmental approvals or clearances, then our ability to market and sell products currently under development may be delayed or may never occur. Our potential inability to market and sell our products currently under development, together with the potential expenses associated with obtaining the necessary governmental approvals or clearances, may cause us to suffer financial difficulties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. 15 Table of Contents In addition, the use of our products outside the indications cleared for use, or “off-label use,” may increase the risk of injury to patients. Because the FDA does not restrict or regulate a doctor’s choice of treatment within the practice of medicine, doctors may use our products for off-label uses. Off-label use of our products may increase the risk of product liability claims, which are expensive to defend, would divert our management’s attention and could result in substantial damage awards against us. In addition, the FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance has not been obtained. Any investigation of us concerning the promotion of off-label uses could be expensive, disruptive and burdensome to defend, and could generate negative publicity. If the FDA or another regulatory agency determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. Although our policy is not to use any statements that could be considered off-label promotion of our products, the FDA or another regulatory agency could disagree and conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Healthcare reform legislation could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition. In recent years, there have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for, the availability of and reimbursement for healthcare services in the United States. These initiatives have ranged from proposals to fundamentally change federal and state healthcare reimbursement programs, including providing comprehensive healthcare coverage to the public under governmental funded programs, to minor modifications to existing programs. Recently, President Obama and members of Congress have proposed significant reforms to the U.S. healthcare system. Both houses of Congress have conducted hearings about U.S. healthcare reform and a number of bills have been proposed in Congress. A leading proposal includes an excise tax on the medical device industry that would be payable based on revenue, not income. In addition, recent legislation and many of these proposed bills include funding to assess the comparative effectiveness of medical devices. Although Congress has indicated that this funding is intended to improve the quality of health care, it is unclear what impact this assessment will have on coverage, reimbursement or other third-party payor policies, or what effect that assessment and the excise tax proposal would have on our products or our financial results. To the extent these or other reform measures affect the coverage and reimbursement of our current or future products, there could be a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operating results. The ultimate content or timing of any future healthcare reform legislation, and its impact on medical device companies such as ATS, is impossible to predict. If significant reforms are made to the healthcare system in the United States, or in other jurisdictions, those reforms could materially impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business could be seriously harmed if third-party payers do not reimburse the costs for our products. Our ability to successfully commercialize the ATS mechanical heart valve, our tissue heart valves, surgical cryoablation devices and other products depends on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of our product and the related surgical procedure is available from third-party payers, such as governmental programs, private insurance plans and managed care organizations. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the pricing of medical products and procedures that they consider not to be cost-effective or that are used for a non-approved indication. The failure by physicians, hospitals and other users of our products to obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payers would seriously harm our business, financial condition and operating results. As noted above, in recent years there have been numerous proposals to change the health care system in the United States. Some of these proposals have included measures that would limit or eliminate payment for medical procedures or treatments. In addition, government and private third-party payers are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both the coverage and the level of reimbursement. In international markets, reimbursement and health care payment systems vary significantly by country. 16 Table of Contents Furthermore, we have encountered price resistance from government-administered health programs. Significant changes in the health care system in the United States or elsewhere, including changes resulting from adverse trends in third-party reimbursement programs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Foreign currency fluctuations and other risks inherent in doing business in international markets could adversely affect our operating results. In certain countries in Europe we maintain direct sales operations and sell in local currency. In addition, we sell in U.S. dollars to our international distributors and European subsidiaries abroad. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to other currencies can adversely affect our sales volume outside of the United States as well as increase our exposure to foreign exchange losses on subsidiary intercompany payments and payables. Given our dependence on sales outside of the United States and our expectation that international sales will account for a substantial majority of our net sales until our products receive wider market acceptance from U.S. customers, we believe we will continue to be exposed to U.S. dollar currency fluctuations for the foreseeable future. Our future operating results could also be harmed by risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: • unforeseen changes in regulatory requirements and government health programs; • weaker intellectual property rights protection in some countries; • new export license requirements, changes in tariffs or trade restrictions; • political and economic instability in our target markets; • greater difficulty in collecting payments from product sales; • lengthy/extended credit terms; and • competitive price pressure. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive, and a number of our competitors are larger and have more financial resources. If we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. The medical device industry, including the market for prosthetic heart valves and the surgical AF market, is highly competitive, subject to rapid technological change and significantly affected by new product introductions and promotional activities of other participants. We expect that competition will intensify as additional companies enter the market or modify their existing products to compete directly with us. Our primary competitor in the mechanical heart valve market is St. Jude Medical, Inc., our primary competitor in the tissue heart valve market is Edwards Lifesciences Corporation, and our primary competitor in the surgical ablation market is AtriCure, Inc. All of these companies currently hold a significantly higher market share position than ATS. Most of our heart valve competitors have long-standing FDA approval for their valves and extensive clinical data demonstrating the performance of their valves. In addition, they have greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and research and development capabilities than we have. For example, many of our competitors have the ability, due to economies of scale, to manufacture their heart valves at a lower cost than we can manufacture our valves. Our competitors have also used price as a method to compete in several international markets. If heart valve prices decline significantly, we might not be able to compete successfully, which would harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, we cannot assure you that our surgical ablation products will compete effectively against other ablation systems or other surgical treatments. A number of companies are promoting devices for the ablation of cardiac tissue, and we anticipate that new or existing competitors may develop competing products, procedures or clinical solutions. The introduction of new products, procedures, clinical solutions, or a competitor obtaining FDA approval of a product for the treatment of AF, may result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share and may render our products obsolete, which could adversely affect our operating results and prospects. 17 Table of Contents Without the timely introduction of new and improved products, new products or technologies could emerge that render our products noncompetitive and obsolete. The medical device industry is characterized by significant technological advances, frequent new product introductions, and evolving industry standards. Several companies are developing new prosthetic heart valves based on new or potentially improved technologies. Significant advances are also being made in surgical procedures, which may delay the need for replacement heart valves. Without the timely introduction of new and improved products, new products or technologies could emerge that render our products noncompetitive and obsolete. This could materially harm our operating results or force us to cease doing business altogether. Even if we are able to develop new products, our ability to market them could be limited by the need for regulatory clearance, restrictions imposed on approved indications, entrenched patterns of clinical practice, uncertainty over third party reimbursement, or other factors. We ultimately may experience a delay in introducing, or may not successfully complete the development of, products that are currently under development, resulting in harm to our business. Technical innovations often require substantial time and investment before we can determine their commercial viability. We are in the process of developing certain products, including, but not limited to, the ATS 3f Enable Aortic Bioprosthesis tissue heart valve product, a closed-chest beating heart aortic tissue heart valve product and the ForceField process. U.S. clinical trials for the Enable product are expected to commence during 2010. The closed-chest aortic tissue heart valve product is still under development. Successfully completing the development of these products and technologies presents substantial technical, medical and engineering challenges, as well as clinical and regulatory hurdles. We may not successfully complete the development of these products, they may fail to work in the manner intended, or even if we are able to successfully develop these products, they may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development. If we are unable to successfully develop the products that are currently under development, we may suffer financial difficulties, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If we are unsuccessful in clinical trials, our lack of success could have a material adverse effect on our prospects. The development of new products requires extensive clinical trials and procedures. Such clinical trials are inherently uncertain and there can be no assurance that these trials or procedures will be completed in a timely or cost effective manner or result in a commercially viable product. Failure to successfully complete these trials or procedures in a timely and cost effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our prospects. Clinical trials may experience significant setbacks even after earlier trials have shown promising results. In addition, results from our clinical trials or procedures may not be supported by actual long-term studies or clinical experience. If initial results cannot be supported by actual long-term studies or clinical experience, our business could be adversely affected. Clinical trials may be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA, or other regulatory authorities at any time if it is believed that the trial participants face unacceptable health risks. If we acquire other companies or businesses, we will be subject to risks that could hurt our business. We may pursue acquisitions to obtain complementary businesses, products or technologies. Any such acquisition may not produce the revenues, earnings or business synergies that we anticipate and an acquired business, product or technology might not perform as we expect. Our management could spend a significant amount of time, effort and expense to identify, pursue and complete an acquisition. If we complete an acquisition, we may encounter significant difficulties and incur substantial expenses in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired company into our operations while striving to preserve the goodwill of the acquired company. In particular, we may lose the services of key employees of the acquired company and we may make changes in management that impair the acquired company’s relationships with employees and customers. Any of these outcomes could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of an acquisition. In addition, to fund an acquisition we might use stock or cash. In the alternative we might borrow money from a bank or other lender. If we use stock, our stockholders would experience dilution of their ownership 18 Table of Contents interests. If we use cash or debt financing, our financial liquidity would be reduced. We may also be required to capitalize a significant amount of intangibles, including goodwill, which may lead to significant amortization or write-off charges. These amortization charges and write-offs could decrease our future earnings or increase our future losses. Any termination of our right to manufacture pyrolytic carbon components under our carbon technology agreement with Carbomedics, or any delay or interruption in our manufacturing of these components, could delay product delivery or force us to cease operations. We license patented technology and other proprietary rights from CarboMedics. Under our agreement with Carbomedics, we have obtained a license to use CarboMedics’ pyrolytic carbon technology to manufacture components for the ATS mechanical heart valve. The license permits us to use and sell only valves with a specific configuration as described in the agreement, and to manufacture components only for these valves. It does not include the right to sublicense the technology or to manufacture components for third parties. If our use of the licensed technology is deemed to fall outside the scope of the agreement, or if the agreement is otherwise breached or alleged to have been breached or if it is terminated, we would lose our right to manufacture components for the ATS mechanical heart valve. In addition, although we anticipate that our manufacturing capacity will be sufficient to meet our current and foreseeable carbon component needs, it is possible that our inventory could be exhausted or that we could become unable to manufacture carbon components. In any of these cases, it is unlikely that we will be able to obtain the necessary carbon components from any other source. If we are unable to obtain these carbon components from other sources, we could be forced to reduce or cease operations. We may encounter litigation that could have a material impact on our business. We may be subject to product liability claims, intellectual property infringement claims or other lawsuits, proceedings and claims arising in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. Although we do not believe that any lawsuits, claims or proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business will have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition, it is possible that unfavorable resolutions of any lawsuits, claims or proceedings could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition because of the uncertainty inherent in litigation. We may face product liability claims, which could result in losses in excess of our insurance coverage and which could negatively affect our ability to attract and retain customers. The manufacture and sale of mechanical heart valves, tissue heart valves and surgical cryoablation products entails significant risk of product liability claims and product recalls. Mechanical heart valves, tissue heart valves and valve repair products are life-sustaining devices, and the failure of any valve or repair product usually results in the patient’s death or need for re-operation. In addition, our tissue heart valves are made primarily from animal or cadaver tissue. While we closely monitor the sources from which we obtain the tissue used in our tissue heart valves and are not aware of any issues relating to the transmission of infection due to the use of our tissue heart valves, there is a risk of potential transmission of infection to a patient if the tissue used in the valve is infected. Further, the use of products we sell for the treatment of arrhythmia may result in a number of serious complications, including damage to the heart, internal bleeding or other complications, including death. A product liability claim or product recall, regardless of the ultimate outcome, could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages and could seriously harm our business. We currently maintain product liability insurance coverage in an aggregate amount of $25 million. However, we cannot be assured that our current insurance coverage is adequate to cover the costs of any product liability claims made against us. Product liability insurance is expensive and does not cover the costs of a product recall. In the future, product liability insurance may not be available at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. A product liability claim or product recall could also materially and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. Our business would be adversely affected if we are not able to protect our intellectual property rights. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain and enforce our patents and other proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, know-how and confidentiality agreements to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology. These measures afford only limited protection, and competitors may 19 Table of Contents gain access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. The patent positions of medical device companies are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and technical issues. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Any litigation could be costly and divert our attention from the growth of the business. We cannot assure you that our patents and other proprietary rights will not be successfully challenged, or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent information and technology or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology. We may be sued by third parties claiming that our products infringe on their intellectual property rights. Any such suits could result in significant litigation or licensing expenses or we might be prevented from selling our products. We may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on intellectual property infringement claims. Any claims or litigation against us, regardless of the merits, could result in substantial costs and could harm our business. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to: • cease manufacturing and selling our product, which would seriously harm us; • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; or • redesign our product, which could be costly and time-consuming. If the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, it could materially reduce the value of our assets and reduce our net income for the year in which the related impairment charges occur. We apply the applicable accounting principles set forth in the U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Accounting Standards Codification to our intangible assets (including goodwill), which prohibits the amortization of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and requires that these assets be reviewed for impairment at least annually. The test for impairment requires our management to make estimates about fair value that are based either on the expected undiscounted future cash flows or on other measures of value such as the market capitalization of ATS. If the carrying amount of the assets is greater than the measures of fair value, impairment is considered to have occurred and a write-down of the asset is recorded. Our management completed impairment testing on all of the Company’s intangible assets (including goodwill) as of the end of 2009 and determined that our goodwill and other intangible assets were not impaired. We may, however, have future impairment adjustments to the recorded values of our intangible assets, including goodwill. Any finding that the value of our intangible assets has been impaired would require us to write-down the impaired portion, which could materially reduce the value of our assets and reduce our net income for the year in which the related impairment charges occur. As of December 31, 2009, we had a net carrying value of approximately $61.1 million in goodwill and other definite-lived intangible assets recorded, which largely represents intangible assets connected with our acquisitions of 3F and the surgical cryoablation business of CryoCath. The amount of the purchase price allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets in connection with the acquisition of 3F is approximately $27.4 million. The amount of the purchase price allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets in connection with the purchase of the surgical cryoablation business of CryoCath is approximately $23.7 million. Our estimates of useful lives on definite-lived intangibles are based upon available information and assumptions that we believe are reasonable. However, there can be no assurance that the actual useful lives will not differ significantly from our estimates. The amortization of definite-lived intangible assets could result in net losses for ATS for the foreseeable future, which could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. We use a combination of direct sales persons and independent sales representatives to sell our products. If our sales strategy is not successful, we may not be able to continue our operations. The sales approach for the sale of our products consists primarily of direct salespersons with a few independent sales representatives. We will need to continue to expend significant funds and management resources to develop and maintain this hybrid sales force. We believe that there is significant competition for sales personnel and independent sales representatives with the advanced sales skills and technical 20 Table of Contents knowledge we need. If we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate qualified personnel and representatives, sales of our products could be adversely affected. The loss of key salespersons or independent sales representatives could have a material adverse effect on our sales or potential sales to current customers and prospects serviced by such salespersons or representatives. Further, we cannot assure the successful expansion of our network of independent sales representatives on terms acceptable to ATS, if at all, or the successful marketing of our products by our hybrid sales force. To the extent we rely on sales through independent sales representatives, any revenues we receive will depend primarily on the efforts of these parties. We do not control the amount and timing of marketing resources that these third parties devote to our product. If our sales strategy is not successful, we may be forced to change it. Any such change could disrupt our sales. Further, any change in our sales strategy could be expensive and would likely have a material adverse impact on our operating results. We currently depend on the marketing and sales efforts of international independent distributors. In many countries our products are sold through independent distributors. The loss of an international distributor could seriously harm our business and operating results if a new distributor could not be found on a timely basis in the relevant geographic market. We do not control the amount and timing of marketing resources that these third party distributors devote to our product. Furthermore, to the extent we rely on sales through independent distributors, any revenues we receive will depend primarily on the efforts of these parties. Because we have limited manufacturing experience with some of our products, we may not realize the expected cost savings related to manufacturing our own products. In addition, we could experience production delays and significant additional costs. We have limited experience manufacturing tissue heart valves and surgical cryoablation products. Our inability to manufacture these products in a cost-effective manner could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We cannot be certain that we will be able to manufacture commercial quantities of tissue heart valves or fully develop internal manufacturing capabilities for surgical cryoablation products in a cost-effective manner. In addition, in the future, as we continue to increase production, we may encounter difficulties in maintaining and expanding our manufacturing, including problems involving: • production yields; • quality control; • per unit manufacturing costs; • shortages of qualified personnel; and • compliance with FDA and international regulations and requirements regarding good manufacturing practices. Difficulties encountered by us in establishing or maintaining commercial-scale manufacturing facilities may limit our ability to manufacture our products and therefore could seriously harm our business, financial condition and operating results. The price of our common stock has been volatile, which may result in losses to investors. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. The market price of our common stock could be impacted by the following: • general market conditions; • actual or anticipated sales of common stock by existing shareholders, whether in the market or in subsequent public offerings; • capital commitments; • the success of our management in operating ATS effectively; 21 Table of Contents • the failure of our heart valves and other products to gain market acceptance in the United States; • announcements of technical innovations or new products by our competitors; • the status of component supply arrangements; • changes in reimbursement policies; • government regulation; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • public concern as to the safety and efficacy of products developed by us or others; and • armed conflict, war or terrorism. In addition, due to one or more of the foregoing factors, in future years our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the market price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. Finally, in recent years the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may materially adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating results. The stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has at times been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, make it difficult to predict the market price of our common stock in the future and cause the value of an investment in our common stock to decline. Our charter documents and Minnesota law may discourage and could delay or prevent a takeover of our company. Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Minnesota law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions include the following: • No cumulative voting by shareholders for directors; • The ability of our Board of Directors to control its size, to create new directorships and to fill vacancies; • The ability of our Board of Directors, without shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock, which may have rights and preferences that are superior to our common stock; • The ability of our Board of Directors to amend the bylaws; and • Restrictions under Minnesota law regarding mergers or other business combinations between us and any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 