Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risks and uncertainties may affect our performance and results of operations. Our business can be hurt by economic conditions. Our business is affected by a number of economic factors, including the level of economic activity in the markets in which we operate. Since 2008, the state of the United States economy has negatively impacted the commercial and industrial new construction markets. The decline in economic activity in the United States has materially affected our financial condition and results of operations. Sales in the commercial and industrial new construction markets correlate to the number of new homes and buildings that are built, which in turn is influenced by cyclical factors such as interest rates, inflation, consumer spending habits, employment rates and other macroeconomic factors over which we have no control. In the HVAC business, a decline in economic activity as a result of these cyclical or other factors typically results in a decline in new construction and replacement purchases; but, thus far, has not resulted in a decrease in our sales volume and profitability. We may be adversely affected by problems in the availability, or increases in the prices, of raw materials and components. Problems in the availability, or increases in the prices, of raw materials or components could depress our sales or increase the costs of our products. We are dependent upon components purchased from third parties, as well as raw materials such as steel, copper and aluminum. Occasionally, we enter into cancelable and noncancelable contracts on terms from six months to one year for raw materials and components at fixed prices. However, if a key supplier is unable or unwilling to meet our supply requirements, we could experience supply interruptions or cost increases, either of which could have an adverse effect on our gross profit. 4 We risk having losses resulting from the use of non-cancelable fixed price contracts. Historically, we attempted to limit the impact of price fluctuations on commodities by entering into non-cancelable fixed price contracts with our major suppliers for periods of 6 - 18 months. We expect to receive delivery of raw materials from our fixed price contracts for use in our manufacturing operations. These fixed price contracts are not accounted for as derivative instruments since they meet the normal purchases and sales exemption. We may not be able to successfully develop and market new products. Our future success will depend upon our continued investment in research and new product development and our ability to continue to realize new technological advances in the HVAC industry. Our inability to continue to successfully develop and market new products or our inability to achieve technological advances on a pace consistent with that of our competitors could lead to a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may incur material costs as a result of warranty and product liability claims that would negatively affect our profitability. The development, manufacture, sale and use of our products involve a risk of warranty and product liability claims. Our product liability insurance policies have limits that, if exceeded, may result in material costs that would have an adverse effect on our future profitability. In addition, warranty claims are not covered by our product liability insurance and there may be types of product liability claims that are also not covered by our product liability insurance. We may not be able to compete favorably in the highly competitive HVAC business. Competition in our various markets could cause us to reduce our prices or lose market share, or could negatively affect our cash flow, which could have an adverse effect on our future financial results. Substantially all of the markets in which we participate are highly competitive. The most significant competitive factors we face are product reliability, product performance, service and price, with the relative importance of these factors varying among our product line. Other factors that affect competition in the HVAC market include the development and application of new technologies and an increasing emphasis on the development of more efficient HVAC products. Moreover, new product introductions are an important factor in the market categories in which our products compete. Several of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, allowing them to invest in more extensive research and development. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competition and current and future competitive pressures faced by us may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. The loss of Norman H. Asbjornson could impair the growth of our business. Norman H. Asbjornson, our founder, has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer from inception to date. He has provided the leadership and vision for our growth. Although important responsibilities and functions have been delegated to other highly experienced and capable management personnel, and our products are technologically advanced and well positioned for sales into the future, his death, disability or retirement could impair the growth of our business. We do not have an employment agreement with Mr. Asbjornson. It should be noted, however, that the Board of Directors is in the process of evolving a succession plan relating to Mr. Asbjornson and the positions currently held by him. 5 Our business is subject to the risks of interruptions by problems such as computer viruses. We depend upon information technology infrastructure, including network, hardware and software systems to conduct our business. Despite our implementation of network and other cyber security measures, our information technology system and networks could be disrupted or experience a security breach from computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business. Exposure to environmental liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. Our future profitability could be adversely affected by current or future environmental laws. We are subject to extensive and changing federal, state and local laws and regulations designed to protect the environment in the United States and in other parts of the world. These laws and regulations could impose liability for remediation costs and result in civil or criminal penalties in case of non-compliance. Compliance with environmental laws increases our costs of doing business. Because these laws are subject to frequent change, we are unable to predict the future costs resulting from environmental compliance. Extreme governmental regulations. We always face the possibility of new governmental regulations which could have a substantial or even extreme negative effect on our operations and profitability. Specifically, Final Rule, Regulatory Identification No. 1904-AC23, published on March 7, 2011, which, if fully implemented subsequent to the current extension to the implementation date of January 1, 2014, would have highly detrimental consequences to all industries involving sales of energy using products by imposing burdensome, excessive and, in part, impossible testing requirements. In addition, several other intrusive component part regulations have been proposed recently. If these proposals become final rules, the effect would be the regulation of compressors and fans in products for which the DOE does not have current authority. This could affect equipment we currently manufacture and could have an impact on our product design, operations and profitability. We are subject to adverse changes in tax laws. Our tax expense or benefits could be adversely affected by changes in tax provisions, unfavorable findings in tax examinations or differing interpretations by tax authorities. We are unable to estimate the impact that current and future tax proposals and tax laws could have on our results of operations. We are currently subject to state and local tax examinations for which we do not expect any major assessments. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 