Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors before you decide to make an investment decision regarding our stock. The risk factors may cause our future earnings to be lower or our financial condition to be less favorable than we expect. In addition, other risks of which we are not aware, or which we do not believe are material, may cause earnings to be lower, or may hurt our financial condition. You should also consider the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as in the documents incorporated by reference into it. Changes in U.S. or regional economic conditions could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or profitability. Our business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States and in our local market area. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, unemployment levels, consumer confidence and spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the economy in the United States generally and in our market area in particular. The national economy recently experienced a recession, with rising unemployment levels, declines in real estate values and an erosion in consumer confidence. Dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market over the past few years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, have negatively affected the performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions. Continued elevated levels of unemployment, further declines in the values of real estate, or other events that affect household and/or corporate incomes could impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans in accordance with their terms and reduce demand for our products and services. Changes in local economic conditions could adversely affect our business. Our commercial and commercial real estate lending operations are concentrated in Anne Arundel, Carroll, Frederick, Howard, Montgomery, and Prince George’s counties in Maryland, and Fairfax and Loudoun counties in Virginia. Our success depends in part upon economic conditions in these markets. Adverse changes in economic conditions in these markets could reduce our growth in loans and deposits, impair our ability to collect our loans, increase our problem loans and charge-offs and otherwise negatively affect our performance and financial condition. Recent declines in real estate values could cause some of our residential and commercial real estate loans to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss in the event that we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral. 13 We may not successfully execute our plan to return to profitability While we were profitable for the year ended December 31, 2010, we had a net loss available to common stockholders of approximately $19.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. We plan to continue to remain profitable on a long-term basis by stabilizing and reducing our level of non-performing assets, enhancing our capital and liquidity, and increasing the operating income of our core community banking franchise. There can be no assurance that we will continue to remain profitable. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover our actual loan and lease losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses in an amount that we believe is adequate to provide for probable losses inherent in the portfolio. While we strive to monitor credit quality and to identify loans and leases that may become non-performing, at any time there are loans and leases included in the portfolio that will result in losses, but that have not been identified as non-performing or potential problem credits. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify deteriorating credits prior to them becoming non-performing assets, or that we will have the ability to limit losses on those loans and leases that are identified. As a result, future additions to the allowance may be necessary. Additionally, future additions may be required based on changes in the loans and leases comprising the portfolio and changes in the financial condition of borrowers, that may result from a change in economic conditions, or as a result of assumptions by management in determining the allowance. Additionally, federal banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review our allowance for loan and lease losses. These regulatory agencies may require us to increase our provision for loan and lease losses or to recognize further loan or lease charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may differ from ours. Any increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses could have a negative effect on the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. If our non-performing assets increase, our earnings will suffer. At December 31, 2010, our non-performing assets totaled $97.7 million, or 2.78%, of total assets, compared to non-performing assets of $141.2 million, or 3.89% of total assets at December 31, 2009. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or other real estate owned. We must reserve for probable losses on loans and leases, which is established through a current period charge to the provision for loan and lease losses and from time to time and must write-down the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to other real estate owned. Further, the resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from more profitable activity. Finally, if our estimate for the recorded allowance for loan and lease losses proves to be incorrect and our allowance is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance accordingly and as a result our earnings would be adversely affected. A further downturn in the market areas we serve could increase our credit risk associated with our loan portfolio, as it could have a material adverse effect on both the ability of borrowers to repay loans as well as the value of the real property or other property held as collateral for such loans. There can be no assurance that we will not experience further increases in non-performing loans in the future, or that our non-performing assets will not result in further losses in the future. We are subject to certain risks related to originating and selling mortgage loans. We originate and often sell mortgage loans. When we sell mortgage loans, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. Our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. We have received a limited number of repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers as a result of borrower fraud and early payment default of the borrower on mortgage loans. As a result, we have adjusted the amount of accrued losses for repurchases. While we have taken steps to enhance our underwriting policies and procedures, these steps may not be effective or reduce the risk associated with loans sold in the past. If repurchase and indemnity demands increase materially, our results of operations could be adversely affected. When we originate a mortgage loan, we do so with the expectation that if the borrower defaults then our ultimate loss is mitigated by the value of the collateral that secures the mortgage loan. Our ability to mitigate our losses on defaulted loans depends upon our ability to promptly foreclose upon the collateral after an appropriate cure period. In some states, the large number of mortgage foreclosures that have occurred has resulted in delays in foreclosing. Any delay in the foreclosure process will adversely affect us by increasing our expenses related to carrying such assets, such as taxes, insurance, and other carrying costs, and exposes us to losses as a result of potential additional declines in the value of such collateral. Changes in interest rates and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Our net income depends to a great extent upon the level of our net interest income. Changes in interest rates can increase or decrease net interest income and net income. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income we earn on loans, investments, and other interest-earning assets, and the interest we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Net interest income is affected by changes in market interest rates, because different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to market interest rate changes. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or re-price more quickly than interest-earning assets in a period, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce net interest income. Similarly, when interest-earning assets mature or re-price more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. 14 Changes in market interest rates are affected by many factors beyond our control, including inflation, unemployment, money supply, international events, and events in world financial markets. We attempt to manage our risk from changes in market interest rates by adjusting the rates, maturity, re-pricing, and balances of the different types of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, but interest rate risk management techniques are not exact. As a result, a rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our net interest margin and results of operations. Changes in the market interest rates for types of products and services in our various markets also may vary significantly from location to location and over time based upon competition and local or regional economic factors. At December 31, 2010, our interest rate sensitivity simulation model projected that net interest income would decrease by 0.15% if interest rates immediately rose by 200 basis points. The results of our interest rate sensitivity simulation model depend upon a number of assumptions which may not prove to be accurate. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully manage our interest rate risk. Our investment securities portfolio is subject to credit risk, market risk, and liquidity risk. The investment securities portfolio has risks factors beyond our control that may significantly influence its fair value. These risk factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency downgrades of the securities, defaults of the issuers of the securities, lack of market pricing of the securities, and instability in the credit markets. Lack of market activity with respect to some securities has, in certain circumstances, required us to base our fair market valuation on unobservable inputs. Any changes in these risk factors, in current accounting principles or interpretations of these principles could impact our assessment of fair value and thus our determination of other-than-temporary impairment of the securities in our investment securities portfolio. Investment securities that were determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired could require further write-downs the securities due to continued erosion of the creditworthiness of the underlying issuer which could affect our earnings and regulatory capital ratios. We are subject to liquidity risks. Market conditions could negatively affect the level or cost of liquidity available to us, which would affect our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner, and without adverse consequences. Core deposits and Federal Home Loan Bank advances are our primary source of funding. A significant decrease in our core deposits, an inability to renew Federal Home Loan Bank advances, an inability to obtain alternative funding to core deposits or Federal Home Loan Bank advances, or a substantial, unexpected, or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a negative effect on our business and financial condition. Potential impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill could negatively impact our earnings and capital. At December 31, 2010, we had goodwill totaling $76.8 million. Goodwill is initially recorded at fair value and is not amortized, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Given the current economic environment and conditions in the financial markets, we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to our normal annual assessment if we experience disruption in our business, unexpected significant declines in our operating results, or sustained market capitalization declines. These types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future. These non-cash impairment charges could adversely affect our results of operations in future periods. A goodwill impairment charge does not adversely affect any of our regulatory capital ratios or our tangible capital ratio. Based on our analyses, we determined that the fair value of our reporting units exceeded the carrying value of our assets and liabilities and, therefore, goodwill was not considered impaired at December 31, 2010. We rely on our management and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them may adversely affect our operations. We are and will continue to be dependent upon the services of our executive management team. In addition, we will continue to depend on our ability to retain and recruit key client relationship managers. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The market price for our common stock may be volatile. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated, ranging between $8.41 and $18.55 per share during the 12 months ended December 31, 2010. The overall market and the price of our common stock may experience volatility. There may be a significant impact on the market price for our common stock due to, among other things: · past and future dividend practice; · financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects; · quarterly variations in our operating results or the quality of our assets; · operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; · announcements of innovations, new products, strategic developments, significant contracts, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; 15 · the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us; · future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; · the credit, mortgage and housing markets, the markets for securities relating to mortgages or housing, and developments with respect to financial institutions generally; and · changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity or real estate valuations or volatility or other geopolitical, regulatory or judicial events. There can be no assurance that a more active or consistent trading market in our common stock will develop. As a result, relatively small trades could have a significant impact on the price of our common stock. We may fail to realize the cost savings we estimate for mergers and acquisitions. The success of our mergers and acquisitions may depend, in part, on our ability to realize the estimated cost savings from combining the businesses. It is possible that the potential cost savings could turn out to be more difficult to achieve than we anticipated. Our cost savings estimates also depend on our ability to combine the businesses in a manner that permits those cost savings to be realized. If our estimates turn out to be incorrect or we are not able to combine successfully, the anticipated cost savings may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. Combining acquired businesses with Sandy Spring may be more difficult, costly, or time-consuming than we expect, or could result in the loss of customers. It is possible that the process of merger integration of acquired companies could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the ability to maintain relationships with clients and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger or acquisition. There also may be disruptions that cause us to lose customers or cause customers to withdraw their deposits. Customers may not readily accept changes to their banking arrangements or other customer relationships after the merger or acquisition. Competition may decrease our growth or profits. We compete for loans, deposits, and investment dollars with other banks and other financial institutions and enterprises, such as securities firms, insurance companies, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage brokers, and private lenders, many of which have substantially greater resources than ours. Credit unions have federal tax exemptions, which may allow them to offer lower rates on loans and higher rates on deposits than taxpaying financial institutions such as commercial banks. In addition, non-depository institution competitors are generally not subject to the extensive regulation applicable to institutions that offer federally insured deposits. Other institutions may have other competitive advantages in particular markets or may be willing to accept lower profit margins on certain products. These differences in resources, regulation, competitive advantages, and business strategy may decrease our net interest margin, increase our operating costs, and may make it harder for us to compete profitably. Government regulation significantly affects our business. The banking industry is heavily regulated. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect the federal deposit insurance funds and depositors, not shareholders. Sandy Spring Bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and by Maryland banking authorities. Sandy Spring Bancorp is subject to regulation and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The burdens imposed by federal and state regulations put banks at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors such as finance companies, mortgage banking companies, and leasing companies. Changes in the laws, regulations, and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may increase our costs of doing business or otherwise adversely affect us and create competitive advantages for others. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, and we cannot predict the ultimate effect of these changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition. Federal economic and monetary policy may also affect our ability to attract deposits and other funding sources, make loans and investments, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by law and contract. Our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders largely depends on Sandy Spring Bancorp’s receipt of dividends from Sandy Spring Bank. The amount of dividends that Sandy Spring Bank may pay to Sandy Spring Bancorp is limited by federal laws and regulations. The ability of Sandy Spring Bank to pay dividends is also subject to its profitability, financial condition and cash flow requirements. There is no assurance that Sandy Spring Bank will be able to pay dividends to Sandy Spring Bancorp in the future. We may decide to limit the payment of dividends even when we have the legal ability to pay them in order to retain earnings for use in our business. We also are prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock if the required payments on our subordinated debentures have not been made. Restrictions on unfriendly acquisitions could prevent a takeover. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could discourage takeover attempts that are not approved by the board of directors. The Maryland General Corporation Law includes provisions that make an acquisition of Sandy Spring Bancorp more difficult. These provisions may prevent a future takeover attempt in which our shareholders otherwise might receive a substantial premium for their shares over then-current market prices. 16 These provisions include supermajority provisions for the approval of certain business combinations and certain provisions relating to meetings of shareholders. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes the issuance of additional shares without shareholder approval on terms or in circumstances that could deter a future takeover attempt. Future sales of our common stock or other securities may dilute the value and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In many situations, our board of directors has the authority, without any vote of our shareholders, to issue shares of our authorized but unissued stock, including shares authorized and unissued under our omnibus stock plan. In the future, we may issue additional securities, through public or private offerings, in order to raise additional capital. Any such issuance would dilute the percentage of ownership interest of existing shareholders and may dilute the per share book value of the common stock. In addition, option holders may exercise their options at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on more favorable terms. Changes in the Federal or State tax laws may negatively impact our financial performance. The Company is subject to changes in tax law that could increase the effective tax rate payable to the state or federal government. These law changes may be retroactive to previous periods and as a result, could negatively affect the current and future financial performance of the Company. Volatile and illiquid financial markets resulting from a significant event in the market may hinder our ability to increase or maintain our current liquidity position. Financial concerns in broad based financial sectors such as mortgage banking or homebuilding may result in a volatile and illiquid bond market and may reduce or eliminate the Company’s ability to pledge certain types of assets to increase or maintain its liquidity position. A decline in the Company’s liquidity position may hinder its ability to grow the balance sheet through internally generated loan growth or through acquisitions. We may be subject to litigation risk. In the normal course of business, the Company may become involved in litigation, the outcome of which may have a direct material impact on our financial position and daily operations. Our financial results may be subject to the impact of changes in accounting standards or interpretation of new or existing standards. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the SEC change accounting regulations and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s financial statements. In addition, the FASB, SEC, bank regulators and the outside independent auditors may revise their previous interpretations regarding existing accounting regulations and the application of these accounting standards. These revisions in their interpretations are out of the Company’s control and may have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 