ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the following risk factors before making an investment decision with respect to the Company’s securities. You are cautioned that the risk factors discussed below are not exhaustive. We have accumulated losses. We have incurred losses in every fiscal year in our 27 years since inception except in four fiscal years. As of September 30, 2014 we had an accumulated deficit of $20,013,000. We may have a loss for the current fiscal year ending September 30, 2015 or we may not be profitable. If we are unable to continue to increase same store sales at existing restaurants, our ability to attain profitability may be adversely affected. We must increase same store sales at our existing restaurants to attain profitability, which we have done for the past 17 consecutive quarters. Sales increases will depend in part on the success of our advertising and promotion of new and existing menu items and consumer acceptance. We cannot assure that our advertising and promotional efforts will in fact be successful. If our same store sales decrease, and our other operating costs increase, our ability to attain profitability will be adversely affected. New restaurants, when and if opened, may not be profitable, if at all, for several months. We anticipate that our new restaurants, when and if opened, will generally take several months to reach normalized operating levels due to inefficiencies typically associated with new restaurants, including lack of market awareness, the need to hire and train a sufficient number of employees, operating costs, which are often materially greater during the first several months of operation than thereafter, pre-opening costs and other factors. In addition, restaurants opened in new markets may 13 open at lower average weekly sales volumes than restaurants opened in existing markets, and may have higher restaurant-level operating expense ratios than in existing markets. Sales at restaurants opened in new markets may take longer to reach average annual company-owned restaurant sales, if at all, thereby affecting the profitability of these restaurants. Our operations are susceptible to the cost of and changes in food availability which could adversely affect our operating results. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food costs. Various factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions, governmental regulation, production, availability, recalls of food products and seasonality may affect our food costs or cause a disruption in our supply chain. We enter into annual contracts with our chicken and other miscellaneous suppliers. Our contracts for chicken are fixed price contracts. Our contracts for beef are generally based on current market prices plus a processing fee. Changes in the price or availability of chicken or beef or other commodities could materially adversely affect our profitability. We cannot predict whether we will be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs by adjusting our purchasing practices and menu prices, and a failure to do so could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, because we provide a “value-priced” product, we may not be able to pass along price increases to our customers. Macroeconomic conditions could affect our operating results. The recent economic downturn, continuing disruptions in the overall economy, including the ongoing impacts of the housing crisis, high unemployment and financial and market volatility, and the related declines in business and consumer confidence, adversely affected customer traffic and sales throughout the restaurant industry, including the QSR category. For example, our same store sales decreased in fiscal 2008, fiscal 2009 and the first ten months of fiscal 2010. If the economy experiences another downturn or there are continued uncertainties regarding economic recovery, consumer spending may be affected, which may adversely affect our sales in the future. A proliferation of heavy discounting by our major competitors may also negatively affect our sales and operating results. Price increases may impact customer visits. We may make price increases on selected menu items in order to offset increased operating expenses we believe will be recurring. Although we have not experienced significant consumer resistance to our past price increases, future price increases may deter customers from visiting our restaurants or affect their purchasing decisions. The hamburger restaurant market is highly competitive. The hamburger restaurant market is highly competitive. Our competitors in the QSR segment include many recognized national and regional fast-food hamburger restaurant chains, such as McDonald’s, Burger King, Wendy’s, Carl’s Jr., Sonic, Jack in the Box, Freddy’s and Culver’s. We also compete with small regional and local hamburger and other fast-food restaurants, many of which feature drive-through service. Most of our competitors have greater financial resources, marketing programs and name recognition than we do. Discounting by our QSR competitors may adversely affect the revenues and profitability of our restaurants. While Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar operates in the “better burger” restaurant segment, it offers a relatively broad menu and competes with other full service restaurants such as Chili’s, Red Robin and other local and regional full service restaurants. Additionally, customers of both our Good Times Burgers & Frozen Custard restaurants and new Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar restaurants are also customers of fast casual hamburger restaurants such as Five Guys Burgers & Fries and Smashburger. Sites for new restaurants may be difficult to acquire. Location of our restaurants in high-traffic and readily accessible areas is an important factor for our success. Our Good Times Burgers & Frozen Custard drive-through restaurants require sites with specific characteristics and there are a limited number of suitable sites available in our geographic markets. Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar restaurants will be operated out of leased in-line and end-cap retail locations as opposed to freestanding Good Times Burgers & Frozen Custard locations. Since suitable locations are in great demand, in the future we may not be able to obtain optimal sites for either of our restaurant concepts at a reasonable cost. In addition, we cannot assure you that the sites we do obtain will be successful. If our franchisees cannot develop or finance new restaurants, build them on suitable sites or open them on schedule, our growth and success may be impeded. Franchisees may not be able to negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the sites, obtain the necessary permits and government approvals or meet construction schedules. From time to time in the past, we have agreed to extend or modify development schedules and we may do so in the future. Any of these problems could slow our growth and reduce our franchise revenues. Additionally, our franchisees depend upon financing from banks and other financial institutions in order to construct and open new restaurants. Difficulty in obtaining adequate financing adversely affects the number and rate of new restaurant openings by our franchisees and adversely affects our future franchise revenues. We do not presently have any franchised restaurants under development. 14 Our franchisees could take actions that could harm our business. Franchisees are independent contractors and are not our employees. We provide training and support to franchisees; however, franchisees operate their restaurants as independent businesses. Consequently, the quality of franchised restaurant operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Moreover, franchisees may not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements, or may not hire and train qualified managers and other restaurant personnel. Our image and reputation, and the image and reputation of other franchisees, may suffer materially, and system-wide sales could significantly decline, if our franchisees do not operate successfully. We depend on key management employees. We believe our current operations and future success depend largely on the continued services of our management employees, in particular Boyd E. Hoback, our president and chief executive officer, and Scott LeFever, our vice president of operations. Although we have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Hoback, he may voluntarily terminate his employment with us at any time. In addition, we do not currently maintain key-person insurance on Messrs. Hoback’s or LeFever’s life. The loss of Messrs. Hoback’s or LeFever’s services, or other key management personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Labor shortages could slow our growth or harm our business. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified, high-energy employees. Qualified individuals needed to fill these positions are in short supply in some areas. The inability to recruit and retain these individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants or result in high employee turnover in existing restaurants, which could harm our business. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages to attract sufficient employees, which could result in higher labor costs. Most of our employees are paid on an hourly basis. The employees are paid in accordance with applicable minimum wage regulations. Accordingly, any increase in the minimum wage, whether state or federal, could have a material adverse impact on our business. We are subject to extensive government regulation that may adversely hinder or impact our ability to govern various aspects of our business including our ability to expand and develop our restaurants. The restaurant industry is subject to various federal, state and local government regulations, including those relating to the sale of food. While in the past we have been able to obtain and maintain the necessary governmental licenses, permits and approvals, our failure to maintain these licenses, permits and approvals, including food licenses, could adversely affect our operating results. Difficulties or failures in obtaining the required licenses and approvals could delay or result in our decision to cancel the opening of new restaurants. Local authorities may suspend or deny renewal of our food licenses if they determine that our conduct does not meet applicable standards or if there are changes in regulations. Various federal and state labor laws govern our relationship with our employees and affect operating costs. These laws govern minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, meal and rest breaks, unemployment tax rates, workers’ compensation rates, citizenship or residency requirements, child labor regulations and sales taxes. Additional government-imposed increases in minimum wages, overtime pay, paid leaves of absence and mandated health benefits may increase our operating costs. The federal Americans with Disabilities Act prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. Although our restaurants are designed to be accessible to the disabled, we could be required to make modifications to our restaurants to provide service to, or make reasonable accommodations for, disabled persons. We are also subject to federal and state laws that regulate the offer and sale of franchises and aspects of the licensor-licensee relationship. Many state franchise laws impose restrictions on the franchise agreement, including limitations on non-competition provisions and the termination or non-renewal of a franchise. Some states require that franchise materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in the state. Our Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar restaurants will also be subject to state and local laws that regulate the sale of alcoholic beverages. Alcoholic beverage control regulations will govern various aspects of these restaurants’ daily operations, including the minimum age of patrons and employees, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing and inventory control, handling and storage. Typically, licenses to sell alcoholic beverages will require annual renewal and may be suspended or revoked at any time for cause, the definition of which varies by locality. The failure of any of our Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar restaurants to timely obtain and maintain any required licenses, permits or approvals to serve alcoholic beverages could delay or prevent the opening of a new restaurant or prevent regular day-to-day operations, including the sale of alcoholic beverages, at a restaurant that is already operating, any of which would adversely affect our business. 15 Health concerns relating to the consumption of beef, chicken or other food products could affect consumer preferences and could negatively impact our results of operations. Like other restaurant chains, consumer preferences could be affected by health concerns about the avian influenza, also known as bird flu, or the consumption of beef, the key ingredient in many of our menu items, or negative publicity concerning food quality, illness and injury generally, such as negative publicity concerning E. coli, “mad cow” or “foot-and-mouth” disease, publication of government or industry findings concerning food products served by us, or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one restaurant or a limited number of restaurants. This negative publicity may adversely affect demand for our food and could result in a decrease in customer traffic to our restaurants. If we react to the negative publicity by changing our concept or our menu we may lose customers who do not prefer the new concept or menu, and we may not be able to attract a sufficient new customer base to produce the revenue needed to make our restaurants profitable. In addition, we may have different or additional competitors for our intended customers as a result of a concept change and may not be able to compete successfully against those competitors. A decrease in customer traffic to our restaurants as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity or as a result of a change in our menu or concept could materially harm our business. Risks Related to Bad Daddy’s Relationship Our ability to succeed with the Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar restaurant concept will require significant capital expenditures and management attention. We believe that new openings of Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar restaurants are likely to serve as a contributor of our new unit growth and increased profitability over the longer term based on the unit economics of that concept. Our ability to succeed with this new concept will require significant capital expenditures and management attention and is subject to certain risks in addition to those of opening a new Good Times Burgers & Frozen Custard restaurant, including customer acceptance of and competition with the Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar concept. If the “ramp-up” period for new Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar restaurants does not meet our expectations, our operating results may be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop and grow the Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar concept to a point where it will become profitable or generate positive cash flow. We may not be able to attract enough customers to meet targeted levels of performance at new Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar restaurants because potential customers may be unfamiliar with the concept or the atmosphere or menu might not be appealing to them. If we cannot successfully execute our growth strategies for Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our growth, including the development of Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar restaurants, may strain our management and infrastructure. In addition to new openings of Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar restaurants, we also plan to remodel and reimage existing Good Times Burgers & Frozen Custard restaurants. In addition, we believe there may be opportunities to open or franchise new Good Times Burgers & Frozen Custard restaurants from time to time. This growth will increase our operating complexity and place increased demands on our management and infrastructure, including our current restaurant management systems, financial and management controls, and information systems. If our infrastructure is insufficient to support our growth, our ability to open new restaurants, including the development of the Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar concept, would be adversely affected. Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar is subject to all of the risks of a relatively new business, including competition, and there is no guarantee of a return on our capital investment into BDFD or BD of Colo. Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar is a relatively new business concept. Existing Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar restaurants have been in existence for approximately five years and are currently located in North Carolina and South Carolina. Because of the small number of existing Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar restaurants and the relatively short period of time that they have been in operation, there is substantial uncertainty that additional restaurants in other locations will be successful. There is no guarantee that BDFD will be successful in offering Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar franchises throughout the U.S. or that, if and when such franchises are granted, the restaurants developed by franchisees will be successful. There is also substantial uncertainty that the BDFD franchising business will be successful in view of the facts that BDFD has sold only two Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar restaurant franchises to date and that the restaurant franchising business is very competitive. If BDFD is unsuccessful in attracting Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar franchisees and accordingly attaining broad-based consumer recognition of the Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar restaurants, it could adversely affect the revenues of the Company’s Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar restaurants. Under the operating agreement of BDFD, there will be no distribution of any net cash profits during the first three years unless approved by all the Class A members of BDFD. We have acquired a 48% voting ownership interest in BDFD in exchange for an initial capital contribution of $750,000, of which we paid the first $375,000 installment on April 15, 2013 and we paid the second $375,000 installment in December 2013. The operating agreement of BDFD provides that the Company and BDI may be required to make additional capital contributions to BDFD of up to an aggregate of $1,000,000 upon written request of BDFD’s Board of Managers. Such additional capital contributions, if required, will be in accordance with the Company’s and BDI’s then respective percentage interests in 16 BDFD. Accordingly, the Company’s portion of such additional capital contributions, if required, prior to any change in BDFD ownership, will be up to $480,000. If the additional capital contributions are required under the BDFD operating agreement, the Company intends to pay its required portion out of working capital reserves. However, if the Company does not have sufficient working capital reserves at the time the capital call is made, the Company may have to obtain funds from other sources and such funds may not be available to the Company on favorable terms or at all. Under the operating agreement of BDFD, there will be no distribution of any net cash profits during the first three years unless approved by all the Class A members of BDFD. Thus, we may not receive any return on our initial capital contribution to BDFD, or any subsequent additional capital contribution we may be required to make, during the first three years of BDFD’s operations. The Company does not have a majority voting interest in BDFD and the Company’s Management Services Agreement with BDFD has a limited term of three years. The Company has acquired a 48% voting membership interest in BDFD, with the remaining 52% voting membership interest in BDFD currently held by BDI. The operating agreement of BDFD provides that BDFD will be managed by its five-member Board of Managers, which currently consists of three members designated by BDI and two members designated by the Company. Accordingly, the Company does not have a majority voting interest in BDFD, nor does it control a majority of the Board of Managers. As a consequence, the Company will not be able to control certain decisions regarding BDFD. Among other things, the annual budget of BDFD will be approved by a majority of the Board of Managers, which majority may be achieved without the participation of the Company’s designated managers. The Company will provide management services to BDFD pursuant to the terms of a Management Services Agreement. However, the term of the Management Services Agreement between the Company and BDFD is limited to three years and may be terminated earlier in accordance with the terms of the agreement. Among other things, BDFD may terminate the Management Services Agreement prior to the end of its three-year term based on the failure of BDFD to achieve certain franchise sales goals. If BDFD terminates the Management Services Agreement prior to the end of its three-year term, or if the Management Services Agreement is not renewed by the parties at the end of three years, the Company will not have a right to manage BDFD or receive any management fee in connection therewith. If the Company fails to comply with the development schedule under its license agreement with BDFD, it will lose its exclusive development rights in Colorado and its additional development rights in Oklahoma and Kansas. The License Agreement requires that BD of Colo develop at least two restaurants per year in Colorado over a five-year period, after which BD of Colo may elect to develop additional Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar restaurants in Colorado in numbers determined by it. In the event that the Company fails to comply with such development schedule, then (i) the Company’s right to develop any additional Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar restaurants in Colorado under the License Agreement will thereafter terminate automatically and (ii) BDFD may establish, operate or grant to other third parties the right to establish or operate Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar restaurants in Colorado (subject to BD of Colo’s territory rights with respect to any existing restaurant). Accordingly, if BD of Colo fails to meet its development schedule, it will lose its exclusive right to develop Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar restaurants in Colorado. In addition, pursuant to the operating agreement of BDFD, BD of Colo has a right to develop Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar restaurants in Oklahoma and Kansas (to the extent that such territory is not then subject to development rights by or part of the protected territory right of any third party franchisee) subject to approval of BDFD’s Board of Managers, conditioned on certain performance requirements with respect to its Colorado restaurants, and pursuant to a minimum development schedule to be agreed upon with BDFD for Kansas and Oklahoma. If BD of Colo fails to meet such performance results with respect to its Colorado restaurants or fails to meet its development schedule for Oklahoma or Kansas, it will not have any right to develop additional Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar restaurants in Oklahoma and Kansas. If the Company’s license agreement with BDFD is terminated, the Company will lose all rights to use the Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar name and intellectual property. The Company has entered into a license agreement with BDFD for an initial term of 10 years, which is thereafter renewable by the Company for two additional 10-year terms. The license agreement may be terminated by BDFD in the event of any uncured default by the Company thereunder. In the event of termination, the license agreement provides that BDFD will have an option to purchase the Company’s Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar restaurants for a price mutually agreed by the parties or their independently appraised value. Alternatively, if BDFD does not exercise its purchase option, the Company must modify the restaurants to eliminate the use of the Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar name and intellectual property. If any of such events were to occur, our results of operations would be adversely affected. 17 BDI has a drag-along right regarding the Company’s interest in BDFD in the event that BDI proposes to sell its interests in BDFD after the fifth anniversary of the Company’s investment in BDFD. The operating agreement contains drag-along rights allowing BDI to require the Company to participate in a proposed sale of BDFD or all of its outstanding ownership interests if approved by BDI and its designated managers at any time after April 15, 2018 (the fifth anniversary of the Company’s investment in BDFD), subject to certain conditions. Thus, after five years, BDI could force the Company to sell its membership interest in BDFD in a transaction which is not approved by the Company or its designated managers of BDFD and which may not be in the Company’s best interest. That is, with regard to such a forced sale what may be deemed by BDI for its own particular reasons and circumstances to be an advantageous time for it to sell its interest in BDFD may be a disadvantageous time for the Company to sell under its particular circumstances. Conflicts of interest may arise as a result of the Company’s status as a substantial owner of BDFD and its status as a licensee of BDFD. The Company is both a 48% owner of BDFD and a licensee of BDFD. In its capacity as a substantial owner and manager of BDFD, the Company will be obligated to require BDFD franchisees to comply with all of the terms of their franchise agreements. This in turn may make it unfeasible as a practical matter for BD of Colo to obtain consents from BDFD for variations of such terms that the Company believes are appropriate for the particular circumstances of the BD of Colo restaurants. For example, the Company may wish to be able to add a non-standard menu item to its Bad Daddy’s Burger Bar restaurants which will be uniquely popular in a particular geographic location which under such circumstances BDFD would normally allow but which it would not wish to allow for other licensees. In that event, BDFD may nonetheless not permit such a variation by the Company because of a possible claim that it is preferentially treating a BDFD insider. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Securities Our principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. Small Island Investments Limited, Rest Redux, LLC and Hoak Public Equities, LP together beneficially own approximately 23% of our outstanding common stock. This concentration of ownership and voting power may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and therefore may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. Future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected operating results and affect our reported results of operations. Changes in accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. See Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or differing interpretations with respect to our current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results. Our NASDAQ Listing Is Important. Our Common Stock is currently listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market. The NASDAQ maintenance rules require, among other things, that our common stock price remains above $1.00 per share and that we have minimum stockholders’ equity of $2.5 million. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Keeping abreast of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and The NASDAQ Market rules, has required an increased amount of management attention and expense. We remain committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment has resulted in and will continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Risks related to internal controls. Public companies in the United States are required to review their internal controls as set forth in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. It should be noted that any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. If the internal controls put in place by us are not adequate or in conformity with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, we may be forced to restate our financial statements and take other actions which will take significant financial and managerial resources, as well as be subject to fines and other government enforcement actions. 18 Because we currently qualify as a “smaller reporting company,” our non-financial and financial information are less than is required by non-smaller reporting companies. Currently we qualify as a “smaller reporting company.” The “smaller reporting company” category includes companies that (1) have a common equity public float of less than $75 million or (2) are unable to calculate their public float and have annual revenue of $50 million or less, upon entering the system. A smaller reporting company prepares and files SEC reports and registration statements using the same forms as other SEC reporting companies, though the information required to be disclosed may differ and be less comprehensive. Regulation S-X contains the SEC requirements for financial statements, while Regulation S-K contains the non-financial disclosure requirements. To locate the scaled disclosure requirements, smaller reporting companies will refer to the special paragraphs labeled “smaller reporting companies” in Regulation S-K. As an example only, smaller reporting companies are not required to make risk factor disclosure in Item 1A of Form 10-K. Other disclosure required by non-smaller reporting companies can be omitted in Form 10-K and Form 10-Q by smaller reporting companies. Risks Relating to Prior Securities Issuances Issuances of our securities are subject to federal and state securities laws, and certain holders of common stock issued by us may be entitled to rescission in connection with certain sales of shares using a prospectus that did not meet the requirements of Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act. Issuances of securities are subject to federal and state securities laws. Between May 21, 2014 and August 20, 2014, the Company issued 484,600 shares of common stock upon exercise by certain security holders holding A Warrants for an aggregate purchase price of $1,332,650. The Company issued these shares on the belief that the shares were registered pursuant to the Company’s registration statement on Form S-1, originally filed with and made effective by the SEC on August 15, 2013 (the “Initial Registration Statement”), and that the issuance did not require a new or updated registration statement. The Company became aware that the SEC does not view the shares underlying warrants as being “sold” for securities law purposes until the warrants are exercised, and therefore it is the view of the SEC that the Company should have filed a post-effective amendment to the Initial Registration Statement prior to issuing these shares. The sale of these shares upon exercise of the A Warrants was therefore not made in compliance with federal and state securities laws because the prospectus did not meet the requirements of Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act. Consequently, the holders of A Warrants who purchased such shares may seek to rescind the sale, in which case we could be liable for rescission payments to them in the amount of their aggregate original purchase price plus applicable interest. If one or more investors were to successfully seek such rescission or prevail in any such suit, we could face financial demands that could materially and adversely affect our financial position. As of the date hereof, we have not received any claims for rescission or damages or claims relating to any other liability stemming from our issuance of these shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 