ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the following risk factors before making an investment decision with respect to Good Times Restaurants' securities. You are cautioned that the risk factors discussed below are not exhaustive. We have accumulated losses. We have incurred losses in every fiscal year since inception except 1999, 2002, 2006 and 2007. As of September 30, 2010 we had an accumulated deficit of $16,737,000. We cannot assure you that we will not have a loss for the current fiscal year ending September 30, 2011. As of September 30, 2010, we had a working capital deficit of $1,869,000. We must sustain same store sales increases. We must sustain same store sales increases in existing restaurants to sustain profitability and we experienced declines in our same store sales in fiscal 2008, fiscal 2009 and the first ten months of fiscal 2010. Sales increases will depend in part on the success of our advertising and promotion of new and existing menu items and consumer acceptance. We cannot assure that our advertising and promotional efforts will in fact be successful. New restaurants, when and if opened, may not be profitable, if at all, for several months. We anticipate that our new restaurants, when and if opened, will generally take several months to reach normalized operating levels due to inefficiencies typically associated with new restaurants, including lack of market awareness, the need to hire and train a sufficient number of employees, operating costs, which are often materially greater during the first several months of operation than thereafter, pre-opening costs and other factors. In addition, restaurants opened in new markets may open at lower average weekly sales volumes than restaurants opened in existing markets, and may have higher restaurant-level operating expense ratios than in existing markets. Sales at restaurants opened in new markets may take longer to reach average annual company-owned restaurant sales, if at all, thereby affecting the profitability of these restaurants. Our operations are susceptible to the cost of and changes in food availability which could adversely affect our operating results. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food costs. Various factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions, governmental regulation, production, availability, recalls of food products and seasonality may affect our food costs or cause a disruption in our supply chain. We enter into annual contracts with our beef and chicken suppliers. Our contracts for chicken are fixed price contracts. Our contracts for beef are generally based on current market prices plus a processing fee. Changes in the price or availability of chicken or beef could materially adversely affect our profitability. We cannot predict whether we will be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs by adjusting our purchasing practices and menu prices, and a failure to do so could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, because we provide a "value-priced" product, we may not be able to pass along price increases to our guests. The macroeconomic recession could affect our operating results. The current state of the economy and decreased consumer spending have adversely affected our sales over the last eighteen months and may continue to cause material negative sales trends. A continued shift in consumer purchases toward $1 value menus in our competitive segment and a proliferation of heavy discounting by our major competitors may also continue to negatively affect our sales and operating results. 10 Price increases may impact guest visits. We may make price increases on selected menu items in order to offset increased operating expenses we believe will be recurring. Although we have not experienced significant consumer resistance to our past price increases, we cannot provide assurance that this or other future price increases will not deter guests from visiting our restaurants or affect their purchasing decisions. The hamburger restaurant market is highly competitive. The hamburger restaurant market is highly competitive. Our competitors include many recognized national and regional fast-food hamburger restaurant chains such as McDonald's, Burger King, Wendy's, Carl's Jr., Sonic, Jack in the Box and Culver's. We also compete with small regional and local hamburger and other fast-food restaurants, many of which feature drive-through service. Most of our competitors have greater financial resources, marketing programs and name recognition. All of the major hamburger chains have increasingly offered selected food items and combination meals at discounted prices and have recently intensified their promotions of value priced meals. Continued discounting by competitors may adversely affect the revenues and profitability of our restaurants. Sites may be difficult to acquire. Location of our restaurants in high-traffic and readily accessible areas is an important factor for our success. Drive-through restaurants require sites with specific characteristics and there are a limited number of suitable sites available in our geographic markets. Since suitable locations are in great demand, in the future we may not be able to obtain optimal sites at a reasonable cost. In addition, we cannot assure you that the sites we do obtain will be successful. We will require additional financing. In order to fully develop the Denver and Colorado Springs/Pueblo markets and to expand into markets outside of Colorado, we will require additional financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to access sufficient capital to adequately finance our operations and our planned developments or that additional financing will be available on reasonable terms. The current economic recession and status of the capital markets may adversely affect our ability to acquire additional debt or equity financing for working capital, new restaurant development, or refinancing of existing funding agreements. If our franchisees cannot develop or finance new restaurants, build them on suitable sites or open them on schedule, our growth and success may be impeded. Under our current form of area development agreement, some franchisees must develop a predetermined number of restaurants according to a schedule that lasts for the term of their development agreement. Franchisees may not have access to the financial or management resources that they need to open the restaurants required by their development schedules, or may be unable to find suitable sites on which to develop them. Franchisees may not be able to negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the sites, obtain the necessary permits and government approvals or meet construction schedules. From time to time in the past, we have agreed to extend or modify development schedules and we may do so in the future. Any of these problems could slow our growth and reduce our franchise revenues. Additionally, our franchisees depend upon financing from banks and other financial institutions in order to construct and open new restaurants. Difficulty in obtaining adequate financing would adversely affect the number and rate of new restaurant openings by our franchisees and adversely affect our future franchise revenues. Our franchisees could take actions that could harm our business. Franchisees are independent contractors and are not our employees. We provide training and support to franchisees; however, franchisees operate their restaurants as independent businesses. Consequently, the quality of franchised restaurant operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Moreover, franchisees may not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements, or may not hire and train qualified managers and other restaurant personnel. Our image and reputation, and the image and reputation of other franchisees, may suffer materially, and system-wide sales could significantly decline, if our franchisees do not operate successfully. We depend on key management employees. We believe our current operations and future success depend largely on the continued services of our management employees, in particular Boyd E. Hoback, our president and chief executive officer, and Scott Lefever, our vice president of operations. Although we have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Hoback, he may voluntarily terminate his employment with us at any time. In addition, we do not maintain key-person insurance on Messrs. Hoback's or Lefever's life. The loss of Messrs. Hoback's or Lefever's services, or other key management personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 11 Labor shortages could slow our growth or harm our business. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified, high-energy employees. Qualified individuals needed to fill these positions are in short supply in some areas. The inability to recruit and retain these individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants or result in high employee turnover in existing restaurants, which could harm our business. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages to attract sufficient employees, which could result in higher labor costs. Most of our employees are paid on an hourly basis. The employees are paid in accordance with applicable minimum wage regulations. Accordingly, any increase in the minimum wage, whether state or federal, could have a material adverse impact on our business. Nevada law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws have provisions that discourage corporate takeovers and could prevent stockholders from realizing a premium on their investment. We are subject to anti-takeover laws for Nevada corporations. These anti-takeover laws prevent a Nevada corporation from engaging in a business combination with any stockholder, including all affiliates and associates of the stockholder, who owns 10% or more of the corporation's outstanding voting stock, for three years following the date that the stockholder acquired 10% or more of the corporation's voting stock, unless specified conditions are met. Our articles of incorporation and our bylaws contain a number of provisions that may deter or impede takeovers or changes of control or management. These provisions: • authorize our Board of Directors to establish one or more series of preferred stock, the terms of which can be determined by the Board of Directors at the time of issuance; • do not allow for cumulative voting in the election of directors unless required by applicable law. Under cumulative voting, a minority stockholder holding a sufficient percentage of a class of shares may be able to ensure the election of one or more directors; • state that special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board, the president or any two directors, and must be called by the president upon the written request of the holders of ten percent of the outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote at such special meeting; and • provide that the authorized number of directors is currently set at seven. These provisions, alone or in combination with each other, may discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to stockholders for their common stock. We have a controlling stockholder. As a result of the SII Investment Transaction, SII beneficially owns approximately 51.4% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, SII has the right, for so long as it owns more than 50% of our outstanding common stock, to designate a majority of our Board of Directors. SII therefore has the ability to alter the strategic direction and/or capital structure of the Company. Future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected operating results and affect our reported results of operations. Changes in accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. As an example, in 2006, we adopted the change that requires us to record compensation expense in the statement of operations for employee stock options using the fair value method. See Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or differing interpretations with respect to our current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results. Our NASDAQ Listing Is Important. Our Common Stock is currently listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market. The NASDAQ maintenance rules require, among other things, that our common stock price remains above $1.00 per share and that we have minimum stockholders' equity of $2.5 million. During fiscal 2010, the Company received notices of non-compliance with both the minimum bid price and minimum stockholders' equity continued listing requirements. The completion of the SII Investment Transaction has helped the Company to regain compliance with the minimum stockholders' equity requirement. In addition, our Board of Directors, with the prior approval of our stockholders, has approved a one-for-three reverse stock split to take effect on December 31, 2010, which will allow us to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. We are subject to extensive government regulation that may adversely hinder or impact our ability to govern various aspects of our business including our ability to expand and develop our restaurants. The restaurant industry is subject to various federal, state and local government regulations, including those relating to the sale of food. While in 12 the past we have been able to obtain and maintain the necessary governmental licenses, permits and approvals, our failure to maintain these licenses, permits and approvals, including food licenses, could adversely affect our operating results. Difficulties or failures in obtaining the required licenses and approvals could delay or result in our decision to cancel the opening of new restaurants. Local authorities may suspend or deny renewal of our food licenses if they determine that our conduct does not meet applicable standards or if there are changes in regulations. Various federal and state labor laws govern our relationship with our employees and affect operating costs. These laws govern minimum wage requirements, such as those to be imposed by recently enacted legislation in Colorado, overtime pay, meal and rest breaks, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship or residency requirements, child labor regulations and sales taxes. Additional government-imposed increases in minimum wages, overtime pay, paid leaves of absence and mandated health benefits may increase our operating costs. The federal Americans with Disabilities Act prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. Although our restaurants are designed to be accessible to the disabled, we could be required to make modifications to our restaurants to provide service to, or make reasonable accommodations for, disabled persons. We are also subject to federal and state laws that regulate the offer and sale of franchises and aspects of the licensor-licensee relationship. Many state franchise laws impose restrictions on the franchise agreement, including limitations on non-competition provisions and the termination or non-renewal of a franchise. Some states require that franchise materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in the state. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Keeping abreast of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and The NASDAQ Market rules, has required an increased amount of management attention and expense. We remain committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment has resulted in and will continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Risks related to internal controls. Public companies in the United States are required to review their internal controls as set forth in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. It should be noted that any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. If the internal controls put in place by us are not adequate or in conformity with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, we may be forced to restate our financial statements and take other actions which will take significant financial and managerial resources, as well as be subject to fines and other government enforcement actions. Health concerns relating to the consumption of beef, chicken or other food products could affect consumer preferences and could negatively impact our results of operations. Like other restaurant chains, consumer preferences could be affected by health concerns about the avian influenza, also known as bird flu, or the consumption of beef, the key ingredient in many of our menu items, or negative publicity concerning food quality, illness and injury generally, such as negative publicity concerning E. coli, "mad cow" or "foot-and-mouth" disease, publication of government or industry findings concerning food products served by us, or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one restaurant or a limited number of restaurants. This negative publicity may adversely affect demand for our food and could result in a decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants. If we react to the negative publicity by changing our concept or our menu we may lose guests who do not prefer the new concept or menu, and may not be able to attract a sufficient new guest base to produce the revenue needed to make our restaurants profitable. In addition, we may have different or additional competitors for our intended guests as a result of a concept change and may not be able to compete successfully against those competitors. A decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity or as a result of a change in our menu or concept could materially harm our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 13 ITEM 