Risk Factors In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, set forth below are certain risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations or financial condition and cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. We rely on a single facility for the primary manufacturing and processing of our dosimetry services and products, and a single facility for the manufacturing and processing of our medical devices. Landauer conducts its primary dosimetry manufacturing and laboratory processing operations and performs significant functions for some of its international operations from a single facility in Glenwood, Illinois. The Company’s IZI subsidiary conducts its medical device manufacturing and operations from a single facility in Baltimore, Maryland. If the Company were to lose availability of either of these primary facilities due to fire, natural disaster or other disruptions, the Company’s operations could be significantly impaired. Despite the Company’s business continuity preparedness efforts, there can be no assurance that such plan could ensure the Company’s ability to rapidly respond to such disaster. Although the Company maintains business interruption insurance, there can be no assurance that the proceeds of such insurance would be sufficient to offset any loss the Company might incur or that the Company would be able to retain its customer base if operations were so disrupted. Increased IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, solutions and services. Increased global IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training; comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems; and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced persistent threats. Depending on their nature and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromising of confidential information; improper use of our systems and networks; manipulation and destruction of data; defective products; production downtimes; and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness, and operating results. We rely on a single source for the manufacturing of crystal material, a key component in our OSL technology, a single vendor for the manufacturing of InLight products and a single vendor for a key component of our medical devices. Crystal material is a key component in Landauer’s OSL technology. The Company operates a single crystal manufacturing facility in Stillwater, Oklahoma that currently supplies all OSL crystal radiation measurement material used by the Company. Although multiple sources for raw crystal material exist, there can be no assurance that the Company could secure another source to produce finished crystal materials to Landauer’s specification in the event of a disruption at the Stillwater facility. The InLight dosimetry system and its components are manufactured by Panasonic Communications Company under an exclusive agreement. IZI sources a key component of its medical accessories from a sole supplier. If the Company were to lose availability of its Stillwater facility or materials from Panasonic or IZI’s sole supplier due to a fire, natural disaster or other disruptions, such loss could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its operations. 8 Table of Contents If we are not successful in the development or introduction of new technologies, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Landauer’s radiation measurement business is a mature business and the number of workers being monitored for radiation exposure has not grown in recent years. Additionally, economic pressures can adversely affect the value of occupational measurement perceived by customers or increase pricing pressures. The Company believes that the development and introduction of new technologies and products will be essential to help counter these pressures. The Company regularly pursues product improvements to maintain its technical position. The development and introduction of new technologies, the adaptability of OSL to new platforms and new formats, the usefulness of older technologies as well as the introduction of new technologies by the competition present various risks to the Company’s business. The failure or lack of market acceptance of a new technology or the inability to respond to market requirements for new technology could adversely affect the Company’s operations or reputation with customers. The cancellation of technology projects or the cessation of use of an existing technology can result in write-downs and charges to the Company’s earnings. As a medical device accessory provider, introducing new products is critical to growing the Company’s business. If the Company does not manage its new product development projects on time or experiences unforeseen problems, the launch of those products would be put at risk which could have a negative effect on IZI’s revenue opportunity and the Company’s results of operations. The failure or lack of market acceptance of a new product or the inability to respond to market requirements for new technology could adversely affect the Company’s operations and reputation with customers. We may fail to adequately protect our customer data. In the normal course of operations, we collect and maintain confidential data from our customers. Our failure to adequately preserve the security of this data, whether due to technological failures or errors in or deviations from our data maintenance policies and procedures, could result in data loss or corruption. If we fail to adequately maintain and protect our customer data, we could be exposed to potential litigation from our customers, our reputation could be harmed, and we could lose existing and have difficulty attracting new members, all of which could adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to successfully execute business development activities and diversification such as the acquisition and integration of strategic businesses, our on-going business and results of operations may be adversely affected. A principal growth strategy of Landauer is to explore opportunities to selectively enhance its business through development activities, such as strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances. In furtherance of this objective, in November 2009, Landauer acquired GPS and Landauer Nordic AB. In November 2011, Landauer acquired IZI. In August 2012 the Company acquired a 49% minority interest in YFH, doing business as Aquila, a small business supplier to the International Atomic Energy Agency as well as the U.S. Military. The Company may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates or successfully negotiate, finance or integrate acquisitions. Covenants in the Company’s revolving credit facility may also limit the amount and types of indebtedness that it may incur to finance acquisitions. If the Company is unable to make further acquisitions, it may be unable to realize its growth strategy. Additionally, if the Company is unable to successfully manage acquisition risks, future earnings may be adversely affected. Acquisitions and other business development activities involve various significant challenges and risks, including the following: 9 Table of Contents Difficulty in acquiring desired businesses or assets on economically acceptable terms; Difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems and technology; Difficulty in consolidating facilities and infrastructure; Potential need to operate and manage new lines of business; Potential loss of key personnel; Diversion of management’s attention from on-going operations; Realization of satisfactory returns on investments; and Disputes with strategic partners, due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interest. Development activities could result in the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, interest and amortization expenses or periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets as well as significant charges related to integration costs. If the Company is unable to successfully integrate and manage businesses that it acquires within expected terms and in a timely manner, its business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Unforeseen problems with the stabilization and maintenance of our equipment and information systems could interfere with our operations. In the normal course of its business, Landauer must record and process significant amounts of data quickly and accurately and relies on various computer and telecommunications equipment and information technology systems. Any failure of such equipment or systems could adversely affect the Company’s operations. The Company has recently implemented a new enterprise resource planning solution to manage certain business operations of its’ Order to Cash, Procure to Pay, and Radiation Measurement - Reporting and Analysis business processes. The Company will continue to incur additional costs associated with stabilization and ongoing development of the new solution. As new applications and functionality are added in order to increase the efficiency of the Landauer workforce and business processes, the potential exists that unforeseen problems could arise. Such problems could adversely impact the Company’s operations, including the ability to perform the following in a timely manner: customer quotes, customer orders, product shipment, customer services and support, order billing and tracking, contractual obligations fulfillment and other related operations. Certain of our operations are conducted through joint ventures in which we rely significantly on our joint venture partners. A substantial portion of the Company’s operations are conducted through joint ventures with third parties. In Australia, Brazil, China, and Mexico, the Company has a controlling interest in the related joint ventures. The Company has a 50% interest in Nagase-Landauer, Ltd. located in Japan and Epsilon-Landauer located in Turkey as well as a 49% interest in YFH. In all of these joint ventures and others, Landauer relies significantly on the services and skills of its joint venture partners to manage and conduct the local operations and ensure compliance with local laws and regulations. If the joint venture partners were unable to perform these functions adequately, Landauer’s operations in such regions could be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents There can be no assurances that our operations will generate cash flows in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness. The Company’s ability to make scheduled payments on its existing or future debt obligations and fund operations will depend on its future financial and operating performance. While the Company believes it will continue to have sufficient cash flows to operate its businesses, there can be no assurances that its operations will generate sufficient cash flows to enable it to pay its remaining indebtedness or to fund its other liquidity needs. If the Company cannot make scheduled payments on its debt, the Company will be in default and, as a result, among other things, all outstanding principal and interest under its revolving credit facility will automatically be due and payable which could force the Company to liquidate certain assets or substantially restructure or alter its business operations or debt obligations. Moreover, if the Company is unable to obtain additional capital or if its current sources of financing are reduced or unavailable, the Company may be required to eliminate or reduce the scope of its plans for expansion and growth and this could affect its overall operations. If we experience decreasing prices for our goods and services and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our results of operations could suffer. The Company may experience decreasing prices for the goods and services it offers due to customer consolidation, increased influence of hospital group purchasing organizations, and pricing pressure experienced by its customers from managed care organizations and other third-party payers. Decreasing prices may also be due to increased market power of its customers as the medical industry consolidates and increased competition among dosimetry and physics services providers. If the prices for its goods and services decrease and it is unable to reduce its expenses, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected. The Company may also experience decreasing prices for the products offered by its medical device business due to potential changes in the reimbursement levels of hospitals and other customers. The customers and the other entities with which Landauer has a business relationship are affected by changes in statutes, regulations and limitations in governmental spending for Medicare, Medicaid and other programs. Recent government actions and future legislative and administrative changes could limit government spending for the Medicare and Medicaid programs, limit payments to hospitals and other providers, increase emphasis on competition, consolidation, or integrated delivery systems, impose price controls, initiate new and expanded value-based reimbursement programs and/or create other programs that potentially could have an adverse effect on the Company’s customers and the other entities with which it has a business relationship. If Landauer’s pricing experiences significant downward pressure, its business will be less profitable and its results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be subject to future impairment losses due to potential declines in the fair value of our assets. As a result of acquisitions and capital expenditures, we have goodwill, intangible assets, and fixed assets on our balance sheets. We test goodwill, intangible assets, and fixed assets for impairment on a periodic basis as required, and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The events or changes that could require us to test our goodwill, intangible assets, and fixed assets for impairment include a reduction in our stock price and market capitalization, changes in estimated future cash flows, changes in rates of growth in our industry or in any of our reporting units, and ceasing to use portions of our existing leased office space. The potential for goodwill impairment is increased during a period of economic uncertainty. To the extent we acquire a company at a negotiated price based on anticipated future performance, subsequent market conditions may result in the acquired business performing at a lower level than was anticipated at the time of the acquisition. Any of these charges would reduce our operating results and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. A slowing recovery in the United States, a prolonged recovery or second recession in Europe, and slowing growth in the global economy may result in declining performance that would require us to examine our goodwill for potential additional impairment. 11 Table of Contents We will continue to evaluate the carrying value of our remaining goodwill, intangible assets, and fixed assets, and if we determine in the future that there is a potential further impairment, we may be required to record additional losses, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Restrictions in our revolving credit facility could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company has a committed $175 million, secured revolving credit facility with BMO Harris Bank N.A. as administrative agent (“BMO Harris”), the lenders party thereto and PNC Bank, National Association as syndication agent (as amended, from time to time, the “BMO Harris facility”), that expires on November 14, 2016. The BMO Harris facility is secured by a first-priority perfected security interest in substantially all of the tangible and intangible assets of Landauer and its existing and future material domestic subsidiaries (the “Guarantors”), including a pledge of 100% of the stock of each domestic subsidiary and a pledge of 66% of the stock of each first-tier foreign subsidiary. The BMO Harris facility includes customary covenants for facilities of this type, including limitations on indebtedness, liens, investments and acquisitions, loans and advances, mergers and consolidations, sales of assets, and dividends, stock repurchases and other restricted payments. The BMO Harris Facility also contains certain financial covenants, including a minimum net worth of the Company and its subsidiaries of $60 million, a maximum leverage ratio ranging between 3.00 to 1.00 and 2.50 to 1.00 as applicable for each fiscal quarter and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio ranging between 1.15 to 1.00 and 1.35 to 1.00, as applicable for each fiscal quarter. If the Company has significant borrowings under the BMO Harris agreement and it violates a covenant or an event of default occurs and the lenders accelerate the maturity of any outstanding borrowings and terminate their commitment to make future loans, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to comply with its financial or other covenants or that any covenant violations will be waived. In addition, if the Company fails to comply with its financial or other covenants, it may need additional financing in order to service or extinguish its indebtedness. In the future, the Company may not be able to obtain financing or refinancing on terms acceptable to it, if at all. Our radiation-measurement and technology-based services business is subject to extensive domestic and foreign government regulations, which could increase our costs, cause us to incur liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations. Regulation, present and future, is a constant factor affecting the Company’s business. The radiation measurement industry is subject to federal, state and international governmental regulation. Unknown matters, new laws and regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws or regulations may materially affect Landauer’s business or operations in the future and/or could increase the cost of compliance. The equipment commissioning business of LMP, which Landauer first acquired in November 2009, and the employment of physicists and other healthcare professionals also are subject to federal, state and international governmental regulation and licensing requirements. Many of the Company’s technology-based services must comply with various domestic and international standards that are used by regulatory and accreditation bodies for approving such services and products. The failure of the Company to obtain accreditation for its services and products may adversely affect the Company’s business, require the Company to alter its products or procedures or adversely affect the market perception of the effectiveness of its services and products. Changes in these standards and accreditation requirements may also result in the Company having to incur substantial costs to adapt its offerings and procedures to maintain accreditations and approvals. Such adaptations may introduce quality assurance issues during transition that need to be addressed to ensure timely and accurate analyses and data reporting. Additionally, changes affecting radiation protection practices, including new understandings of the hazards of radiation exposure and amended regulations, may impact how the Company’s services are used by its customers and may, in some circumstances, cause the Company to alter its products and delivery of its services. 12 Table of Contents The Company’s medical device business is subject to many laws and government regulations governing the manufacture and sale of medical devices, including the FDA’s 510(k) clearance process. IZI’s products are medical devices that are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the federal government, including by the FDA. The FDA regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device’s design, development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record keeping, adverse event reporting, sale, promotion, distribution and shipping. The Company must report to the FDA when evidence suggests that one of its devices may have caused or contributed to death or serious injury or has malfunctioned and the device or a similar device would be likely to cause or contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. If such adverse event occurred, the Company could incur substantial expense and harm to its reputation and the Company’s business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Before a new medical device can be marketed in the United States, it must first receive either premarket approval or 510(k) clearance from the FDA, unless an exemption exists. The same rule applies when a manufacturer plans to market a medical device for a new use. The process can be costly and time-consuming. The FDA is expected to respond to a section 510(k) notification in 90 days, but often takes much longer. The premarket approval process usually takes six months to three years, but may take longer. The Company cannot assure that any new medical devices or new use for an existing medical device that IZI develops will be cleared or approved in a timely or cost-effective manner, if cleared or approved at all. Even if such devices are cleared or approved, the products may not be cleared or approved for all indications. Because medical devices may only be marketed for cleared or approved indications, this could significantly limit the market for that product and may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Currently, all IZI medical devices have been cleared through the 510(k) clearance process or are exempt from this requirement. Any modification to a 510(k) device that could significantly affect its safety or efficacy, or that would constitute a significant change in its intended use, will require a new clearance process. Any modification to an exempt device could potentially subject the exempt device to the 510(k) clearance requirements. The FDA requires device manufacturers to make their own determination regarding whether a modification requires a new clearance; however, the FDA can review and invalidate a manufacturer’s decision not to file for a new clearance. The Company cannot guarantee that the FDA will agree with its decisions not to seek clearances for particular device modifications or that it will be successful in obtaining 510(k) clearances for modifications. Any such additional clearance processes with the FDA could delay the Company’s ability to market a modified product and may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The FDA may change its policies, adopt additional regulations, or revise existing regulations, in particular relating to the 510(k) clearance process. The FDA also may change its policies, adopt additional regulations, or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay premarket approval or 510(k) clearance of a device, or could impact the Company’s ability to market its currently cleared devices. The Company anticipates significant changes in the near future that will affect the way the 510(k) clearance program will operate. On August 3, 2010, the FDA released for public comment two internal working group reports with numerous recommendations to improve the 510(k) process and utilize science in regulatory decision making to encourage innovation yet maintain predictability of the clearance process. In July, 2011, the Institute of Medicine, which was asked by the FDA to evaluate and make recommendations on the 510(k) program, released its report entitled “Medical Devices and the Public’s Health, The FDA 510(k) Clearance Process.” The report contained numerous and broad recommendations that, if followed, will have a significant impact on the medical device industry. Also in July, 2011, the FDA issued a draft guidance titled “510(k) Device Modifications: Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device.” This draft guidance document was withdrawn on July 17, 2012 in accordance with Section 510(n)(2)(B) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act as amended by Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act. An existing 1997 guidance on the same topic therefore remains in effect, but any future reforms could require the Company to file new 510(k)s and could increase the total number of 510(k)s to be filed. The Company cannot predict what effect these reforms will have on its ability to obtain 510(k) clearances in a timely manner. The Company also cannot predict the nature of other regulatory reforms and their resulting effects on its business. 13 Table of Contents The Company’s medical device business is subject to unannounced inspections by FDA to determine our compliance with FDA requirements. FDA inspections can result in inspectional observations on FDA’s Form-483, warning letters or other forms of more significant enforcement action. More specifically, if FDA concludes that the Company is not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of IZI’s medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the FDA could: ·require the Company to notify health professionals and others that its devices present unreasonable risk of substantial harm to public health; ·order the Company to recall, repair, replace or refund the cost of any medical device that it manufactured or distributed; ·detain, seize or ban adulterated or misbranded medical devices; ·refuse to provide the Company with documents necessary to export its products; ·refuse requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products or new intended uses; ·withdraw 510(k) clearances that are already granted; ·impose operating restrictions, including requiring a partial or total shutdown of production; ·enjoin or restrain conduct resulting in violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices; and/or ·assess criminal or civil penalties against the Company’s officers, employees or the Company. If the FDA concludes that the Company failed to comply with any regulatory requirement during an inspection, it could have a material adverse effect on its business and financial condition. The Company could incur substantial expense and harm to its reputation, and its ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner could be adversely affected. The current United States and state health reform legislative initiatives could adversely affect our operations and business condition. In both the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system in ways that might affect the Company’s business. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or collectively, the Health Care Reform Law, a sweeping law intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. This legislation includes reforms and reductions that could affect Medicare reimbursements and health insurance coverage for certain services and treatments. Effective January 1, 2013, The Health Reform Law also imposes a 2.3% excise tax on the sale of certain medical devices by manufacturers or importers in the United States. This legislation survived scrutiny by the U.S. Supreme Court in a decision handed down in 2012 which generally found the Health Care Reform Law constitutional (but for a requirement that states expand their Medicaid programs). In addition, the results of the 2012 Presidential and Congressional elections suggest that the Health Care Reform Law will remain intact, and as a result both governmental and private entities are now moving forward with health reform measures, including enhanced fraud and abuse enforcement and reductions in spending. Some states also have pending health reform legislative initiatives. Further, the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, which was created by the Budget Control Act of 2011, concluded its work in November 2011, and issued a statement that it was not able to make a bipartisan agreement, thus triggering the sequestration process. The sequestration process will result in spending reductions starting in 2013 and could result in reduced Medicare, Medicaid, and other Federal health care reimbursements for the Company’s services and products. Changes in reimbursements and coverages could adversely affect hospitals and other medical services and products providers, which could result in reduced demand for certain services and products offered by the Company, including services offered by its Medical Physics business and products manufactured by its recently acquired medical device business. The Company will not know the full effects of the Health Care Reform Law until applicable federal and state agencies issue regulations or guidance under the new law. The Company cannot predict whether or when future healthcare reform initiatives at the Federal or state level or other initiatives affecting its business will be proposed, enacted or implemented or what impact those initiatives may have on its business, 14 Table of Contents financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s customers and the other entities with which it has a business relationship could react to these initiatives and the uncertainty surrounding these proposals by curtailing or deferring investments, including those for Landauer’s services and products. The applicable healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, along with the increased enforcement environment, may lead to an enforcement action targeting the Company, which could adversely affect our business. The medical device business recently acquired by the Company is subject to healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations including, but not limited to, the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, state anti-kickback statutes, the Federal False Claims Act, and state false claims acts. Additionally, to the extent the Company maintains financial relationships with physicians and other healthcare providers, the Company may be subject to Federal and state physician payment sunshine laws and regulations, which require the Company to track and disclose these financial relationships. These and other laws regulate interactions amongst health care entities and with sources of referrals of business, among other things. The Federal Anti-Kickback Statute is a criminal statute that imposes substantial penalties on persons or entities that offer, solicit, pay or receive payments in return for referrals, recommendations, purchases or orders of items or services that are reimbursable by Federal healthcare programs. The False Claims Act imposes liability on any person or entity that submits or causes to be submitted a claim to the Federal government that he or she knows (or should know) is false. The Health Reform Law further provides that a claim submitted for items or services, the provision of which resulted from a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute, is “false” under the False Claims Act and certain other false claims statutes. The Company may be subject to liability under these laws based on the activities of its recently acquired medical device company for its conduct prior to acquisition, and may also be subject to liability for any future conduct that is deemed by the government or the courts to violate these laws. Additionally, over the past ten years, partially as the result of the passage of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and of the Health Reform Law, the government has pursued an increasing number of enforcement actions. This increased enforcement environment may increase scrutiny of the Company, directly or indirectly, and could increase the likelihood of an enforcement action targeting the Company. The Company’s medical device subsidiary has entered into complex distribution and collaboration agreements, as well as purchase agreements with a number of its customers, including parties that bill Federal healthcare programs for the Company’s products, which may be subject to government scrutiny. Finally, to the extent that any of the agreements are breached or terminated, the Company’s medical device business may experience a decrease in sales, and, accordingly, revenue. In addition, to the extent that its customers, many of whom are providers, may be affected by this increased enforcement environment, the Company’s business could correspondingly be affected. It is possible that a review of the Company’s business practices or those of its customers by courts or government authorities could result in a determination with an adverse effect on its business. The Company cannot predict the effect of possible future enforcement actions on the Company. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and several foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. For example, there could be changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; or changes in the relevant tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, principles and interpretations. We are subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional tax against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation, or the effects of a change in tax policy in the United States or international jurisdictions where we do business, could have a material effect on our operating results in the period or periods for which that determination is made. 15 Table of Contents As a portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States, adverse international developments could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Landauer conducts business in numerous international markets such as Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Japan, Mexico, Sweden, Turkey and the United Kingdom. Foreign operations are subject to a number of special risks, including, among others, currency exchange rate fluctuations; disruption in relations; political and economic unrest; trade barriers; exchange controls; expropriation; and changes in laws and policies, including those governing foreign owned operations. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results. The Company is exposed to market risk, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The financial statements of the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries are remeasured into U.S. dollars using the U.S. dollar as the reporting currency. To date, the market risk associated with foreign currency exchange rates has not been material in relation to the Company’s financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. These risks could increase, however, as the Company expands in international markets. Several of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater resources and increased competition could impair sales of our products. The Company competes on the basis of advanced technologies, competent execution of these technologies, the quality, reliability and price of its services and its prompt and responsive performance. In much of the world, radiation measurement activities are conducted by a combination of private entities and governmental agencies. The Company’s primary radiation measurement and medical physics competitor in the United States, Global Dosimetry Solutions, a division of Mirion Technologies, is large, has substantial resources, and has been particularly active in recent years in soliciting business from the Company’s customers. IZI’s primary competitor is Northern Digital, Inc., a division of Roper Industries, Inc., which has substantial resources. The Company also faces competitive pressures from a number of smaller competitors. Our failure to attract, motivate and retain qualified and key personnel to support our business may have a material adverse effect on our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s success depends, in large part, upon the talent and efforts of key individuals including highly skilled scientists, physicists and engineers, as well as experienced senior management, sales, marketing and finance personnel. Competition for these individuals is intense and there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in attracting, motivating, or retaining key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of these senior executives or key employees, or the inability to continue to attract these personnel may have a material effect on its business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s continued ability to compete effectively depends on its ability to attract new skilled employees and to retain and motivate its existing employees. 16 Table of Contents The Medical Physics business involves the delivery of professional services and is highly labor-intensive. Its success depends largely on its general ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled licensed medical physicists (“physicists”). Further, the Company must successfully maintain the right mix of physicists with relevant experience and skill sets as the Company continues to grow, as it expands into new service offerings, and as the market evolves. The loss of a significant number of its physicists, the inability to attract, hire, develop, train and retain additional skilled personnel, or not maintaining the right mix of professionals could have a serious negative effect on the Company, including its ability to manage, staff and successfully complete its existing engagements and obtain new engagements. Qualified physicists are in great demand, and the Company faces significant competition for both senior and junior physicists with the requisite credentials and experience. The Company’s principal competition for talent comes from other outsourced medical physicist firms, hospitals and free-standing radiation therapy centers. Many of these competitors may be able to offer significantly greater compensation and benefits or more attractive lifestyle choices, career paths or geographic locations than those of the Company. Therefore, the Company may not be successful in attracting and retaining the skilled physicists it requires to conduct and expand its operations successfully. Increasing competition for these revenue-generating medical physicists may also significantly increase the Company’s labor costs, which could negatively affect its margins and results of operations. We could be subject to professional liability lawsuits, some of which we may not be fully insured against or reserved for, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, physicians, hospitals and other participants in the healthcare industry have become subject to an increasing number of lawsuits alleging medical malpractice and related legal theories such as negligent hiring, supervision and credentialing, and vicarious liability for acts of their employees or independent contractors. In addition, the level and effect of radiation being administered by certain radiation equipment is also attracting increased scrutiny and giving rise to patient safety claims. Many of these lawsuits involve large claims and substantial defense costs. The Company’s Medical Physics business increases its presence in the healthcare industry. As the Company increases its focus on the healthcare industry, it could be exposed to litigation or subject to fines, penalties or suspension of services relating to the compliance with regulatory requirements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 