ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS In addition to the market risk factors relating to foreign currency and interest rate risk set out in Item 7A on page 12, the Company believes that the following represent the most significant risk factors for the Company, the occurrence of any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and share price: Capital markets are cyclical and weakness in the global markets may harm our business The Company’s traditional customers are mainly manufacturers of capital goods such as fork lift trucks, aerial lifts and railway signaling equipment. These markets are cyclical and depend heavily on worldwide transportation, shipping and other economic activity. In 2009, the markets experienced a significant decline in demand due to the global economic recession, and demand remains substantially lower than the peak in 2007 and 2008. Further, as our business has expanded globally, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in global economic conditions. The recent recession caused a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and extreme volatility in credit and equity markets, and the current instability in the Eurozone may cause these conditions to continue. These developments have had an adverse impact on the Company’s business and may continue to have a material negative effect on the Company’s business, operating results or financial condition in a number of additional ways. For example, current or potential customers may be unable to fund purchases or manufacturing of products, which could cause them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products or not to pay the Company or to delay paying for previously purchased products. In addition, the effect of these crises on the Company’s banks and other banks may cause the Company to lose its current overdraft facilities in the U.K. and be unable otherwise to obtain financing for operations as needed. Demand for on-road electric vehicles incorporating our products may not materialize The Company has become increasingly involved in developing products for the on-road electric vehicle market. We have relationships with several customers that incorporate our products into their EV products. Our competitors and others are also developing products for other entrants in the EV market, with similar and competing technologies. If our customers’ products or technology are not successful commercially, or if worldwide demand for EVs fails to grow as much as we hope, we may not realize the anticipated demand for our products in the EV market, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The Company relies on a small number of key customers for a substantial portion of its revenues Ten customers accounted for 51% of the Company’s revenues in 2012 and the largest customer accounted for 10% of revenues. Although we have had business relationships with these customers for many years, there are no long-term contractual supply agreements in place. Accordingly, our performance could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more of these key customers. The Company has substantial sales and operations outside the United States that could be adversely affected by changes in international markets The major portion of our operations and business are outside the United States. Accordingly, our performance could be adversely affected by economic downturns in Europe or the Far East as well as in the United States. A consequence of significant international business is that a large percentage of our revenues and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies that fluctuate in value versus the U.S. Dollar. Significant fluctuations in foreign exchange rates can and do have a material impact on our financial results, which are reported in U.S. Dollars. Other risks associated with international business include changing regulatory practices and tariffs; staffing and managing international operations, including complying with local employment laws; longer collection cycles in certain areas; and changes in tax and other laws. Single source materials and sub-contractors may not meet the Company’s needs The Company relies on a few suppliers and sub-contractors for its requirements for most components, sub-assemblies and finished products. In the event that such suppliers and sub-contractors are unable or unwilling to continue supplying the Company, or to meet the Company’s cost and quality targets or needs for timely delivery, there is no certainty that the Company would be able to establish alternative sources of supply in time to meet customer demand. - 4 - Damage to the Company’s or sub-contractors’ buildings would hurt results In the electronic controls segment the majority of the Company’s finished product is produced in three separate plants in Poland, Mexico and China; these plants are owned by sub-contractors. The capacitor business is located in a single plant in Wales. In the event that any of these plants was to be damaged or destroyed, it would take the Company and its manufacturing partners time to switch production volumes based on availability of material. There is no certainty that the Company would be able to establish alternative material supply lines in time to meet short term customer demand. The Company does carry property damage and business interruption insurance but this may not cover certain lost business due to the long-term nature of the relationships with many customers. Product liability claims may have a material adverse effect The Company’s products are technically complex and are installed and used by third parties. Defects in their design, installation, use or manufacturing may result in product liability claims against the Company. Such claims may result in significant damage awards, and the cost of any such litigation could be material. Failure to comply with financial covenants in our loan agreement could adversely affect us. As of September 30, 2012, the Company’s subsidiary in the United States, Sevcon USA, Inc. had approximately $1,700,000 of outstanding indebtedness under a revolving credit facility with RBS Citizens, National Association. This indebtedness is secured by all of Sevcon USA, Inc.’s assets and a pledge of all the capital stock of Sevcon USA, Inc. The loan agreement includes financial covenants which require us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios during the term of the agreement. See “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – Liquidity and Capital Resources”. Failure to comply with the financial covenants would be an event of default under the loan agreement that would give the lender the right to cease making additional advances, accelerate repayment of all sums due and take action to collect the monies owed to it, including foreclosing on its security interest, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. 