ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS In addition to the market risk factors relating to foreign currency and interest rate risk set out in Item 7A on page 13, the Company believes that the following represent the most significant risk factors for the Company: Capital goods markets are cyclical The Company’s customers are mainly manufacturers of capital goods such as fork lift trucks, aerial lifts and railway signaling equipment. These markets are cyclical and are currently showing modest growth, but demand in these markets could decrease or customers could decide to purchase alternative products. In this event the Company’s sales could decrease below its current break-even point and there is no certainty that the Company would be able to decrease overhead expenses to enable it to operate profitably. The Company relies on a small number of key customers for a substantial portion of its revenues Ten customers accounted for 63% of the Company’s revenues in fiscal 2007 and the largest customer accounted for 14% of revenues. Although we have had business relationships with these customers for many years, there are no long-term contractual supply agreements in place. Accordingly our performance could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more of these key customers. The Company has substantial sales and operations outside the United States that could be adversely affected by changes in international markets A significant portion of our operations is located, and a significant portion of our business comes from, outside the United States. Accordingly, our performance could be adversely affected by economic downturns in Europe or the Far East as well as in the United States. A consequence of significant international business is that a large percentage of our revenues and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies that fluctuate in value versus the U.S. dollar. Although we enter into hedging arrangements, significant fluctuations in foreign exchange rates can and do have a material impact on our financial results, which are reported in U.S. dollars. Other risks associated with international business include: changing regulatory practices and tariffs; staffing and managing international operations, including complying with local employment laws; longer collection cycles in certain areas; and changes in tax and other laws. Single source materials and sub-contractors may not meet the Company’s needs The Company relies on certain suppliers and sub-contractors for all of its requirements for certain components, sub-assemblies and finished products. In the event that such suppliers and sub-contractors are unable or unwilling to continue supplying the Company, or to meet the Company’s cost and quality targets or needs for timely delivery, there is no certainty that the Company would be able to establish alternative sources of supply in time to meet customer demand. Damage to the Company’s or sub-contractor’s buildings would hurt results In the controller business the majority of product is produced in a single plant in England and uses sub-assemblies sourced from a sub-contractor with two plants in Poland. The capacitor business is located in a single plant in Wales. In the event that any of these plants was to be damaged or destroyed, there is no certainty that the Company would be able to establish alternative facilities in time to meet customer demand. The Company does carry property damage and business interruption insurance but this may not cover certain lost business due to the long-term nature of the relationships with many customers. Product liability claims may have a material adverse effect The Company’s products are technically complex and are installed and used by third parties. Defects in their design, installation, use or manufacturing may result in product liability claims against the Company. Such claims may result in significant damage awards, and the cost of any such litigation could be material. - 4 - ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 