ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, set forth below are certain risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition and cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. WE RELY ON A SINGLE FACILITY FOR THE PRIMARY MANUFACTURING AND PROCESSING OF OUR DOSIMETRY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES. Landauer conducts its primary dosimetry manufacturing and laboratory processing operations and performs significant functions for some of its international operations from a single facility in Glenwood, Illinois. If the Company were to lose availability of its primary facility due to fire, natural disaster or other disruptions, the Company's operations could be significantly impaired. Although the Company maintains business interruption insurance, there can be no assurance that the proceeds of such insurance would be sufficient to offset any loss the Company might incur or that the Company would be able to retain its customer base if operations were so disrupted. WE RELY ON A SINGLE FACILITY FOR THE MANUFACTURING OF CRYSTAL MATERIAL, A KEY COMPONENT IN OUR OSL TECHNOLOGY, AND A SINGLE VENDOR FOR THE MANUFACTURING OF INLIGHT PRODUCTS. Crystal material is a key component in Landauer's OSL technology. The Company operates a single crystal manufacturing facility in Stillwater, Oklahoma that currently supplies all OSL crystal radiation measurement material used by the Company. Although multiple sources for raw crystal material exist, there can be no assurance that the Company could secure another source to produce finished crystal materials to Landauer's specification in the event of a disruption at the Stillwater facility. The InLight dosimetry system and its components are manufactured by Panasonic Communications Company under an exclusive agreement. If the Company were to lose availability of its Stillwater facility or materials from Panasonic due to a fire, natural disaster or other disruptions, such loss could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its operations. 10 IF WE ARE NOT SUCCESSFUL IN THE DEVELOPMENT OR INTRODUCTION OF NEW TECHNOLOGIES, OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Landauer's technological expertise has been an important factor in its growth. The Company regularly pursues product improvements to maintain its technical position. The development and introduction of new technologies, the adaptability of OSL to new platforms and new formats, the usefulness of older technologies as well as the introduction of new technologies by the competition present various risks to the Company's business. The failure or lack of market acceptance of a new technology or the inability to respond to market requirements for new technology could adversely affect the Company's operations or reputation with customers. The cancellation of technology projects or the cessation of use of an existing technology can result in write-downs and charges to the Company's earnings. In the normal course of its business, Landauer must record and process significant amounts of data quickly and accurately and relies on various computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems. Any failure of such equipment or systems could adversely affect the Company's operations. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY EXECUTE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES SUCH AS THE ACQUISITION AND INTEGRATION OF STRATEGIC BUSINESSES, OUR ON-GOING BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. A principal growth strategy of Landauer is to explore opportunities to selectively enhance its business through development activities, such as strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances. In furtherance of this objective, in November 2009, Landauer acquired GPS and GDM and intends to continue to pursue other acquisition and business development initiatives in the future. Acquisitions and other business development activities involve various significant challenges and risks, including the following: . Difficulty in acquiring desired businesses or assets on economically acceptable terms; . Difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems and technology; . Difficulty in consolidating facilities and infrastructure; . Potential need to operate and manage new lines of business; . Potential loss of key personnel; . Diversion of management's attention from on-going operations; . Realization of satisfactory returns on investments; and . Disputes with strategic partners, due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interest. Development activities could result in the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, interest and amortization expenses or periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets as well as significant charges related to integration costs. If the Company is unable to successfully integrate and manage businesses that it acquires within expected terms and in a timely manner, its business and results of operations could be adversely affected. 11 CERTAIN OF OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS ARE CONDUCTED THROUGH JOINT VENTURES IN WHICH WE RELY SIGNIFICANTLY ON OUR JOINT VENTURE PARTNERS. A substantial portion of the Company's international operations are conducted through joint ventures with third parties. In Australia, Brazil, China, and Mexico, the Company has a controlling interest in the related joint ventures. In Japan, the Company has a 50% interest in Nagase-Landauer, Ltd. In all of these joint ventures, Landauer relies significantly on the services and skills of its joint venture partners to manage and conduct the local operations and ensure compliance with local laws and regulations. If the joint venture partners were unable to perform adequately these functions, Landauer's operations in such regions could be adversely affected. AS A PORTION OF OUR BUSINESS IS CONDUCTED OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES, ADVERSE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Landauer conducts business in numerous international markets such as Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Japan, Mexico, and the United Kingdom. Foreign operations are subject to a number of special risks, including, among others, currency exchange rate fluctuations; disruption in relations; political and economic unrest; trade barriers; exchange controls; expropriation; and changes in laws and policies, including those governing foreign owned operations. OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS, WHICH COULD INCREASE OUR COSTS, CAUSE US TO INCUR LIABILITIES AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Regulation, present and future, is a constant factor affecting the Company's business. The radiation monitoring industry is subject to federal, state and international governmental regulation. Unknown matters, new laws and regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws or regulations may materially affect Landauer's business or operations in the future and/or could increase the cost of compliance. The equipment commissioning business of GPS, which Landauer acquired in November 2009, and the employment of physicists and other healthcare professionals also are subject to federal, state and international governmental regulation and licensing requirements. Many of the Company's technology-based services must comply with various domestic and international standards that are used by regulatory and accreditation bodies for approving such services and products. The failure of the Company to obtain accreditation for its products and services may adversely affect the Company's business and market perception of the effectiveness of its products and services. Changes in these standards and accreditation requirements may also result in the Company having to incur substantial costs to adapt its offerings and procedures. Such adaptations may introduce quality assurance issues during transition that need to be addressed to ensure timely and accurate analyses and data reporting. Additionally, changes affecting radiation protection practices, including new understandings of the hazards of radiation exposure and amended regulations, may impact how the Company's services are used by its customers and may, in some circumstances, cause the Company to alter its products and delivery of its services. FLUCTUATIONS IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS. The Company is exposed to market risk, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The financial statements of the Company's non-U.S. subsidiaries are remeasured into U.S. dollars using the U.S. dollar as the reporting currency. To date, the market risk associated with foreign currency exchange rates has not been material in relation to the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. These risks could increase, however, as the Company expands in international markets. 12 SEVERAL OF OUR CURRENT AND POTENTIAL COMPETITORS HAVE SIGNIFICANTLY GREATER RESOURCES, AND INCREASED COMPETITION COULD IMPAIR SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS. The Company competes on the basis of advanced technologies, competent execution of these technologies, the quality, reliability and price of its services and its prompt and responsive performance. In much of the world, radiation monitoring activities are conducted by a combination of private entities and governmental agencies. The Company's primary competitor in the United States is large, has substantial resources, and has been particularly active in recent years in soliciting business from the Company's customers. The Company also faces competitive pressures from a number of smaller competitors. UNFORESEEN PROBLEMS WITH THE IMPLEMENTATION AND MAINTENANCE OF OUR INFORMATION SYSTEMS COULD INTERFERE WITH OUR OPERATIONS. As part of the Company's initiative to re-engineer business processes and replace components of its information technology systems, the Company is implementing new enterprise resource planning software and other applications to manage certain of its business operations. The Company has and likely will continue to incur substantial costs associated with the implementation and additional costs associated with maintenance of the new systems. As the new applications are implemented and functionality added, unforeseen problems could arise. Such problems could adversely impact the Company's operations, including the ability to perform the following in a timely manner: customer quotes, customer orders, product shipment, customer services and support, order billing and tracking, contractual obligations fulfillment and other related operations. In addition, the Company has engaged third-party consultants for the development and implementation of the new systems. If the consultants fail to perform on their obligations, development and implementation of the project could be further delayed. If the new systems fail to provide simplified processes to serve customers and increase the speed with which the Company develops and introduces new products, the Company's results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. OUR FAILURE TO ATTRACT, MOTIVATE AND RETAIN QUALIFIED AND KEY PERSONNEL TO SUPPORT OUR BUSINESS MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS PLANS, PROSPECTS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. The Company's success depends, in large part, upon the talent and efforts of key individuals including highly skilled scientists, physicists and engineers, as well as experienced senior management, sales, marketing and finance personnel. Competition for these individuals is intense and there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in attracting, motivating, or retaining key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of these senior executives or key employees, or the inability to continue to attract these personnel may have a material effect on its business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The Company's continued ability to compete effectively depends on its ability to attract new skilled employees and to retain and motivate its existing employees. The GPS business involves the delivery of professional services and is highly labor-intensive. Its success depends largely on its general ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled licensed medical physicists ("physicists"). Further, the Company must successfully maintain the right mix of physicists with relevant experience and skill sets as the Company continues to grow, as it expands into new service offerings, and as the market evolves. The loss of a significant number of its physicists, the inability to attract, hire, develop, train and retain additional skilled personnel, or not maintaining the right mix of professionals could have a serious negative effect on the Company, including its ability to manage, staff and successfully complete its existing engagements and obtain new engagements. Qualified physicists are in great demand, and the Company faces significant competition for both senior and junior physicists with the requisite credentials and experience. The Company's principal competition for talent comes from other outsource 13 medical physicist firms, hospitals and free-standing radiation therapy centers. Many of these competitors may be able to offer significantly greater compensation and benefits or more attractive lifestyle choices, career paths or geographic locations than those of the Company. Therefore, the Company may not be successful in attracting and retaining the skilled physicists it requires to conduct and expand its operations successfully. Increasing competition for these revenue-generating medical physicists may also significantly increase the Company's labor costs, which could negatively affect its margins and results of operations. THE CURRENT UNITED STATES AND STATE HEALTH REFORM LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS AND BUSINESS CONDITION. The Obama Administration and Congress are considering federal legislation to reform the U.S. healthcare system. The current proposed federal health reform legislation includes various bills with various Congressional sponsors. A common issue addressed in the proposed federal health reform initiatives is increasing access to health benefits for the uninsured or underinsured populations. Some of the current proposed federal health reform legislation includes reforms and reductions that could affect Medicare reimbursements and health insurance coverage for certain services and treatments. Some states also have pending health reform legislative initiatives. Changes in reimbursements and coverages could adversely affect hospitals and medical services providers, which could result in reduced demand for certain services offered by the Company, including services offered by our recently acquired GPS subsidiary. At this time, Landauer is unable to determine the ultimate content or timing of any health reform legislation. Landauer will not be able to determine the effect that any such legislation may have on its operations and business condition until such legislation is enacted, but such legislation may adversely affect the operations and business condition of Landauer and its subsidiaries. WE COULD BE SUBJECT TO PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY LAWSUITS, SOME OF WHICH WE MAY NOT BE FULLY INSURED AGAINST OR RESERVED FOR, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. In recent years, physicians, hospitals and other participants in the healthcare industry have become subject to an increasing number of lawsuits alleging medical malpractice and related legal theories such as negligent hiring, supervision and credentialing, and vicarious liability for acts of their employees or independent contractors. Many of these lawsuits involve large claims and substantial defense costs. The acquisition of GPS increases the Company's presence in the healthcare industry. As the Company increases its focus on the healthcare industry, it could be exposed to litigation or subject to fines, penalties or suspension of services relating to the compliance with regulatory requirements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS At September 30, 2009, the Company is not aware of any unresolved written comments from the Commission staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Act. 