ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS In addition to the market risk factors relating to foreign currency and interest rate risk set out in Item 7A on page 14, the Company believes that the following represent the most significant risk factors for the Company, the occurrence of any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and share price: Capital markets are cyclical and weakness in the global markets may harm our business The Company’s traditional customers are mainly manufacturers of capital goods such as fork lift trucks, aerial lifts and railway signaling equipment. These markets are cyclical and depend heavily on worldwide transportation, shipping and other economic activity. They experienced a significant decline in demand during the recent global recession. Further, as our business has expanded globally, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in global economic conditions. While market conditions have appeared to improve since 2010, economic instability remains, particularly in the Eurozone. As a result, current or potential customers may be unable to fund purchases or manufacturing of products, which could cause them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products or not to pay the Company or to delay paying for previously purchased products. In addition, continuing instability in the European credit markets may cause the Company to lose its current overdraft facilities and be unable otherwise to obtain financing for operations as needed. Demand for on-road electric vehicles incorporating our products may not materialize The Company is increasingly involved in developing products for the on-road electric vehicle market. We have relationships with several customers that incorporate our products into their EV products. Our competitors and others are also developing products for other entrants in the EV market, with similar and competing technologies. If our customers’ products or technology are not successful commercially, or if worldwide demand for EVs fails to grow as much as we hope, we may not realize the anticipated demand for our products in the EV market, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Program development timescales are long and can be cancelled In certain markets in which the Company operates, and in particular in the Company’s new market sectors, non-recurring engineering development programs may take several years to complete and as result programs periodically reviewed by the customer can be cancelled at short notice. Cancellation of an engineering development program would potentially result in the Company not being nominated for the production phase of a project. 4 Index Production readiness is outside our control In some new markets the Company’s customer is responsible for ensuring that all of the components of their vehicle, working in unison, comply with local governmental regulations in order to achieve the necessary certification to proceed to volume production. Even though the Company’s product performs to specification in all respects, the customer’s vehicle may fail to satisfy overall the local governmental regulations due to the failure of one or more components supplied by other suppliers resulting in a project not proceeding to volume production. The Company relies on a small number of key customers for a substantial portion of its revenues Ten customers accounted for 49% of the Company’s revenues in 2014 and the largest customer accounted for 14% of revenues. Although we have had business relationships with some of these customers for many years, our relationships with on-road EV customers are newer and, in any event, there are no long-term contractual supply agreements in place with any customer. Accordingly our performance could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more of these key customers. The Company’s commitment to make defined benefit pension contributions could adversely impact its financial position. It is estimated that the Company will make contributions to its frozen U.K. and U.S. defined benefit pension plans of approximately $687,000 in 2015 and at a similar level in subsequent years. Should the Company suffer a material reduction in revenues this commitment could adversely impact the Company’s financial position. The Company has substantial sales and operations outside the United States that could be adversely affected by changes in international markets A significant portion of our operations is located, and a significant portion of our business comes from, outside the United States. Accordingly, our performance could be adversely affected by economic downturns in Europe or the Far East as well as in the United States. A consequence of significant international business is that a large percentage of our revenues and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies that fluctuate in value versus the U.S. Dollar. Significant fluctuations in foreign exchange rates can and do have a material impact on our financial results, which are reported in U.S. Dollars. Other risks associated with international business include: changing regulatory practices and tariffs; staffing and managing international operations, including complying with local employment laws; longer collection cycles in certain areas; and changes in tax and other laws. Single source materials and sub-contractors may not meet the Company’s needs The Company relies on a small number of suppliers and sub-contractors for its requirements for most components, sub-assemblies and finished products. In the event that such suppliers and sub-contractors are unable or unwilling to continue supplying the Company, or to meet the Company’s cost and quality targets or needs for timely delivery, there is no certainty that the Company would be able to establish alternative sources of supply in time to meet customer demand. Management judgment in assessing inventory and warranty reserves may be less than required Management uses its judgment and market information to assess levels of reserve required in certain areas including inventory and warranty. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if product designs change more quickly than forecast, additional inventory reserves may be required. Should actual product failure rates and repair or replacement costs differ from management estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty reserve may be required and the Company’s results may be materially adversely affected. 5 Index Product defect may result in product recall In the event that the Company discovers a product defect that impacts the safety or operation of its products, then a product recall may be necessary which could involve the Company in a substantial unanticipated expense significantly in excess of any reserve that had been made. Damage to the Company’s or sub-contractors’ buildings would hurt results In the electronic controls segment, the majority of the Company’s finished product is currently produced in three separate plants in Poland, Mexico and China; these plants are owned by sub-contractors. The capacitor business is located in a single plant in Wales. In the event that any of these plants was to be damaged or destroyed, there is no certainty that the Company would be able to establish alternative facilities in time to meet customer demand. The Company does carry property damage and business interruption insurance but this may not cover certain lost business due to the long-term nature of the relationships with many customers. Product liability claims may have a material adverse effect The Company’s products are technically complex and are installed and used by third parties. Defects in their design, installation, use or manufacturing may result in product liability claims against the Company. Such claims may result in significant damage awards, and the cost of any such litigation could be material. Failure to comply with financial covenants in our loan agreement could adversely affect us. As of September 30, 2014, the Company’s subsidiary in the United States, Sevcon USA, Inc. had $1,700,000 of outstanding indebtedness under a revolving credit facility with Citizens Bank, National Association. This indebtedness is secured by all of Sevcon USA, Inc.’s assets and a pledge of all the capital stock of Sevcon USA, Inc. The loan agreement includes financial covenants which require us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios during the term of the agreement. See “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – Liquidity and Capital Resources”. Failure to comply with the financial covenants would be an event of default under the loan agreement that would give the lender the right to cease making additional advances, accelerate repayment of all sums due and take action to collect the monies owed to it, including foreclosing on its security interest, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. The continuing debt crisis in the Eurozone may have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results, which could adversely affect our stock price. There continues to be significant uncertainty about the stability of global credit and financial markets in light of the continuing debt crisis in certain European countries. A default or a withdrawal from the Eurozone by any of the countries involved, or the uncertainty alone, could cause the value of the Euro to deteriorate. This, or a change to a local currency, would reduce the purchasing power of affected European customers. We are unable to predict the likelihood of any of these events but, if any occurs, our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to attract and retain the level of high quality engineering staff that we need to develop the new and improved products we need to be successful. The Company needs sufficient highly qualified engineers and technicians to develop and test the products our customers require. This is an expensive and scarce resource. If we are unable to attract and retain the level of high quality engineering staff that we need for our new and improved products, we will lose business and our financial condition will be adversely affected. Businesses we acquire may not generate the revenue and earnings we anticipate and may otherwise adversely affect our operations and financial condition. We are considering supplementing our growth by acquiring new businesses. If we do that, but we fail to successfully integrate and manage the businesses we acquire, or if an acquisition does not further our business strategy as we expected, our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Business combinations also involve a number of risks and uncertainties that can have an adverse impact, including that: · the costs of acquiring and integrating another business may be materially greater than we anticipate; · managing an acquired company’s technologies or lines of business or entering new markets where we have limited or no prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions may be more difficult than we anticipate; 6 Index · we may fail to achieve the expected return on our investments, which could adversely affect our business or operating results and potentially cause impairment to assets that we recorded as a part of an acquisition, including intangible assets and goodwill; · the attention of our management and employees may be diverted; · we may not be able to retain key personnel of an acquired business; · we may assume unanticipated legal or financial liabilities; · we may suffer significant increases in our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition; and · our existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease if we were to issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with an acquisition. 