ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the exhibits hereto and the information incorporated by reference herein, as well as our 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders (our “2011 Annual Report”), contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Other than statements of historical fact, information regarding activities, events and developments that we expect or anticipate will or may occur in the future, including, but not limited to, information relating to our future growth and profitability targets and strategies designed to increase total shareholder value, are forward-looking statements based on management’s estimates, assumptions and projections. Forward-looking statements also include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our future economic and financial condition and results of operations, the plans and objectives of management and our assumptions regarding our performance and such plans and objectives, as well as the amount and timing of repurchases of Scotts Miracle-Gro common shares. Forward-looking statements generally can be identified through the use of words such as “guidance,” “outlook,” “projected,” “believe,” “target,” “predict,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “strategy,” “may,” “goal,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “foresee,” “likely,” “will,” “should” and other similar words and variations. Forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our 2011 Annual Report are predictions only and actual results could differ materially from management’s expectations due to a variety of factors, including those described below. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons working on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by such risk factors. The forward-looking statements that we make in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our 2011 Annual Report are based on management’s current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates. We disclaim any obligation to update developments of these risk factors or to announce publicly any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements that we make, or to make corrections to reflect future events or developments, except as required by the federal securities laws. 10 Table of Contents The ongoing governmental investigations regarding our compliance with FIFRA could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our products that contain pesticides must comply with FIFRA and be registered with the U.S. EPA and similar state agencies before they can be sold or distributed. In April 2008, we became aware that a former associate apparently deliberately circumvented our policies and U.S. EPA regulations under FIFRA by failing to obtain valid registrations for certain products and/or causing certain invalid product registration forms to be submitted to regulators. Since that time, internal and third-party reviews have identified additional potential pesticide product registration issues (some of which appear unrelated to the actions of the former associate) and we have been cooperating with both the U.S. EPA and the U.S. DOJ in related civil and criminal investigations into our pesticide product registration issues as well as a state civil investigation into related allegations arising under state pesticide registration laws and regulations. In connection with the registration investigations and FIFRA compliance review process, we have recorded, and in the future expect to record, charges and costs for estimated retailer inventory returns, consumer returns and replacement costs, costs to rework existing products, inventory write-downs and legal and professional fees and costs associated with administration of the registration investigations and FIFRA compliance review process. Because expected future charges are based on estimates, they may increase as a result of numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the number and type of legal or regulatory proceedings relating to the registration investigations and FIFRA compliance review process and regulatory or judicial orders or decrees that may require us to take certain actions in connection with the registration investigations and FIFRA compliance review process or to pay civil or criminal fines and/or penalties at the state and/or federal level. The U.S. EPA, U.S. DOJ and related state investigations continue and may result in future state, federal or private rights of action as well as judgments, settlements, fines and/or penalties with respect to known or potential additional product registration issues. At this stage of the investigations, we cannot reasonably estimate the total scope or magnitude of all possible liabilities that could result from known or potential product registration issues. Based on the facts and circumstances known to us at this time (including settlement discussions that have taken place to date), we have established what we believe to be an appropriate reserve. However, it is possible that any fines and/or penalties with respect to the investigations, as well as any judgments, litigation costs or other liabilities relating to such known or potential product registration issues, could exceed the amount of the reserve, possibly materially, and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. There can be no assurance that the ultimate outcome of the investigations will not result in further action against us, whether administrative, civil or criminal, by the U.S. EPA, the U.S. DOJ, state regulatory agencies or private litigants, and any such action, in addition to the costs we have incurred and would continue to incur in connection therewith, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Compliance with environmental and other public health regulations could increase our costs of doing business or limit our ability to market all of our products. Local, state, federal and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental matters affect us in several ways. In the United States, all products containing pesticides must comply with FIFRA and be registered with the U.S. EPA and similar state agencies before they can be sold or distributed. The inability to obtain or maintain such compliance, or the cancellation of any such registration, could have an adverse effect on our business, the severity of which would depend on the products involved, whether another product could be substituted and whether our competitors were similarly affected. We attempt to anticipate regulatory developments and maintain registrations of, and access to, substitute active ingredients, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to avoid or reduce these risks. In the European Union (the “EU”), the European Parliament has adopted various forms of regulation which may substantially restrict or eliminate our ability to market and sell certain of our 11 Table of Contents consumer pesticide products in their current form in the EU. In addition, in Canada, regulations have been adopted by several provinces that substantially restrict our ability to market and sell certain of our consumer pesticide products. Under the Food Quality Protection Act, enacted by the U.S. Congress in 1996, food-use pesticides are evaluated to determine whether there is reasonable certainty that no harm will result from the cumulative effects of pesticide exposures. Under this Act, the U.S. EPA is evaluating the cumulative risks from dietary and non-dietary exposures to pesticides. The pesticides in our products, certain of which may be used on crops processed into various food products, are typically manufactured by independent third parties and continue to be evaluated by the U.S. EPA as part of this exposure risk assessment. The U.S. EPA or the third-party registrant may decide that a pesticide we use in our products will be limited or made unavailable to us. We cannot predict the outcome or the severity of the effect of continuing evaluations. In addition, the use of certain pesticide and fertilizer products is regulated by various local, state, federal and foreign environmental and public health agencies. These regulations may include requirements that only certified or professional users apply the product or that certain products be used only on certain types of locations, may require users to post notices on properties to which products have been or will be applied, may require notification to individuals in the vicinity that products will be applied in the future or may ban the use of certain ingredients. Most states require our Scotts LawnService® business locations and/or technicians to comply with strict licensing requirements prior to applying many of our products. Even if we are able to comply with all such regulations and obtain all necessary registrations and licenses, we cannot provide assurance that our products, particularly pesticide products, will not cause injury to the environment or to people under all circumstances. The costs of compliance, remediation or products liability have adversely affected operating results in the past and could materially adversely affect future quarterly or annual operating results. The harvesting of peat for our growing media business has come under increasing regulatory and environmental scrutiny. In the United States, state regulations frequently require us to limit our harvesting and to restore the property to an agreed-upon condition. In some locations, we have been required to create water retention ponds to control the sediment content of discharged water. In the United Kingdom, our peat extraction efforts are also the subject of regulation. In addition to the regulations already described, local, state, federal and foreign agencies regulate the disposal, transport, handling and storage of waste, remediation of contaminated sites, air and water discharges from our facilities, and workplace health and safety. Under certain environmental laws, we may be liable for the costs of investigation regarding and remediation of the presence of certain regulated materials, as well as related costs of investigation and remediation of damage to natural resources, at various properties, including our current and former properties as well as offsite waste handling or disposal sites that we have used. Liability may be imposed upon us without regard to whether we knew of or caused the presence of such materials and, under certain circumstances, on a joint and several basis. There can be no assurances that the presence of such regulated materials at any such locations, or locations that we may acquire in the future, will not result in liability to us under such laws or expose us to third-party actions such as tort suits based on alleged conduct or environmental conditions. The adequacy of our current non-FIFRA compliance-related environmental reserves and future provisions depends upon our operating in substantial compliance with applicable environmental and public health laws and regulations, as well as the assumptions that we have both identified all of the significant sites that must be remediated and that there are no significant conditions of potential contamination that are unknown to us. A significant change in the facts and circumstances surrounding these assumptions or in current enforcement policies or requirements, or a finding that we are not in substantial compliance with applicable environmental and public health laws and regulations, could have a material adverse effect on future environmental capital expenditures and other environmental expenses, as well as our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 12 Table of Contents Damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business. Maintaining our strong reputation with both consumers and our retail customers is a key component in our success. Product recalls, our inability to ship, sell or transport affected products and the on-going governmental investigations may harm our reputation and acceptance of our products by our retail customers and consumers, which may materially and adversely affect our business operations, decrease sales and increase costs. In addition, perceptions that the products we produce and market are not safe could adversely affect us and contribute to the risk we will be subjected to legal action. We manufacture and market a variety of products, such as fertilizers, certain growing media, herbicides and pesticides. On occasion, allegations are made that some of our products have failed to perform up to expectations or have caused damage or injury to individuals or property. Based on reports of contamination at a third-party supplier’s vermiculite mine, the public may perceive that some of our products manufactured in the past using vermiculite are or may be contaminated. Public perception that our products are not safe, whether justified or not, could impair our reputation, involve us in litigation, damage our brand names and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our marketing activities may not be successful. We invest substantial resources in advertising, consumer promotions and other marketing activities in order to maintain, extend and expand our brand image. We intend to increase the amount we spend on advertising activities in fiscal 2012 by as much as $40 million. There can be no assurances that our marketing strategies will be effective or that increasing the amount we invest in advertising activities will result in a corresponding increase in sales of our products. If our marketing initiatives are not successful, we will have incurred significant expenses without the benefit of higher revenues. Disruptions in availability or increases in the prices of raw materials could adversely affect our results of operations. We source many of our commodities and other raw materials on a global basis. The general availability and price of those raw materials, particularly urea, can be affected by numerous forces beyond our control, including political instability, trade restrictions and other government regulations, duties and tariffs, price controls, changes in currency exchange rates and weather. A significant disruption in the availability of any of our key raw materials could negatively impact our business. In addition, increases in the prices of key commodities and other raw materials could adversely affect our ability to manage our cost structure. Market conditions may limit our ability to raise selling prices to offset increases in our raw material costs. The uniqueness of our technologies can limit our ability to locate or utilize alternative inputs for certain products. For certain inputs, new sources of supply may have to be qualified under regulatory standards, which can require additional investment and delay bringing a product to market. We utilize hedge agreements periodically to fix the prices of a portion of our urea and fuel needs. The hedge agreements are designed to mitigate the earnings and cash flow fluctuations associated with the costs of urea and fuel. However, in periods of declining urea and fuel prices the hedge agreements can have the effect of increasing our expenditures for these raw materials. Our hedging arrangements expose us to certain counterparty risks. In addition to commodity hedge agreements, we utilize interest rate swap agreements as a means to hedge our variable interest rate exposure on debt instruments as well as foreign currency swap contracts to manage the exchange rate risk associated with certain intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries. Utilizing these hedge agreements exposes us to certain counterparty risks. The failure of one or more of these counterparties to fulfill their obligations under the hedge agreements, whether as a result of weakening financial stability or otherwise, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 13 Table of Contents Economic conditions could adversely affect our business. Uncertain global economic conditions could adversely affect our business. Negative global economic trends, such as decreased consumer and business spending, high unemployment levels, reduced rates of home ownership and housing starts, high foreclosure rates and declining consumer and business confidence, pose challenges to our business and could result in declining revenues, profitability and cash flow. Although we continue to devote significant resources to support our brands, unfavorable economic conditions may negatively affect consumer demand for our products. Consumers may reduce discretionary spending during periods of economic uncertainty, which could reduce sales volumes of our products or result in a shift in our product mix from higher margin to lower margin products. The highly competitive nature of our markets could adversely affect our ability to maintain or grow revenues. Each of our operating segments participates in markets that are highly competitive. Our products compete against national and regional products and private label products produced by various suppliers. Many of our competitors sell their products at prices lower than ours. Our most price sensitive customers may trade down to lower priced products during challenging economic times or if current economic conditions worsen. We compete primarily on the basis of product innovation, product quality, product performance, value, brand strength, supply chain competency, field sales support, the strength of our relationships with major retailers and advertising. Some of our competitors have significant financial resources. The strong competition that we face in all of our markets may prevent us from achieving our revenue goals, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our inability to continue to develop and grow brands with leading market positions, maintain our relationships with key retailers and deliver products on a reliable basis at competitive prices could have a material adverse effect on us. We may not successfully develop new products or improve existing products or maintain our effectiveness in reaching consumers through rapidly evolving communication vehicles. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to improve our existing products and to develop, manufacture and market new, innovative products to meet evolving consumer needs, as well as our ability to leverage new mediums such as digital media and social networks to reach existing and potential consumers. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in the development, manufacturing and marketing of new products or product innovations which satisfy consumer needs or achieve market acceptance, or that we will develop and market new products or product innovations in a timely manner. If we fail to successfully develop, manufacture and market new or enhanced products or develop product innovations, or if we fail to reach existing and potential consumers, our ability to maintain or grow our market share may be adversely affected, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the development and introduction of new products and product innovations require substantial research, development and marketing expenditures, which we may be unable to recoup if such new products or innovations do not achieve market acceptance. Many of the products we manufacture and market contain active ingredients that are subject to regulatory approval. The need to obtain such approval could delay the launch of new products or product innovations that contain active ingredients or otherwise prevent us from developing and manufacturing certain products and innovations, further exacerbating the risks to our business. Because of the concentration of our sales to a small number of retail customers, the loss of one or more of, or significant reduction in orders from, our top customers could adversely affect our financial results. Global Consumer net sales represented approximately 89% of our worldwide net sales in fiscal 2011. Our top three retail customers together accounted for 61% of our fiscal 2011 net sales and 47% of our outstanding 14 Table of Contents accounts receivable as of September 30, 2011. Home Depot, Lowe’s and Walmart represented approximately 30%, 18% and 13%, respectively, of our fiscal 2011 net sales. The loss of, or reduction in orders from, Home Depot, Lowe’s, Walmart or any other significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, as could customer disputes regarding shipments, fees, merchandise condition or related matters. Our inability to collect accounts receivable from one of our major customers, or a significant deterioration in the financial condition of one of these customers, including a bankruptcy filing or a liquidation, could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We do not have long-term sales agreements with, or other contractual assurances as to future sales to, any of our major retail customers. In addition, continued consolidation in the retail industry has resulted in an increasingly concentrated retail base, and as a result, we are significantly dependent upon key retailers whose bargaining strength is strong. To the extent such concentration continues to occur, our net sales and income from operations may be increasingly sensitive to deterioration in the financial condition of, or other adverse developments involving our relationship with, one or more of our customers. In addition, our business may be negatively affected by changes in the policies of our retailers, such as inventory destocking, limitations on access to shelf space, price demands and other conditions. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers could harm our business. We rely on third-party service providers to manufacture certain of our products. This reliance generates a number of risks, including decreased control over the production process, which could lead to production delays or interruptions, and inferior product quality control. In addition, performance problems at these third-party providers could result in cost overruns, shortages or other problems, which could result in significant customer dissatisfaction and thereby materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If one or more of our third-party manufacturers becomes insolvent or unwilling to continue to manufacture products of acceptable quality, at acceptable costs, in a timely manner, our ability to deliver products to our customers could be significantly impaired. Substitute manufacturers might not be available or, if available, might be unwilling or unable to manufacture the products we need on acceptable terms. Moreover, if customer demand for our products increases, we may be unable to secure sufficient additional capacity from our current third-party manufacturers, or others, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our reliance on a limited base of suppliers may result in disruptions to our business and adversely affect our financial results. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for certain of our raw materials, product components and other necessary supplies, including certain of the active ingredients used in our products. If we are unable to maintain supplier arrangements and relationships, if we are unable to contract with suppliers at the quantity and quality levels needed for our business, or if any of our key suppliers becomes insolvent or experiences other financial distress, we could experience disruptions in production, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. A significant interruption in the operation of our or our suppliers’ facilities could impact our capacity to produce products and service our customers, which could adversely affect revenues and earnings. Operations at our and our suppliers’ facilities are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including fire, flooding or other natural disasters, disease outbreaks or pandemics, acts of war, terrorism and work stoppages. A significant interruption in the operation of our or our suppliers’ facilities could significantly impact our capacity to produce products and service our retail customers in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and financial position. This is especially true for those products that we manufacture at a limited number of facilities, such as our fertilizer and liquid products in both the United States and Europe. 15 Table of Contents Adverse weather conditions could adversely impact financial results. Weather conditions in North America and Europe can have a significant impact on the timing of sales in the spring selling season and overall annual sales. An abnormally wet and/or cold spring throughout North America or Europe, abnormally dry periods or droughts, and other severe weather conditions or events could adversely affect fertilizer, pesticide and insecticide sales and, therefore, our financial results. Our indebtedness could limit our flexibility and adversely affect our financial condition. As of September 30, 2011, we had $795 million of debt. Our inability to meet restrictive financial and non-financial covenants associated with that debt could adversely affect our financial condition. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, fund planned capital expenditures and acquisitions, pay dividends and make share repurchases depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. Our credit facility, the indenture governing our 7.25% Senior Notes due 2018 (the “7.25% Senior Notes”) and the indenture governing our 6.625% Senior Notes due 2020 (the “6.625% Senior Notes” and, collectively with the 7.25% Senior Notes, the “Senior Notes”) contain restrictive covenants and cross-default provisions. In addition, our credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with those covenants and satisfy those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of those financial ratio covenants or other covenants could result in a default. Upon the occurrence of such an event of default, the lenders could elect to declare all of the outstanding indebtedness immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. We cannot assure you that our lenders would waive a default or that we could pay the indebtedness in full if it were accelerated. Subject to compliance with certain covenants under our credit facility and the indentures governing our Senior Notes, we may incur additional debt in the future. If we incur additional debt, the risks described above could intensify. Our postretirement-related costs and funding requirements could increase as a result of volatility in the financial markets, changes in interest rates and actuarial assumptions. We sponsor a number of defined benefit pension plans associated with our U.S. and international businesses, as well as a postretirement medical plan in the U.S. for certain retired associates and their dependents. The performance of the financial markets and changes in interest rates impact the funded status of these plans and cause volatility in our postretirement-related costs and future funding requirements. If the financial markets do not provide the expected long-term returns on invested assets, we could be required to make significant pension contributions. Additionally, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. We utilize third-party actuaries to evaluate assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. In the event we determine that our assumptions should be revised, such as the discount rate, the expected long-term rate or expected return on assets, our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. The assumptions we use may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on our pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements. 16 Table of Contents Our international operations make us susceptible to the costs and risks associated with operating internationally. We currently operate manufacturing, sales and service facilities outside of the United States, particularly in Canada, France, the United Kingdom and Germany. In fiscal 2011, international net sales, including Canada, accounted for approximately 18% of our total net sales. Accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • limitations on the remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; • additional costs of compliance with local regulations; • historically, in certain countries, higher rates of inflation than in the United States; • changes in the economic conditions or consumer preferences or demand for our products in these markets; • restrictive actions by multi-national governing bodies, foreign governments or subdivisions thereof; • changes in foreign labor laws and regulations affecting our ability to hire and retain employees; • changes in U.S. and foreign laws regarding trade and investment; • less robust protection of our intellectual property under foreign laws; and • difficulty in obtaining distribution and support for our products. In addition, our operations outside the United States are subject to the risk of new and different legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations and potentially adverse tax consequences. The costs associated with operating our International business could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows in the future. Failure of our key information technology systems could adversely impact our ability to conduct business. We rely on information technology systems in order to conduct business, including communicating with employees and our key retail customers, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, shipping products to customers and analyzing and reporting results of operations. While we have taken steps to ensure the security of our information technology systems, our systems may nevertheless be vulnerable to computer viruses, security breaches and other disruptions from unauthorized users. If our information technology systems are damaged or cease to function properly for an extended period of time, whether as a result of a significant cyber incident or otherwise, our ability to communicate internally as well as with our retail customers could be significantly impaired, which may adversely impact our business. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights that are material to our business. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our rights to service marks, trademarks, trade names and other intellectual property rights we own or license, particularly our registered brand names and issued patents. We have not sought to register every one of our marks either in the United States or in every country in which they are used. Furthermore, because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent and other intellectual property or proprietary rights laws, we may not receive the same protection in other countries as we would in the United States with respect to the registered brand names and issued patents we hold. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, proprietary information and/or brand names, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information, or to defend against claims by third parties that our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights. Any litigation or claims brought by or against us could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. A successful claim of trademark, patent or other intellectual property infringement against us, or any other successful challenge to the use of our intellectual property, could subject us to damages or prevent us from providing certain products or services under our recognized brand names, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If Monsanto were to terminate the Marketing Agreement for consumer Roundup® products, we would lose a substantial source of future earnings and overhead expense absorption. If we were to commit a serious default under the Marketing Agreement with Monsanto for consumer Roundup® products, Monsanto may have the right to terminate the Marketing Agreement. If Monsanto were to terminate the Marketing Agreement for cause, we would not be entitled to any termination fee. Monsanto may also be able to terminate the Marketing Agreement within a given region, including North America, without paying us a termination fee if unit volume sales to consumers in that region decline: (i) over a cumulative three-fiscal-year period; or (ii) by more than 5% for each of two consecutive years. If the Marketing Agreement was terminated for any reason, we would also lose all, or a substantial portion, of the significant source of earnings and overhead expense absorption the Marketing Agreement provides. Hagedorn Partnership, L.P. beneficially owns approximately 30% of our common shares and can significantly influence decisions that require the approval of shareholders. Hagedorn Partnership, L.P. beneficially owned approximately 30% of our outstanding common shares on a fully diluted basis as of November 18, 2011. As a result, it has sufficient voting power to significantly influence the election of directors and the approval of other actions requiring the approval of our shareholders, including the entering into of certain business combination transactions. In addition, because of the percentage of ownership and voting concentration in Hagedorn Partnership, L.P., elections of our board of directors will generally be within the control of Hagedorn Partnership, L.P. While all of our shareholders are entitled to vote on matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, the concentration of shares and voting control presently lies with Hagedorn Partnership, L.P. As such, it would be difficult for shareholders to propose and have approved proposals not supported by Hagedorn Partnership, L.P. Hagedorn Partnership, L.P. may have an interest in our pursuing transactions that it believes may enhance the value of its equity investment in us, even though such transactions may involve certain risks. We may pursue acquisitions, dispositions, investments, dividends, share repurchases and/or other corporate transactions that we believe will maximize equity returns of our shareholders but may involve risks. From time to time, we consider opportunities for acquisitions of businesses, product lines or other assets, potential dispositions and other strategic transactions. For example, in fiscal 2011 we sold our Global Professional business and acquired the assets of a growing media operator in Florida. These types of transactions may involve risks, such as risks of integration of acquired businesses and loss of cash flows and market positions of disposed businesses, the possibility that anticipated synergies from strategic acquisitions may not materialize, and the risk that sales of acquired products may not meet expectations. In addition, if our business performs according to our financial plan, subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and to market and other conditions we may, over time, significantly increase the rate of dividends on, and the amount of repurchases of, our common shares. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 we doubled the amount of our quarterly cash dividend, and our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of Scotts Miracle-Gro common shares. In fiscal 2011 we increased the amount of our dividend by an additional 20% and our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $200 million of our common shares. We may further increase the rate of dividends on, and the amount of repurchases of, our common shares in the future. 18 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that we will effect any of these transactions or activities, but, if we do, certain risks may be increased, possibly materially. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 