ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Statement on Forward-Looking Statements We have made and will make “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders (our “2009 Annual Report”) and in other contexts relating to matters including future growth and profitability targets and strategies designed to increase total shareholder value. Forward-looking statements also include, but are not limited to, information regarding our future economic and financial condition and results of operations, the plans and objectives of our management and our assumptions regarding our performance and these plans and objectives. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a “safe harbor” for forward-looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long as those statements are identified as forward-looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. We desire to take advantage of the “safe harbor” provisions of that Act. Forward-looking statements that we make in our 2009 Annual Report, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other contexts are subject to a variety of risks and assumptions and numerous factors beyond our control. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make include those described below. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons working on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the following cautionary statements. The Ongoing Governmental Investigation Regarding Our Compliance with FIFRA Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition, Results of Operations or Cash Flows. Our products that contain pesticides must comply with FIFRA and be registered with the U.S. EPA (and similar state agencies) before they can be sold or distributed. In April 2008, we became aware that a former associate 14 apparently deliberately circumvented Company policies and U.S. EPA regulations under FIFRA by failing to obtain valid registrations for products and/or causing invalid product registration forms to be submitted to regulators. Since that time, internal and third-party reviews have identified additional potential pesticide product registration issues (some of which appear unrelated to the actions of the former associate) and we have been cooperating with both the U.S. EPA and the U.S. DOJ in related civil and criminal investigations into the pesticide product registration issues. In connection with the registration investigations and FIFRA compliance review process, we have recorded, and in the future expect to record, charges and costs for estimated retailer inventory returns, consumer returns and replacement costs, costs to rework existing products, inventory write-downs and legal and professional fees and costs associated with administration of the registration investigation and compliance review process. Because these expected future charges are based on estimates, they may increase as a result of numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the number and type of legal or regulatory proceedings relating to the registration investigation and FIFRA compliance review process and regulatory or judicial orders or decrees that may require us to take certain actions in connection with the registration investigations and FIFRA compliance review process or to pay civil or criminal fines and/or penalties at the state and/or federal level. The U.S. EPA and U.S. DOJ investigations continue and may result in future state, federal or private rights of action including fines and/or penalties with respect to known or potential additional product registration issues. Until the U.S. EPA and U.S. DOJ investigations are complete, we cannot reasonably determine the scope or magnitude of possible liabilities that could result from known or potential product registration issues, and no reserves for these potential liabilities have been established as of September 30, 2009. However, it is possible that such liabilities, including fines, penalties, judgments and/or litigation costs could be material and have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. There can be no assurance that the ultimate outcome of the investigations will not result in further action against us, whether administrative, civil or criminal, by the U.S. EPA, the U.S. DOJ, state regulatory agencies or private litigants, and any such action, in addition to the costs we have incurred and would continue to incur in connection therewith, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In particular, the realization of a significant fine, penalty or judgment against us could materially affect our ability to remain in compliance with the leverage ratio or other covenants of our credit facilities, potentially causing us to have to seek an amendment or waiver from our lending group, which may increase our costs of borrowing. Product recalls, our inability to ship, sell or transport affected products and the on-going governmental investigation may harm our reputation and acceptance of our products by our retail customers and consumers, which may materially and adversely affect our business operations, decrease sales and increase costs. Compliance With Environmental and Other Public Health Regulations Could Increase Our Costs of Doing Business or Limit Our Ability to Market All of Our Products. Local, state, federal and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental matters affect us in several ways. In the United States, all products containing pesticides must comply with FIFRA and be registered with the U.S. EPA (and similar state agencies) before they can be sold or distributed. The inability to obtain or maintain such compliance, or the cancellation of any registration, could have an adverse effect on our business, the severity of which would depend on the products involved, whether another product could be substituted and whether our competitors were similarly affected. We attempt to anticipate regulatory developments and maintain registrations of, and access to, substitute active ingredients, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to avoid or reduce these risks. In the European Union (the “EU”), the European Parliament has adopted various forms of regulation which may substantially restrict or eliminate our ability to market and sell certain of our consumer and professional pesticide products in their current form in the EU. In addition, in Canada, regulations have been adopted by several provinces that substantially restrict our ability to market and sell certain of our consumer pesticide products. Under the Food Quality Protection Act, enacted by the U.S. Congress in 1996, food-use pesticides are evaluated to determine whether there is reasonable certainty that no harm will result from the cumulative effects of pesticide exposures. Under this Act, the U.S. EPA is evaluating the cumulative risks from dietary and non-dietary exposures to pesticides. The pesticides in our products, certain of which may be used on crops processed into various food products, are typically manufactured by independent third parties and continue to be evaluated by the 15 U.S. EPA as part of this exposure risk assessment. The U.S. EPA or the third-party registrant may decide that a pesticide we use in our products will be limited or made unavailable to us. For example, in December 2000, the U.S. EPA reached agreement with various parties, including manufacturers of the active ingredient diazinon, regarding a phased withdrawal from retailers by December 2004 of residential uses of products containing diazinon, which was also used in our lawn and garden products. We cannot predict the outcome or the severity of the effect of continuing evaluations. In addition, the use of certain pesticide and fertilizer products is regulated by various local, state, federal and foreign environmental and public health agencies. These regulations may include requirements that only certified or professional users apply the product or that certain products be used only on certain types of locations, require users to post notices on properties to which products have been or will be applied, or require notification to individuals in the vicinity that products will be applied in the future or ban the use of certain ingredients. Even if we are able to comply with all such regulations and obtain all necessary registrations, we cannot provide assurance that our products, particularly pesticide products, will not cause injury to the environment or to people under all circumstances. The costs of compliance, remediation or products liability have adversely affected operating results in the past and could materially adversely affect future quarterly or annual operating results. Perceptions that the products we produce and market are not safe could adversely affect us and contribute to the risk we will be subjected to legal action. We manufacture and market a number of complex chemical products, such as fertilizers, certain growing media, herbicides and pesticides. On occasion, allegations are made that some of our products have failed to perform up to expectations or have caused damage or injury to individuals or property. Based on reports of contamination at a third-party supplier’s vermiculite mine, the public may perceive that some of our products manufactured in the past using vermiculite are or may be contaminated. Public perception that our products are not safe, whether justified or not, could impair our reputation, involve us in litigation, damage our brand names and have a material adverse affect on our business. The harvesting of peat for our growing media business has come under increasing regulatory and environmental scrutiny. In the United States, state regulations frequently require us to limit our harvesting and to restore the property to an agreed-upon condition. In some locations, we have been required to create water retention ponds to control the sediment content of discharged water. In the United Kingdom, our peat extraction efforts are also the subject of regulation. In addition to the regulations already described, local, state, federal and foreign agencies regulate the disposal, handling and storage of waste, air and water discharges from our facilities. The adequacy of our current non-FIFRA compliance related environmental reserves and future provisions is based on our operating in substantial compliance with applicable environmental and public health laws and regulations, as well as the assumptions that we have both identified all of the significant sites that must be remediated and that there are no significant conditions of potential contamination that are unknown to us. If there is a significant change in the facts and circumstances surrounding these assumptions or if we are found not to be in substantial compliance with applicable environmental and public health laws and regulations, there could be a material adverse impact on future environmental capital expenditures and other environmental expenses and our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Increases in the Prices of Certain Raw Materials Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. Our ability to manage our cost structure can be adversely affected by movements in commodity and other raw material prices. Market conditions may limit our ability to raise selling prices to offset increases in our raw material costs. The uniqueness of our technologies can limit our ability to locate or utilize alternative inputs for certain products. For certain inputs, new sources of supply may have to be qualified under regulatory standards, which can require additional investment and delay bringing a product to market. 16 The Highly Competitive Nature of Our Markets Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Grow or Maintain Revenues. Each of our segments participates in markets that are highly competitive. Many of our competitors sell their products at prices lower than ours. Our most price sensitive customers may be more likely to trade down to lower price point products in a more challenging economic environment. We compete primarily on the basis of product innovation, product quality, product performance, value, brand strength, supply chain competency, field sales support, the strength of our relationships with major retailers and advertising. Some of our competitors have significant financial resources. The strong competition that we face in all of our markets may prevent us from achieving our revenue goals, which may have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our inability to continue to innovate, including by commercializing differentiated products to meet evolving consumer needs, could have a material adverse affect. Because of the Concentration of Our Sales to a Small Number of Retail Customers, the Loss of One or More of, or Significant Reduction in Orders From, Our Top Customers Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Results. Global Consumer net sales represented approximately 78% of our worldwide net sales in fiscal 2009. Our top three North American retail customers together accounted for 70% of our Global Consumer segment fiscal 2009 net sales and 42% of our outstanding accounts receivable as of September 30, 2009. Home Depot, Lowe’s and Walmart represented approximately 33%, 19% and 18%, respectively, of our fiscal 2009 Global Consumer net sales. The loss of, or reduction in orders from, Home Depot, Lowe’s, Walmart or any other significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, as could customer disputes regarding shipments, fees, merchandise condition or related matters. Our inability to collect accounts receivable from any of these customers could also have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We do not have long-term sales agreements with, or other contractual assurances as to future sales to, any of our major retail customers. In addition, continued consolidation in the retail industry has resulted in an increasingly concentrated retail base. To the extent such concentration continues to occur, our net sales and income from operations may be increasingly sensitive to deterioration in the financial condition of, or other adverse developments involving our relationship with, one or more of our customers. Adverse Weather Conditions Could Adversely Impact Financial Results. Weather conditions in North America and Europe can have a significant impact on the timing of sales in the spring selling season and overall annual sales. An abnormally wet and/or cold spring throughout North America or Europe could adversely affect both fertilizer and pesticide sales and, therefore, our financial results. Our Historical Seasonality Could Impair Our Ability to Pay Obligations As They Come Due, Including Our Operating Expenses. Because our products are used primarily in the spring and summer, our business is highly seasonal. For the past three fiscal years, 70% to 75% of our annual net sales have occurred in the second and third fiscal quarters combined. Our working capital needs and borrowings typically peak during the initial weeks of our third fiscal quarter because we are incurring expenditures in preparation for the spring selling season, while the majority of our revenue collections occur later in our third fiscal quarter. If cash on hand is insufficient to pay our obligations as they come due, including interest payments or operating expenses, at a time when we are unable to draw on our credit facilities, this seasonality could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. Adverse weather conditions could heighten this risk. 17 The Amount of Our Debt Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Obtain Financing in the Future, React to Changes in Our Business and Satisfy Our Obligations, Adversely Impacting Our Financial Condition. We have a significant amount of debt. Our inability to meet restrictive financial and non-financial covenants associated with that debt, or to generate sufficient cash flow to repay maturing debt, could adversely affect our financial condition. Our debt level could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flows from operating activities to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the cash flows available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, advertising, research and development efforts and other general corporate requirements; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; • expose us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because some of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. Our ability to make payments and to refinance our indebtedness, fund planned capital expenditures and acquisitions and pay dividends will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facilities in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We will need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before maturity. We cannot be sure that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms. Our credit facilities contain restrictive covenants and cross default provisions and require us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with those covenants and satisfy those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of these financial ratio covenants or other covenants could result in a default. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders could elect to declare the applicable outstanding indebtedness due immediately and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. We cannot be sure that our lenders would waive a default or that we could pay the indebtedness in full if it were accelerated. Our Significant International Operations Make Us Susceptible to Fluctuations in Currency Exchange Rates and to the Costs of International Regulation. We currently operate manufacturing, sales and service facilities outside of the United States, particularly in Canada, France, the United Kingdom, Germany and the Netherlands. In fiscal 2009, international net sales, including Canada, accounted for approximately 19% of our total net sales. Accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • limitations on the remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; • additional costs of compliance with local regulations; and • historically, in certain countries, higher rates of inflation than in the United States. In addition, our operations outside the United States are subject to the risk of new and different legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations and 18 potentially adverse tax consequences. The costs related to our international and Canadian operations could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows in the future. We May Not Be Able to Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property and Other Proprietary Rights That Are Material to Our Business. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our rights to service marks, trademarks, trade names and other intellectual property rights we own or license, particularly our registered brand names and issued patents. We have not sought to register every one of our marks either in the United States or in every country in which they are used. Furthermore, because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent and other intellectual property or proprietary rights laws, we may not receive the same protection in other countries as we would in the United States with respect to the registered brand names and issued patents we hold. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, proprietary information and/or brand names, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information, or to defend against claims by third parties that our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights. Any litigation or claims brought by or against us could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. A successful claim of trademark, patent or other intellectual property infringement against us, or any other successful challenge to the use of our intellectual property, could subject us to damages or prevent us from providing certain products or services under our recognized brand names, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If Monsanto Were to Terminate the Marketing Agreement for Consumer Roundup® Products Without Being Required to Pay Any Termination Fee, We Would Lose a Substantial Source of Future Earnings and Overhead Expense Absorption. If we were to commit a serious default under the Marketing Agreement with Monsanto for consumer Roundup® products, Monsanto may have the right to terminate the Marketing Agreement. If Monsanto were to terminate the Marketing Agreement for cause, we would not be entitled to any termination fee, and we would lose all, or a substantial portion, of the significant source of earnings and overhead expense absorption the Marketing Agreement provides. Monsanto may also be able to terminate the Marketing Agreement within a given region, including North America, without paying us a termination fee if unit volume sales to consumers in that region decline: (1) over a cumulative three-fiscal-year period; or (2) by more than 5% for each of two consecutive years. Hagedorn Partnership, L.P. Beneficially Owns Approximately 31% of Our Outstanding Common Shares on a Fully Diluted Basis. Hagedorn Partnership, L.P. beneficially owned approximately 31% of our outstanding common shares as of November 20, 2009, and has sufficient voting power to significantly influence the election of directors and the approval of other actions requiring the approval of our shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 