ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Statement on Forward-Looking Statements We have made and will make “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in our 2005 Annual Report, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other contexts relating to future growth and profitability targets and strategies designed to increase total shareholder value. Forward-looking statements also include, but are not limited to, information regarding our future economic and financial condition, the plans and objectives of our management and our assumptions regarding our performance and these plans and objectives. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a “safe harbor” for forward-looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long as those statements are 12 Table of Contents identified as forward-looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. We desire to take advantage of the “safe harbor” provisions of that Act. Some forward-looking statements that we make in our 2005 Annual Report, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other contexts represent challenging goals for our company, and the achievement of these goals is subject to a variety of risks and assumptions and numerous factors beyond our control. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make are described below. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons working on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the following cautionary statements. Products Perceptions that the products we produce and market are not safe could adversely affect us and contribute to the risk we will be subjected to legal action. We manufacture and market a number of complex chemical products, such as fertilizers, growing media, herbicides and pesticides, bearing our brand names. On occasion, allegations are made that some of our products have failed to perform up to expectations or have caused damage or injury to individuals or property. Based on reports of contamination at a third party supplier’s vermiculite mine, the public may perceive that some of our products manufactured in the past using vermiculite are or may also be contaminated. Public perception that our products are not safe, whether justified or not, could impair our reputation, involve us in litigation, damage our brand names and have a material adverse affect on our business. Weather and Seasonality Weather conditions in North America and Europe can have a significant impact on the timing of sales in the spring selling season and overall annual sales. An abnormally wet and/or cold spring throughout North America or Europe could adversely affect both fertilizer and pesticide sales and, therefore, our financial results. Because our products are used primarily in the spring and summer, our business is highly seasonal. For the past three fiscal years, more than 70% of our net sales have occurred in the second and third fiscal quarters combined. Our working capital needs and borrowings peak toward the end of our second fiscal quarter because we are incurring expenditures in preparation for the spring selling season while the majority of our revenue collections occur in our third fiscal quarter. If cash on hand is insufficient to pay our obligations as they come due, including interest payments or operating expenses, at a time when we are unable to draw on our credit facility, this seasonality could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. Adverse weather conditions could heighten this risk. Competition Each of our segments participates in markets that are highly competitive. Many of our competitors sell their products at prices lower than ours, and we compete primarily on the basis of product quality, product performance, value, brand strength, supply chain competency and advertising. Some of our competitors have significant financial resources. The strong competition that we face in all of our markets may prevent us from achieving our revenue goals, which may have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Customer Concentration North America segment net sales represented approximately 70% of our worldwide net sales in fiscal 2005. Our top three North American retail customers together accounted for 64% of our North America segment fiscal 2005 net sales and 80% of our outstanding accounts receivable as of September 30, 2005. Home Depot, Wal*Mart and Lowe’s represented approximately 33%, 17% and 14%, respectively, of our fiscal 2005 North America net sales. The loss of, or reduction in orders from, Home Depot, Wal*Mart, Lowe’s or any other significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our business and our financial results, as could customer disputes regarding shipments, fees, merchandise condition or related matters. Our inability to collect accounts receivable from any of these customers could also have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We do not have long-term sales agreements or other contractual assurances as to future sales to any of our major retail customers. In addition, continued consolidation in the retail industry has resulted in an increasingly concentrated retail base. To the extent such concentration continues to occur, our net sales and income from operations may be increasingly sensitive to deterioration in the financial condition of, or other adverse developments involving our relationship with, one or more customers. Significant Agreement If we were to commit a serious default under the marketing agreement with Monsanto for consumer Roundup® products, Monsanto may have the right to terminate the agreement. If Monsanto were to terminate the marketing agreement for cause, we would not be entitled to any termination fee, and we would lose all, or a significant portion, of the significant source of earnings and overhead expense absorption the marketing agreement provides. Monsanto may also be able to terminate the marketing agreement within a given region, including North America, without paying us a termination fee if sales to consumers in that region decline: (1) over a cumulative three fiscal year period; or (2) by more than 5% for each of two consecutive years. Debt We have a significant amount of debt that could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under outstanding indebtedness and otherwise; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flows from operating activities to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the cash flows available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, advertising, research and development efforts and other general corporate requirements; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and • expose us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because some of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends and the planned five-year stock repurchase plan will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our credit facility contains restrictive covenants and cross default provisions that require us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to satisfy those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot be assured we will satisfy those ratios. A breach of any of these financial ratio covenants or other covenants could result in a default. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders could elect to declare the applicable outstanding indebtedness due immediately and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. We cannot be sure that our lenders would waive a default or that we could pay the indebtedness in full if it were accelerated. 14 Table of Contents Equity Ownership Concentration Hagedorn Partnership, L.P. beneficially owned approximately 31% of our outstanding common shares as of December 1, 2005, and has sufficient voting power to significantly influence the election of directors and the approval of other actions requiring the approval of our shareholders. Regulatory and Environmental Local, state, federal and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental matters affect us in several ways. In the United States, all products containing pesticides must be registered with the U.S. EPA (and similar state agencies) before they can be sold. The inability to obtain or the cancellation of any such registration could have an adverse effect on our business, the severity of which would depend on the products involved, whether another product could be substituted and whether our competitors were similarly affected. We attempt to anticipate regulatory developments and maintain registrations of, and access to, substitute active ingredients, but there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to avoid or minimize these risks. The Food Quality Protection Act, enacted by the U.S. Congress in August 1996, establishes a standard for food-use pesticides, which standard is the reasonable certainty that no harm will result from the cumulative effect of pesticide exposures. Under this Act, the U.S. EPA is evaluating the cumulative risks from dietary and non-dietary exposures to pesticides. The pesticides in our products, certain of which may be used on crops processed into various food products, are typically manufactured by independent third parties and continue to be evaluated by the U.S. EPA as part of this exposure risk assessment. The U.S. EPA or the third party registrant may decide that a pesticide we use in our products will be limited or made unavailable to us. For example, in December 2000, the U.S. EPA reached agreement with various parties, including manufacturers of the active ingredient diazinon, regarding a phased withdrawal from retailers by December 2004 of residential uses of products containing diazinon, also used in our lawn and garden products. We cannot predict the outcome or the severity of the effect of their continuing evaluations. In addition, the use of certain pesticide and fertilizer products is regulated by various local, state, federal and foreign environmental and public health agencies. These regulations may include requirements that only certified or professional users apply the product or that certain products be used only on certain types of locations, may require users to post notices on properties to which products have been or will be applied, may require notification to individuals in the vicinity that products will be applied in the future or may ban the use of certain ingredients. Even if we are able to comply with all such regulations and obtain all necessary registrations, we cannot assure you that our products, particularly pesticide products, will not cause injury to the environment or to people under all circumstances. The costs of compliance, remediation or products liability have adversely affected operating results in the past and could materially affect future quarterly or annual operating results. The harvesting of peat for our growing media business has come under increasing regulatory and environmental scrutiny. In the United States, state regulations frequently require us to limit our harvesting and to restore the property to an agreed-upon condition. In some locations, we have been required to create water retention ponds to control the sediment content of discharged water. In the United Kingdom, our peat extraction efforts are also the subject of legislation. In addition to the regulations already described, local, state, federal and foreign agencies regulate the disposal, handling and storage of waste, air and water discharges from our facilities. The adequacy of our current environmental reserves and future provisions is based on our operating in substantial compliance with applicable environmental and public health laws and regulations and several significant assumptions: • that we have identified all of the significant sites that must be remediated; • that there are no significant conditions of potential contamination that are unknown to us; and • that with respect to the agreed judicial Consent Order in Ohio, the potentially contaminated soil can be remediated in place rather than having to be removed and only specific stream segments will require remediation as opposed to the entire stream. 15 Table of Contents If there is a significant change in the facts and circumstances surrounding these assumptions or if we are found not to be in substantial compliance with applicable environmental and public health laws and regulations, it could have a material impact on future environmental capital expenditures and other environmental expenses and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. European Economic Conditions and Foreign Currency Exposures We currently operate manufacturing, sales and service facilities outside of North America, particularly in the United Kingdom, Germany, France and the Netherlands. In fiscal 2005, International net sales accounted for approximately 18% of our total net sales. Accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with operations in foreign countries, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • limitations on the remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; • additional costs of compliance with local regulations; and • historically, in certain countries, higher rates of inflation than in the United States. In addition, our operations outside the United States are subject to the risk of new and different legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations and potentially adverse tax consequences. The costs related to our international operations could adversely affect our operations and financial results in the future. Restructuring Activities In June 2005, we commenced a long-term strategic improvement plan, focused on improving organizational effectiveness, implementing better business processes and reducing Selling, General and Administrative (“S,G&A”) expenses. This reorganization places significant pressure on many S,G&A functions to reduce headcount and streamline activities. While management believes these efforts will ultimately generate even stronger financial results, there can be no assurance that the plan will achieve all of its expected savings and that unanticipated difficulties may be encountered in executing the plan. Cost Pressures Our ability to manage our cost structure can be adversely affected by movements in commodity and other raw material prices, such as those experienced in fiscal 2005. Market conditions may limit the Company’s ability to raise selling prices to offset increases in our input costs. The uniqueness of our technologies can limit our ability to locate alternative supplies for certain products. For certain materials, new sources of supply may have to be qualified under regulatory standards, which can require additional investment and delay bringing the product to market. Manufacturing We use a combination of internal and outsourced facilities to manufacture our products. We are subject to the inherent risks in such activities, including product quality, safety, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, environmental events, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, disruptions in logistics, labor disputes and industrial accidents. Furthermore, we are subject to natural disasters and other factors over which the Company has no control. Acquisitions From time to time we make strategic acquisitions, including the October 2004 acquisition of Smith & Hawken®, the October 2005 acquisition of Rod McLellan Company (RMC) and the November 2005 acquisition of Gutwein (Morning Song®). Acquisitions have inherent risks, such as obtaining necessary regulatory approvals, retaining key personnel, integration of the acquired business, and achievement of planned synergies and projections. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 