Risk Factors — We are subject to many environmental laws and regulations that require significant expenditures for compliance and remediation efforts, and changes in the law could increase those expenses and adversely affect our operations.” Employees. We operate 67 facilities (64 in the United States and 3 in Canada) and have approximately 3,200 employees, of whom approximately 2,500 are hourly and 700 are salaried. Approximately 769 of our hourly employees are represented by labor unions. All principal union contracts expire during the period 2009-2010. Our union contracts that expire in 2009 cover approximately 307 of our hourly employees. Although we consider our relations with our employees to be good, we can give no assurance that we will be able to renegotiate union contracts with terms acceptable to us or at all, or that there will not be any work stoppage or other labor disturbance at any of our facilities. Work stoppages or other labor disturbances at one or more of our facilities may cause significant disruptions to our operations at such facilities, which may materially and adversely impact our results of operations. 6 Table of Contents Executive Officers. The names and ages, positions and period of service of each of our Company’s executive officers are set forth below. The term of office for each executive officer expires upon the earlier of the appointment and qualification of a successor or such officer’s death, resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification. Name and Age Position Period of Service as Executive Officerand pre-Executive Officerexperience (if an ExecutiveOfficer for less than 5 years) Michael J. Keough (57) President and Chief Executive Officer; Director President and CEO since 1/2005; Director since 10/2002; Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer 3/2002-2004. Ronald J. Domanico (50) Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Director Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 1/2005; Director since 5/2006; Vice President and CFO 10/2002-12/2004. Steven L. Kelchen (51) Senior Vice President, Operations Since 11/2008; 5/2006-2008 Vice President, Converted Products Group; 8/2004-2006 Vice President, Caraustar Custom Packaging Group; 2000-2004 Vice President, Regional Manager, Folding Cartons & Labels’ Smurfit Stone Container Corporation. Thomas C. Dawson, Jr. (57) Vice President, Mill Group (Retired) Since 12/2003; employed with Caraustar Mill Group since 1973, retired December 31, 2008. John R. Foster (63) Vice President, Sales and Marketing (Retired) Since 9/1996, retired December 31, 2008. Gregory B. Cottrell (51) Vice President, Recovered Fiber Group Since 10/2004; employed with Caraustar Recovered Fiber Group since 1994. William A. Nix, III (57) Vice President, Finance and Chief Accounting Officer Since 1/2005; 4/2001-2004 Vice President, Treasurer and Controller. Barry A. Smedstad (62) Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer Since 1/1999. Wilma E. Beaty (42) Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Since 1/2007; employed with Caraustar since 2004; May 1999 through 2003 Corporate Counsel, Wegmans Food Markets, Inc. a regional food retail chain with stores in New York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Virginia and Maryland. 7 Table of Contents Website. Our corporate website is www.caraustar.com. There you can access general information about our company, as well as our SEC filings. See “Introduction” above for more information regarding our website. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors should consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information presented in this annual report and the other reports and registration statements we file from time to time with the SEC, in evaluating us, our business and an investment in our securities. Any of the following risks, as well as other risks, uncertainties, and possibly inaccurate assumptions underlying our plans and expectations, could result in harm to our business and financial results and cause the value of our securities to decline, which in turn could cause investors to lose part or all of their investment in our Company. Investors are advised that it is impossible to identify or predict all risks that could affect us. Thus, the risks below are not the only ones facing our Company, and additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent public accounting firm has issued an opinion on our consolidated financial statements that states that the consolidated financial statements were prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern and further states that our inability to refinance our Senior Notes raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our plans concerning these matters are discussed in Note 19 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements. Our future is dependent on our ability to successfully execute our plan or otherwise address these matters. If we are unsuccessful, we would not be able to continue as a going concern and could potentially be forced to seek relief through a filing under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our liquidity. Additionally, we may not be able to satisfy our current debt obligations, which could adversely impact our ability to continue as a going concern. We have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness. See “Selected Financial Data,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” and the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this annual report. Our substantial level of indebtedness, including our Senior Notes maturing in 2009, increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on, or other amounts in respect of our indebtedness. Given the substantial constraints in the credit markets, it is likely that we will be unable to refinance our Senior Notes. Continuing as a going concern is dependent on a resolution that will allow the refinancing or restructuring of the Senior Notes. Such resolution will involve discussions with the noteholders. The noteholders have formed an ad hoc committee to facilitate discussions. The outcome of those discussions, however, is uncertain. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2008, there is substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our substantial leverage could have significant consequences to holders of our debt and equity securities. For example, it could: • affect our viability as a going concern; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; • increase our vulnerability to general, adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • require us to sell debt or equity securities, or to sell some of our assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, introducing new technologies or exploiting business opportunities; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; 8 Table of Contents • place us at a possible disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed its view that there are material uncertainties which cast significant doubt upon our ability to continue as a going concern. The addition of this going concern disclosure may also adversely impact our relationships with customers, suppliers, vendors and employees. Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by downturns in industrial production, housing and construction and the consumption of nondurable and durable goods. Demand for our products in our four principal end use markets is primarily driven by the following factors: • Tube and core — industrial production, construction spending and consumer nondurable consumption • Folding cartons — consumer nondurable consumption and industrial production • Gypsum wallboard facing paper — long-term interest rates, single and multifamily construction, repair and remodeling construction and commercial construction • Specialty paperboard products — consumer nondurable consumption and consumer durable consumption. Downturns in any of these sectors will result in decreased demand for our products. In particular, our business has been adversely affected in recent periods by the general slow-down in industrial demand and housing and construction. These conditions are beyond our ability to control, but have had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on our sales and results of operations. Our common stock could be delisted. Our common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market System (“Nasdaq”). Nasdaq imposes, among other requirements, listing maintenance standards as well as minimum bid and public float requirements. The price of our common stock must close at or above $1.00 to comply with Nasdaq’s minimum bid requirement for continued listing on Nasdaq. Recently, our common stock has closed at a price well below $1.00 per share. On October 16, 2008, Nasdaq announced the immediate suspension of its enforcement of the rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price and that it will not take any action to delist any security traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market that fails to comply with the minimum $1.00 closing bid price requirement until April 20, 2009. Consequently, for as long as Nasdaq’s rule suspension remains in effect, Nasdaq should not delist our stock on the basis of the closing bid price for our common stock if it is trading below $1.00 per share during the rule suspension period. If the closing bid price of our common stock continues to trade below Nasdaq’s minimum closing bid price requirement at any time on or after April 20, 2009, or if we otherwise fail to meet all other applicable Nasdaq requirements, Nasdaq may make a determination to delist our common stock. Any such delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and the market price of our common stock could decrease and could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and/or result in the loss of confidence by investors, customers, suppliers and employees. In the future, we may not be able to meet the continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq. Trading, if any, in our common stock would thereafter be conducted on another exchange or quotation system. As a consequence of any such delisting, a stockholder would likely find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the prices for our common stock. We are adversely affected by the cycles, conditions and problems inherent in our industry. Our operating results tend to reflect the general cyclical nature of the business in which we operate. In addition, our industry has suffered from excess capacity. Our industry also is capital intensive, which leads to 9 Table of Contents high fixed costs and generally results in continued production as long as prices are sufficient to cover variable costs. These conditions have contributed to substantial price competition and volatility within our industry. In a recession, demand and prices for our products tend to drop substantially. Our profitability historically has been more sensitive to price changes than to changes in volume. Future decreases in prices for our products could adversely affect our operating results. These factors, coupled with our substantially leveraged financial position, may adversely affect our ability to respond to competition and to other market conditions or to otherwise take advantage of business opportunities. Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by future increases in raw material and other operating costs. Our primary raw material is recycled paper, which is known in our industry as “recovered fiber.” The cost of recovered fiber has, at times, fluctuated greatly because of factors such as shortages or surpluses created by market or industry conditions. Although we have historically raised the selling prices of our products in response to raw material price increases, sometimes raw material prices have increased so quickly or to such levels that we have been unable to pass the price increases through to our customers on a timely basis, which has adversely affected our operating margins. We cannot give assurance that we will be able to pass such price increases through to our customers on a timely basis and maintain our margins in the face of raw material cost fluctuations in the future. Historically we have announced price increases on our products to help offset increases in other operating costs as well, such as energy, freight, employee benefits and insurance. Although we seek to realize the full benefit of these announced price increases, our ability to do so is dependent on numerous factors, such as customer acceptance of these increases, market dynamics including supply and demand, and contractual commitments that may prescribe the timing and amount of future price increases, without direct market correlation. For all these reasons, we may not be able to realize the full benefits of pricing increases that we announce and work to implement. Our operating margins and cash flow may be adversely affected by rising energy costs. Excluding raw materials and labor, energy is our most significant manufacturing cost. Energy consists of electrical purchases and fuel used to generate steam used in the paper making process and to operate our paperboard machines and all of our other converting machinery. Our energy costs in 2008 increased 16.9% compared to 2007. In 2007, the average energy cost in our mill system was approximately $65 per ton and in 2008 it was $76 per ton. In 2007, we experienced a 12.2% decrease in energy costs compared to 2006. Until the last several years, our business had not been significantly affected by fluctuating energy costs, and we historically have not passed energy cost increases through to our customers. Although we have responded to recent energy cost increases by raising our selling prices, our ability to realize the full benefit of these price increases is dependent on, and limited by dynamics such as pricing strategies of our competitors and contractual commitments that affect our ability to raise prices as fast as our costs increase. Consequently, we may not be able to pass through to our customers all of the energy cost increases we have incurred. As a result, our operating margins could be adversely affected. Although we continue to evaluate our energy costs and consider ways to factor energy costs into our pricing, we cannot give assurance that our operating margins and results of operations will not continue to be adversely affected by rising energy costs. Our business may suffer from risks associated with growth and acquisitions. Historically, we have grown our business, revenues and production capacity to a significant degree through acquisitions. However, due to the difficult operating climate currently facing our industry and our financial position, we have curtailed our acquisition activity, and accordingly, our revenue has declined as we have focused on conserving cash and maximizing the productivity of our existing facilities. We expect, however, to continue to evaluate and strategically pursue acquisition opportunities, subject to available funding and credit 10 Table of Contents flexibility. Growth through acquisition involves risks, many of which may continue to affect us based on previous acquisitions. We cannot give assurance that our acquired businesses will achieve the same levels of revenue, profit or productivity as our existing locations or otherwise perform as we expect. Acquisitions also involve specific risks. Some of these risks include: • assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies; • diversion of management’s attention; and • possible reduction of our reported earnings because of: • goodwill and intangible asset impairment; • increased interest costs; • issuances of additional securities or incurrence of debt; and • difficulties in integrating acquired businesses. As we grow, we can give no assurance that we will be able to: • use the increased production capacity of any new or improved facilities; • identify suitable acquisition candidates; • complete additional acquisitions; or • integrate acquired businesses into our operations. If we cannot raise the necessary capital for, or use our stock to finance acquisitions, expansion plans or other significant corporate opportunities, our growth may be impaired. As described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources,” our Senior Credit Facility and Senior Notes impose limitations on our ability to make acquisitions or other strategic investments. Without additional capital, we may have to curtail any acquisition and expansion plans or forego other significant corporate opportunities that may be vital to our long-term success. If our revenues and cash flow do not meet expectations, then we may lose our ability to borrow money or have to do so on terms that we consider less favorable. Conditions in the capital markets also will affect our ability to borrow, as well as the terms of those borrowings. In addition, our financial performance and the conditions of the capital markets will also affect the value of our common stock, which could make it a less attractive form of consideration in making acquisitions. All of these factors could also make it difficult or impossible for us to expand in the future. We are subject to many environmental laws and regulations that require significant expenditures for compliance and remediation efforts, and changes in the law could increase those expenses and adversely affect our operations. Compliance with the environmental requirements of international, federal, state and local governments significantly affects our business. Among other things, these requirements regulate the discharge of materials into the water, air and land and govern the use and disposal of hazardous substances. These regulations are complex, and our compliance with them can be affected by a myriad of factors, including rates of production, changes in applicable standards or interpretations, human error, equipment malfunction and other factors. From time to time, we have and may continue to find that we have inadvertently failed to meet specific regulations or standards despite our efforts to comply with them. Under environmental laws, we also can be held strictly liable if hazardous substances are found on real property we previously owned, operated or used as a disposal site. Despite our compliance efforts, risk of environmental liability is part of the nature of our business. We maintain and generate hazardous substances at some facilities, and although we do not believe that any related liabilities or remedial costs will be material, we cannot give assurance that environmental liabilities, including compliance and remediation costs, will not have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, future events may lead to additional compliance or other costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Such future events could include changes in, or new interpretations of, existing laws, regulations or enforcement policies, 11 Table of Contents discoveries of past releases, failure of indemnitors to fulfill their obligations, or further investigation of the potential health hazards of certain products or business activities. Our industry is highly competitive and price fluctuations and volatility could diminish our sales volume and revenues. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive. Our competitors include other large, vertically integrated paperboard, packaging and gypsum wallboard manufacturing companies, including National Gypsum Company, The Newark Group, Inc., the Rock-Tenn Company, Smurfit-Stone Container Corporation, the Sonoco Products Company and Graphic Packaging, along with numerous smaller paperboard and packaging companies. As a result of product substitution, we also compete indirectly with manufacturers selling to the same end-use markets, which products use other materials including flexible packaging. In addition, we face increasing competition from foreign paperboard and packaging producers as a result of the continued migration of U.S. manufacturing offshore to find lower labor cost and the emergence of new, foreign competitors in these countries. The industry in which we compete is particularly sensitive to price pressure, as well as other factors, including quality, service, innovation and design, with varying emphasis on these factors depending on the product line. To the extent that one or more of our competitors becomes more successful with respect to any key competitive factors, our ability to attract and retain customers could be materially adversely affected. Some of our competitors are less leveraged than we are and have access to greater resources. These companies may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies, respond to changes in customer requirements and withstand industry-wide pricing pressures. If our facilities are not as cost efficient as those of our competitors or if our competitors lower prices, we may need to temporarily or permanently close certain facilities, which could negatively affect our sales volume and revenues. We have incurred, and may incur additional, material restructuring charges, and we may not be successful in achieving the cost reductions contemplated by our recent and future restructuring activities. Restructuring has been a primary component of our management’s strategy to address the decrease in demand resulting from secular trends and generally weak domestic economic conditions. Between 2001 and 2008, restructuring and impairment costs have totaled $381.4 million, of which approximately $330.7 million have been noncash charges. These restructuring and impairment costs include $125.3 million we recorded during 2008 for the impairment of goodwill. We have also experienced additional manufacturing and selling, general and administrative costs as a result of transitioning of business within our mill and converting systems to other company facilities. Our restructuring efforts have been directed toward reducing costs through rationalization of manufacturing and converting facilities. However, we can give no assurance that the cost reductions contemplated by our recent and future restructuring activities will be achieved within the expected timeframe, or at all. Any delays or failure in delivering products to our customers due to our facilities rationalization may result in order cancellations or termination of customer relationships, all of which could adversely impact our competitive position and would offset any cost savings we might have achieved. Restructurings involve numerous risks, such as the diversion of management and employee attention, disruptions in customer relationships, production and capacity, and execution risks. Although under current market conditions we expect that restructuring charges will decline, we may incur material restructuring charges in the future, which may exceed our expectations if market conditions change. The recognition of these restructuring charges can cause our reported financial results for a given period to differ materially from our own expectations and those of investors generally, and can accordingly cause the trading prices of our securities to fluctuate significantly depending on the degree to which investors consider these charges relevant in evaluating our financial results and prospects. Significant disruptions to our operations may materially and adversely affect our earnings. We operate approximately 67 mills and converting facilities (64 in the United States and 3 in Canada). Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, fires, ice storms, wind storms, floods and other weather conditions, unforeseen operating problems and other events beyond our control may adversely affect the 12 Table of Contents operations of our mills and converting facilities, which in turn would materially and adversely affect our earnings. Any losses due to such events may not be covered by our existing insurance policies. In the event that an occurrence of a natural disaster affected multiple locations, this event could materially and adversely affect our earnings. In addition, a significant percentage of our hourly employees are represented by labor unions, with all principal union contracts expiring between 2009 and 2010. Although we consider our relations with our employees to be good, we cannot provide any assurance that the union contracts will be renewed in a timely manner, on terms acceptable to us, or at all, or that there will not be any work stoppage or other labor disturbance at any of our facilities. Work stoppages or other labor disturbances at one or more of our facilities may cause significant disruptions to our operations at such facilities, which may materially and adversely impact our results of operations. Our business is subject to changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure that have increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. Because our common shares are publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and Nasdaq, have in recent years issued new requirements and regulations, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. From time to time, since the adoption of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, these authorities have continued to develop additional regulations or interpretations of existing regulations. Our ongoing efforts to comply with these regulations and interpretations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Because these new and changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, their application in practice may continue to evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and impose additional costs on us to revise our disclosure and governance practices accordingly. The failure to effectively modernize and implement our information systems will adversely affect our operations, and the failure to complete the transition to our new information infrastructure could adversely affect our business. The success of our business has become increasingly dependent on our ability to integrate computer technology into our operations. Complex computer systems have become indispensable to the timely processing of the volume of transactions generated by our daily operations. Our ability to obtain and service business depends on our ability to convey, internally and externally, accurate and timely information processed on these complex systems. We have recently replaced our core systems and reengineered our processes. These systems are very complex and interdependent and are critical to our success. Due to the extensive effort required to replace these systems and reengineer our processes, we are at risk for a system failure that could, among other problems, result in service interruptions or the production of incorrect data. Such system, process or programming failures, or the cumulative effect of such failures, including any resulting reliance upon information found to be inaccurate or unreliable, could result in the loss of existing customers, difficulty attracting new customers, problems in determining cost of production and establishing appropriate pricing, regulatory problems, increases in operating expenses and other material adverse consequences or material effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There were no unresolved staff comments as of December 31, 2008. 13 Table of Contents 