ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Relating to Our Business We have a history of losses and we may not be profitable in any future period. In each fiscal year since our organization in 1987 we have not made an operating profit. We have an accumulated deficit in excess of $350 million from our inception through February 29, 2008. Since emerging from bankruptcy, we have incurred approximately $15 million in losses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability or positive cash flow. If we are unable to raise capital, our ability to implement our current business plan and ultimately our viability as a company could be adversely affected. The cash flow generated from our operations to date has not been sufficient to fund our working capital needs, and we cannot predict when operating cash flow will be sufficient to fund working capital needs. In June 2005 we were forced to file for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, from which we emerged under a court-approved plan of reorganization on January 31, 2006. In the past, in order to maintain liquidity we have relied upon external sources of financing, principally equity financing and private and bank indebtedness. We have no bank line of credit and require additional debt or equity financing to fund ongoing operations. We have no firm commitments from third parties to provide additional financing and we cannot assure you that financing will be available at the times or in the amounts required. If we cannot raise needed funds, we would be forced to make substantial reductions in our operating expenses, which could adversely affect our ability to implement our current business plan and ultimately our viability as a company. Our auditors have qualified their reports on our financial statements to indicate that there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern, which could adversely affect our ability to obtain third party financing. Our auditors, Kabani and Company, have qualified their reports on the current financial statements to indicate that there is “substantial doubt” about our ability to continue as a going concern. This opinion is based upon our continuing losses from operations. The existence of the going concern qualification could affect our ability to obtain financing from third parties or could result in increased cost of this financing. Our success over the short-term depends on the commercial success of the AuraGen® products, as we are not currently engaged in any other line of business. Because we have focused our business on developing mobile power solutions in the 3,000 to 25,000 watts range, rather than on diversifying into other areas, our success in the foreseeable future will be dependent upon the commercial success of the AuraGen® product line. We may have difficulty managing our growth. We will need to hire employees, rebuild our sales and production infrastructure and improve our operating and financial systems in order to effectively manage any significant growth in demand for our products. If we do not effectively manage our growth, we will not be successful in executing our business plan, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The market acceptance of the AuraGen® is uncertain. Our business is dependent upon sales generated from the AuraGen® family of products and increasing acceptance of these products. We cannot assure you that our products will achieve broad acceptance in the marketplace. The AuraGen® uses new technology and has only been available in the marketplace for a few years. Our financial condition has limited our ability to market the AuraGen® to potential customers. Because our product is radically different from traditionally available mobile power solutions, users may require lengthy evaluation periods in order to gain confidence in the product. OEMs and large fleet users also typically require considerable time to make changes to their planning and production. 12 Our business may be adversely affected by industry competition. The industry in which we operate is competitive. We face substantial competition from companies that have been offering traditional solutions such as Gensets for the last 50 years, and there are more than 40 Genset manufacturers in the United States. These competitors include: Onan, Honda and Kohler. Most of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do, have larger budgets for research, new product development and marketing and have long-standing customer relationships. We must compete with many larger and more established companies in the hiring and retention of qualified personnel. Moreover, this market may attract new competitors that have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. Our failure to meet our projections for our products’ market acceptance or the ability of our competitors to capture a first mover advantage could have a material adverse impact upon our business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, new product introductions or product enhancements by our current or future competitors or the use of other technologies could cause a loss of market acceptance of our products. We depend on our intellectual property to provide us with a competitive advantage. We rely on a number of patents and patent applications to protect the AuraGen® products from unauthorized use by competitors. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may not prevent infringement by others or ensure that these rights will provide us with a competitive advantage. We cannot assure you that the patents pending relating to the AuraGen® system or future patent applications will be issued or that any issued patents will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. A portion of our proprietary technology depends upon trade secrets and unpatented technology and proprietary knowledge related to the development, promotion and operation of our products. While we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and vendors, we cannot assure you that our trade secrets and proprietary technology will not become known or be independently developed by competitors in such a manner that we have no practical recourse, and there can be no assurance that others will not develop or acquire equivalent expertise or develop products that render our current or future products noncompetitive or obsolete. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights could be time-consuming and expensive and could divert our technical and management personnel from their work. We cannot assure you that such litigation expenses will not occur in the future. There also can be no assurance that other parties will not take, or threaten to take, legal action against us, alleging infringement of such parties” patents by our current or proposed products. We cannot assure you that we will have adequate financial resources to successfully institute or defend intellectual property litigation. Insurance coverage to indemnify us against liability for infringement of other parties’ intellectual property rights is either unavailable or prohibitively expensive. Competition for key employees is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be able to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. While we may enter into agreements with our employees regarding patents, confidentiality and related matters, we do not generally have employment agreements with our employees. The loss of key personnel, especially without notice, or the inability to hire or retain qualified personnel, particularly given our anticipated growth, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We depend on third party manufacturers for certain product components. We rely extensively on subcontracts with third parties for the manufacture of most components of the AuraGen®. If these providers do not produce these products on a timely basis, if the products do not meet our specifications and quality control standards, or if the products are otherwise flawed, we may have to delay product delivery, or recall or replace unacceptable products. In addition, such failures could damage our reputation and could adversely affect our operating results. As a result, we could lose potential customers and any revenues that we may have at that time may decline dramatically. Although we generally use standard industrial and electrical parts and components for our products, some of our components are currently available only from a single source or from limited sources. We may experience delays in production of the AuraGen® if we fail to identify alternate vendors or if any parts supply is interrupted or reduced, or if there is a significant increase in production costs or decline in component quality. 13 We will need to renew sources of supply to meet increases in demand for the AuraGen®. We purchased the basic components for the AuraGen® units currently being sold under a bulk order placed prior to fiscal 2001. Due to sales not meeting anticipated levels, we have been selling from this inventory. In order to renew this inventory, we will need to renew contracts with such manufacturers or locate other suitable manufacturers. Although we believe that there are a number of potential manufacturers of the components, we cannot assure you that renewed contracts for components can be obtained on favorable terms. Any material adverse change in such contracts could increase our cost of goods. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Because our operating results have been uneven and may continue to fluctuate, this could affect our stock price. Because our efforts since 1999 have been focused entirely on the introduction of the AuraGen® family of products into the marketplace, our revenues and operating results have been uneven and may continue to be so during our current fiscal year and beyond. These fluctuations could affect our stock price. Factors which could affect our operating results include: - The size, timing and shipment of individual orders; - Market acceptance of our products; - Development of direct and indirect sales channels; and - The timing of introduction of new products or enhancements. We have a history of filing late periodic reports with the SEC. In June 1999, we failed to file our Annual Report on Form 10-K on the due date prescribed by the SEC, as we were unable to complete the audit of our financial statements. This in turn delayed the filing of three subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. The delay was occasioned by inadequate financial resources brought about by severe financial difficulties of our computer peripherals subsidiary, NewCom, which ceased operations in the first quarter of 1999. As a result of the delinquent filings, our common stock was de-listed from the Nasdaq National Market in July 1999. In February 2000, we completed our financial restructuring and filed all delinquent SEC reports, and listed our common stock on the NASD, Inc. OTC Bulletin Board (the “OTCBB”). From February 2005, through March 2008, we failed to timely file quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and Annual Reports on Form 10-K. This delay was caused by inadequate financial resources, culminating in our filing for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in June 2005. We emerged from Chapter 11 under a court approved reorganization plan on January 31, 2006. We filed all of our delinquent reports in March of 2008, and on April 15, 2008, we were listed on the OTCBB under the symbol AUSI. Continued listing on the OTCBB and other U.S. exchanges requires that we timely file periodic SEC reports. Our failure to remain timely in our filings, therefore, could result in the delisting of our common stock on the OTCBB, which in turn could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock. We may issue additional shares of our authorized common stock without obtaining the approval of our stockholders. As of the date of this report, our corporate charter currently authorized our Board of Directors to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 39,228,226 shares were outstanding as of May 15, 2008. The power of the Board of Directors to issue authorized shares of common stock is generally not subject to stockholder approval under Delaware state law, the state of our corporate organization. Any additional issuance of our common stock may have the effect of further diluting the equity interest of stockholders, and such dilution could be substantial. 14 Because our common stock is subject to rules governing low priced securities, market liquidity for our common stock could be adversely impacted. Our common stock trades below $5.00 per share and is not listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market or a national or regional securities exchange. Therefore, our common stock is subject to the low priced security or so-called “penny stock” rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require, among other things, the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a disclosure schedule required by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. These rules also require that the broker determine, based upon information obtained from the investor, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor, and require the broker to obtain the written consent of the investor prior to effecting the penny stock transaction. The broker-dealer must also disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. As long as our common stock is characterized as a penny stock, the market liquidity for these shares could be severely affected. The regulations relating to penny stocks could limit the ability of broker-dealers to sell these securities and, in turn, the ability of stockholders to sell their shares in the secondary market. The potential exercise of outstanding warrants and options could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, dilute the holdings of existing stockholders and impede our ability to obtain additional equity financing. As of February 29, 2008, we had outstanding 8,471,679 options and warrants to purchase our common stock at exercise prices ranging between $2.00 and $4.00. If those option and warrant holders exercise these securities, we will be obligated to issue additional shares of common stock at the stated exercise price. As of May 15, 2008, the closing price of our common stock was $1.04 per share. The existence of such rights to acquire common stock at fixed prices may prove a hindrance to our efforts to raise future equity funding, and the exercise of such rights will dilute the percentage ownership interest of our stockholders and may dilute the value of their ownership. Future sale of shares issuable on the exercise of outstanding warrants and options at fixed prices below prevailing market prices, or expectations of such sales, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock, particularly since such warrants or options may be exercised at a fixed price and resold. Further, the holders of the outstanding warrants may exercise them at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on terms more favorable to us. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Although our stockholders may receive dividends if, as and when declared by our Board of Directors, we do not presently intend to pay dividends on our common stock until we are able to generate revenues and profits on a sustained basis and available cash exceeds our working capital requirements. Therefore, you should not purchase our common stock if you need immediate or future income by way of dividends from your investment. ITEM 