Item 1A. Risk Factors Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future, which could cause our stock price to be volatile and result in losses to our investors We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future. Some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include: •the resumption of recent adverse economic conditions, particularly within the telecommunications equipment industry, which may result in revenue declines; •restructuring and integration-related charges; •goodwill and intangible assets impairment charges related to acquisitions and related long-term assets; •our ability to obtain sufficient supplies of sole or limited source components at commercially reasonable prices; •changes in our products or mix of sales to customers; •the possibility that, despite our having been approved as a supplier in requests for proposals from several major wireline customers, these proposals will not result in any purchases; •our ability to manage fluctuations in manufacturing yields of rubidium oscillators and cesium tubes; •our ability to manage the level and value of our inventories in relation to sales volume; •our ability to accurately anticipate the volume and timing of customer orders or customer cancellations; •our ability to collect receivables from our customers; •the gain or loss of significant customers; •fluctuations in government spending for infrastructure investment; • timing of purchases from customers on projects, for example Verizon and AT&T, may be impacted due to spending delays, availability of resources for installation, and delays in new product availability; •our ability to introduce new products in new and existing markets on a timely and cost-effective basis; •customer delays in qualification of new products; 14 •market acceptance of new or enhanced versions of our products and our competitors' products; •our ability to manage increased competition and competitive pricing pressures; •increased industry consolidation among our customers, which may lead to decreased demand for, and downward pricing pressure on the prices of, our products; •our ability to timely implement changes developed as a result of our process improvement projects without negatively impacting operations; •our ability to manage fluctuations in the average selling prices of our products; •our ability to manage the long sales cycle associated with our products; •our ability to manage cyclical conditions in the telecommunications industry; •our ability to retain key employees, which could affect our ability to sell, develop and deliver our products; •reduced rates of growth of telecommunications services; •customers may delay upgrading their old equipment with our new products; •our ability to establish in a timely fashion subsidiaries in new geographic regions, which our customers or potential customers may require to do business with us in those regions; •customers may experience labor strikes, which could result in reduced sales volume; •customers in the wireless market may switch from buying rubidium-based products, which we internally manufacture, to quartz-based products, which we purchase and sell at a lower price point, which may result in lower revenue and gross margins; and •a global pandemic, if not contained. A significant portion of our operating and manufacturing expenses are relatively fixed in nature, and planned expenditures are based in part on anticipated orders. If we are unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected future sales shortfall, our operating results will be negatively impacted. Our operations entail a high level of fixed costs and require an adequate volume of production and sales to achieve and maintain reasonable gross profit margins and net earnings. If we increase the volume of product manufacturing by outside sources and decrease our internal production, we could incur higher fixed costs (per unit) and integration and restructuring charges. Significant decreases in demand for our products or reduction in our average selling prices, or any material delay in customer orders may negatively harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future results depend in large part on growth in the markets for our products. The growth in each of these markets may depend on changes in general economic and regulatory conditions, conditions related to the markets in which we compete, changes in regulatory conditions, legislation, export rules or conditions, interest rates and fluctuations in the business cycle for any particular market segment. If our quarterly or annual operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. We may be required to record additional goodwill and intangible impairment charges in future quarters As of June 29, 2008, we had recorded goodwill and intangible assets with a net book value of $48.1 million and $7.2 million respectively, related to various acquisitions. We test for impairment at least annually and more frequently whenever evidence of impairment exists. When we performed our annual impairment test for fiscal 2008, we determined that goodwill and intangibles related to our Quality of Experience Assurance business segment were impaired in full by approximately $14.3 million. If our future financial performance or other events indicate that the value of our 15 recorded goodwill or intangibles is impaired, we may record additional impairment charges that could have a material adverse effect on our reported results. We may be impacted by disruptions and liquidity issues in the credit market, which may unfavorably impact our financial condition and results of operations We invest excess funds in specific instruments and issuers approved for inclusion in our cash and short-term investment accounts. Our investment criteria are to invest only in top tier quality investments or federally sponsored investments. Top tier quality investments are determined by our investment advisor in conjunction with ratings of those investments provided by outside ratings agencies as well as our investment advisor's internal credit specialists. Our cash consists of overnight instruments and instruments that will mature within ninety days from the date of purchase. Our short-term investment portfolio consists of instruments that mature between ninety-one days and three years after the end of our fiscal quarter. Based upon recent events in the credit market, we may be impacted by the following risks: •We may experience temporary or permanent declines in the value of certain instruments which would be reflected in our financial statements. During fiscal 2008, we recorded $3.7 million in losses related to short-term investments; •We may experience rating agency downgrades of instruments we currently own which may degrade our portfolio quality and cause us to take impairment charges; •We may not be able to reasonably value our investments if there is not a liquid resale market for those instruments; •We may experience losses on the sale of certain instruments if we do not have sufficient operating cash to run our business and are required to sell short-term investments to meet cash flow requirements; and •Our 3.25% Contingent Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2025, of which approximately $56.9 million in aggregate principal amount is currently outstanding, are subject to repurchase in 2012 and may be convertible prior to the maturity date into cash if during the five consecutive business-day period following any five consecutive trading-day period in which the trading price for the notes for each such trading day was less than 95% of the average of the sale price of our common stock during such five trading-day period multiplied by the then current conversion rate. In addition to the above risks, the recent events in the credit market may also impact our customers, and we may be impacted by the following risks: •We may experience lower revenues if our customers decide to reduce their capital spending plans; •Customers may delay payments to us reducing our operating cash flow; and •We may experience an increase in accounts receivable write-offs if customers are unable to pay their obligations. Public confidence and share value may be adversely impacted by material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in all annual reports. Section 404 also 16 requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. During fiscal 2007, we identified two material weaknesses in our controls over financial reporting. Both material weaknesses resulted in quarterly restatements in fiscal 2007, one for the second quarter and the other for the third quarter. One of the material weaknesses was remediated prior to year end. Since the other material weakness was not remediated prior to July 1, 2007, our management determined that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of July 1, 2007. Subsequent to filing our Form 10-K for fiscal 2007, we identified a third material weakness in our internal control environment due to an operating deficiency in the completeness, accuracy, and existence of amounts in the accrued receipts account, and a design deficiency in the subsequent reconciliation and review process. We cannot assure you that we will not identify other material weaknesses in our internal controls in the future. As a result, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and stock price. We will need to continue to evaluate, upgrade and enhance our internal controls. Because of inherent limitations, our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements, errors or omissions, and any projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal controls to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures may deteriorate. We cannot be certain in future periods that other control deficiencies that may constitute one or more "significant deficiencies" (as defined by the relevant auditing standards), or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, will not be identified. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement or difficulty in implementing required new or improved controls, our business and results of operations could be harmed, the results of operations we report could be subject to adjustments, we could fail to be able to provide reasonable assurance as to our financial results or the effectiveness of our internal controls or meet our reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on our stock price. The tax treatment of the restructuring of our Puerto Rico subsidiary may negatively impact our net earnings In July 2006, Symmetricom Puerto Rico, a wholly-owned subsidiary, moved its place of legal organization from Delaware to Bermuda in a transaction intended to be a tax-free restructuring. We submitted a ruling request to the Internal Revenue Service to confirm the tax-free treatment in February 2008. Ruling requests of this nature are considered routine and management believes that it is probable that the ruling will be granted. If the ruling is granted, Symmetricom Puerto Rico would be treated as a branch of Symmetricom, Inc. effective as of July 2006 and, accordingly, the profits of Symmetricom Puerto Rico would be currently taxable for federal income tax purposes. If granted, the ruling would result in no changes to our tax provision as reported in our fiscal years 2007 and 2008 annual reports. If the ruling is not granted, then: •we would be required to take a one-time, non-cash charge to our deferred tax assets of approximately $15.2 million related to the July 2006 restructuring transaction with respect to our fiscal year 2007; •Symmetricom Puerto Rico would continue its election to indefinitely reinvest its future earnings outside of the United States and not repatriate future earnings back to Symmetricom, Inc.; •Our fiscal year 2007 tax provision would be reduced by $3.0 million while our deferred tax assets would increase by approximately the same amount; and 17 •Our fiscal year 2008 tax provision would be reduced by $1.5 million while our deferred tax assets would increase by approximately the same amount. The above three items would be reported in the fiscal year and quarter in which the request for IRS confirmation of tax-free treatment of the July 2006 restructuring was denied. The net result of such a denial would be an increased tax provision of approximately $10.7 million while our deferred tax assets would decrease by approximately the same amount. Prior to fiscal 2007, Symmetricom Puerto Rico had elected to report its U.S. taxes under Section 936 of the United State Internal Revenue Code. This election exempted qualified Puerto Rico earnings from regular federal income taxes, subject to various limitations. Section 936 expired at the end of fiscal 2006. If we incur net losses or substantially lower profit in the future, we may have to record a valuation allowance against some of our deferred tax assets, which would significantly increase our tax expense and harm our net earnings Future losses may create uncertainty about the realizability of our $49.0 million net deferred tax assets. If we record a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, we would record an additional tax expense, which would reduce net earnings. In addition, uncertainties about the realizability of our deferred tax assets could limit our ability to recognize future deferred tax assets on our balance sheet and correspondingly reduce net earnings. At the end of each fiscal quarter, our management reviews the results of operations for that quarter and forecasts for the remainder of the fiscal year and future years to determine if it is more likely than not that a valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets is needed. If we are unable to smoothly integrate the businesses we acquire, our operations and financial results could be harmed As part of our business strategy we have engaged in acquisitions in the past, including the acquisitions of TrueTime, Datum, QoSmetrics, S.A. and TSC, and other smaller acquisitions, and continue to evaluate other acquisition opportunities that could provide additional product or service offerings, technologies or additional industry expertise. Acquisitions involve risks, which include the following: •we may be exposed to unknown liabilities of the acquired business; •we may incur significant write-offs; •we may experience problems in combining the acquired operations, technologies or products; •we may not realize the revenue and profits that we expect the acquired businesses to generate; •we may not achieve the cost savings we hope to obtain from combining the acquired operations with ours; •we may experience regulatory difficulties and unbudgeted expenses in attempting to complete an acquisition; •we may encounter unanticipated acquisition or integration costs that could cause our quarterly or annual operating results to fluctuate; •we may incur substantial penalties if we do not relocate manufacturing operations as scheduled; •our management's attention may be diverted from our core business; •our existing business relationships with suppliers and customers may be impaired; 18 •we may not be successful in entering new markets in which we have no or limited experience; •key employees of the acquired businesses may have expertise and know-how, and we may not be able to retain some of these key employees, and some of them may join or start competing businesses; •our earnings per share may be diluted if we pay for an acquisition with equity securities; and •we may not be able to repay our debt used to make acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate any business, products, technologies or personnel from any recent or future acquisitions. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions or to achieve any anticipated benefits of an acquisition, our operations and business could be harmed. Additionally, we may experience difficulty integrating and managing the acquired business operations. For these reasons, we cannot be certain what effect acquisitions may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Existing common stockholders may experience dilution in connection with our sale of convertible notes in June 2005 and will experience immediate dilution if we sell shares of our common stock or other equity securities in future financings, and, as a result, our stock price may go down Our common stockholders may experience dilution in connection with the sale in June 2005 of $120 million worth of convertible notes (of which $63.1 million was repurchased in July 2008, leaving a current balance of $56.9 million) if our stock price reaches $12.49 or more per share. For example, to the extent the share price exceeds $12.49, the difference would be multiplied by 4.6 million shares and then divided by the share price to determine the number of shares due to noteholders. For instance, if the stock price was $15.00, the conversion value would be $2.51 ($15.00 less $12.49) multiplied by 4.6 million shares or $11.5 million which would be divided by the share price of $15.00 to provide 0.8 million additional shares to noteholders. These 0.8 million shares, when added to our number of shares outstanding, would dilute our earnings per share. In addition, as opportunities present themselves, we may enter into financing or similar arrangements in the future, including the issuance of debt securities, preferred stock or common stock. If we issue common stock or securities convertible into common stock, our common stockholders will experience dilution. We may perform increasing amounts of research and development and manufacturing offshore to lower cost; these efforts may impact our ability to deliver products to our customers, complete research and development projects on a timely basis, and cause potential misappropriation of our intellectual property As a U.S. government contractor, we are subject to a number of rules and regulations We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. Government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of our contracts or debarment from bidding on contracts. In order to administer certain U.S. government contracts we are required to have employees with Top Secret Security Clearance. Because we have a limited number of employees with such clearance, the loss of these employees could adversely affect our ability to administer these contracts. We must also have auditors from our independent registered public accounting firm with proper security clearance levels to perform an annual audit of revenue for these transactions. 19 We have direct or indirect sales pursuant to contracts with U.S. government agencies, which can be terminated at the convenience of the government, and our revenue would decline if the government terminated these contracts Approximately 15% to 20% of our net revenue has been generated from sales to U.S. government agencies either directly or indirectly through subcontracts. Government-related contracts and subcontracts are subject to standard provisions for termination at the convenience of the government. In such event, however, we are generally entitled to reimbursement of costs incurred on the basis of work completed plus other amounts specified in each individual contract. These contracts and subcontracts are either fixed-price or cost reimbursable contracts. Fixed-price contracts provide fixed compensation for specified work. Under cost reimbursable contracts, we agree to perform specified work in return for reimbursement of costs (to the extent allowable under government regulations) and a specified fee. In general, while the risk of loss is greater under fixed-price contracts than under cost reimbursable contracts, the potential for profit under fixed-price contracts is greater than under cost reimbursable contracts. In addition, delays in approvals of the annual defense budget or supplemental funding bills may also impact government sales. We have relied and may continue to rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our net revenue, and our revenue could decline due to lower orders, the delay of customer orders or cancellation of existing orders During fiscal 2008, two customers each accounted for more than 10% of our revenue. We expect that we will continue to depend on a relatively small number of customers for a substantial portion of our net revenue for the foreseeable future. The timing and level of sales to our largest customers have fluctuated significantly in the past and are expected to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. The loss of one or more of our significant customers, or a significant reduction or delay in sales to any customer, may harm our business and operating results. For instance, our Wireline revenue in 2006 decreased by $2.5 million in part because one large customer ordered less product in fiscal 2006 than 2005 as it completed a major project. Major customers also have significant leverage and may attempt to change the terms, including pricing, upon which we do business, which could also harm our business and operating results. If we are unable to develop new products, or we are delayed in production startup, our sales could decline The markets for our products are characterized by: •rapidly changing technology; •evolving industry standards; and •changes in end-user requirements. Technological advancements could render our products obsolete and unmarketable. Our success will depend on our ability to respond to changing technologies and customer requirements, and our ability to develop and introduce new and enhanced products in a cost-effective and timely manner. The development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We may experience design, manufacturing, marketing, and other difficulties that could delay or prevent the development, introduction or marketing of our new products and enhancements. The introduction of new or enhanced products also requires that we manage a smooth transition from older products to new products. Delays in new product development or delays in production startup could reduce our sales. 20 The telecommunications and government markets are highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete successfully in our markets, our revenue could decline Competition in the telecommunications industry, in general, and in the markets we serve, is intense and likely to increase substantially. We face competition in all of our markets. Competitors of our synchronization products include Brilliant Telecommunications, Emrise Corp., Frequency Electronics, Inc., Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., and Oscilloquartz SA. Competitors of our Wireless/OEM products include Frequency Electronics, Inc. and Trimble Navigation, Ltd. Competitors of our timing, test and measurement products include Brandywine Communications, EndRun Technologies, Frequency Electronics, Inc., Meinberg, Temex and Trak Systems, Inc. (a Veritas Corporation subsidiary). Competitors of our Quality of Experience Assurance products include Brix, Ineoquest, JDS Uniphase, Agilent Technologies, Tektronix and Telchemy. In addition, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 permits ILECs to manufacture telecommunications equipment, which may result in increased competition. Our ability to compete successfully in the future will depend on many factors including: •the cost-effectiveness, quality, price, service and market acceptance of our products; •our response to the entry of new competitors into our markets or the introduction of new products by our competitors; •the average selling prices for our products; •increased industry consolidation among our customers, which may lead to decreased demand for, and downward pricing pressure on the prices of, our products; •our ability to keep pace with changing technology and customer requirements; •our continued improvement of existing products; •the timely development or acquisition of new or enhanced products; •the timing of new product introductions by our competitors or us; and •changes in worldwide market and economic conditions. Some of our competitors or potential competitors are well established and have significant financial, manufacturing, technical and marketing resources. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new and emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products, or to deliver competitive products at lower prices. We expect to continue to experience pricing pressures from our competitors in all of our markets. If we are unable to compete by delivering new products or by delivering competitive products at lower prices, we could lose market share and our revenue could decline. We purchase certain key components from single or limited sources and could lose sales if these sources fail to fulfill our needs We have limited suppliers for a number of our components. If single source components were to become unavailable on satisfactory terms, we would be required to purchase comparable components from other sources. If for any reason we could not obtain comparable replacement components from other sources in a timely manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, some of our suppliers require long lead times to deliver requested quantities of components. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of components, we could experience delays or reductions in product shipments, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to rapid changes in technology, on occasion, one or more of the components used in our products could become unavailable, resulting in unanticipated redesign and related delays in shipments. 21 We cannot assure you that similar delays will not occur in the future. Our suppliers of components may be impacted by compliance with environmental regulations, including Restriction on the use of Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment, known as the RoHS Directive, and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, known as the WEEE Directive, which could affect our continued supply of components or cause additional costs for us to implement new components into our manufacturing process. Our products are complex and may contain errors or design flaws, which could be costly to correct Our products are complex and often use state-of-the-art components, processes and techniques. When we release new products, or new versions of existing products, they may contain undetected or unresolved errors or defects. Despite testing, errors or defects may be found in new products or upgrades after the commencement of commercial shipments. Undetected errors and design flaws have occurred in the past and could occur in the future. These errors could result in delays, loss of market acceptance and sales, diversion of development resources, damage to our reputation, legal action by our customers, failure to attract new customers, and increased service and warranty costs. The occurrence of any of these factors could cause our net revenue to decline. Our critical business and manufacturing facilities in Puerto Rico; Beverly, Massachusetts; San Jose, California; Santa Rosa, California; Tuscaloosa, Alabama, and Boulder, Colorado, as well as many of our customers and suppliers, are located near known hurricane zones, earthquake fault zones, and flood plains, and the occurrence of these events or other catastrophic disasters could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us, as well as our customers and suppliers to cease, curtail or disrupt operations Capacity constraints, systems failures or security breaches could prevent access to our computer systems, which could interrupt our business and harm our daily operations Our business goals of performance, reliability and availability require that we have adequate capacity in our computer systems to support our operations. As our operations grow in size and scope, we will need to improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to offer internal personnel enhanced services, capacity, features and functionality. Our ability to provide high-quality service depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. Our computer system has experienced system interruptions from time to time and could experience periodic system interruptions in the future. Our systems and operations are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, design defects, vandalism, denial-of-service attacks and similar events. Even though we have a formal disaster recovery plan, it may not completely prevent any system failure or security breach that causes an interruption in our business and daily operations. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, our competitive position could be weakened and our revenues may decline We believe our success will depend in a large part on our ability to protect trade secrets, obtain or license patents, and operate without infringing on the rights of others. We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright and patent registration, contractual restrictions and internal security to establish and protect our proprietary rights. These measures may not provide sufficient protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information. We have United States and international patents and patent applications pending that cover certain technology used by our operations. However, while we believe that our patents have value, we rely primarily on innovation, technological expertise and marketing competence to maintain our competitive position. While we intend to continue our efforts to obtain patents whenever possible, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued, or that new, or 22 existing patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights granted will provide us with any commercial benefit. Third parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims, which would be costly to defend and may result in our loss of significant rights The telecommunications industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. We are subject to the risk of adverse claims and litigation alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. From time to time we have received claims asserting that we have infringed the proprietary rights of others. We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future, or that any such claims will not result in costly litigation or require us to obtain a license for such intellectual property rights regardless of the merit of such claims. No assurance can be given that any necessary licenses will be available or that, if available, such licenses can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. In the event any necessary licenses are not available, we may not be able to sell or distribute our products, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to environmental regulations that could result in costly environmental liability Our operations are subject to numerous international, federal, state and local environmental regulations related to the storage, use, labeling, discharge, disposal and human exposure to toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process. While we have not experienced any significant effects on our operations from environmental regulations, changes in these regulations may require additional capital expenditures or restrict our ability to expand our operations. Failure to comply with such regulations could result in suspension or cessation of our operations or could subject us to significant liabilities. We could also be subject to fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. Liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. Although, we periodically review our facilities and internal operations for compliance with applicable environmental regulations, these reviews are necessarily limited in scope and frequency and may not reveal all potential instances of noncompliance, possible injury or possible contamination. There can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of the inability to obtain permits, human error, equipment failure or other causes. The liabilities arising from any noncompliance with environmental regulations, or liability resulting from accidental contamination or injury from toxic or hazardous chemicals could result in liability that exceeds our resources. The risk of liabilities increases as we acquire other companies, such as Datum, which use, or have used, hazardous substances at various current or former facilities. A manufacturing facility previously operated by Datum in Austin, Texas is undergoing remediation for known subsurface contamination at that facility and adjoining properties. We believe that we will incur monitoring costs for years to come in connection with this subsurface contamination. Further, we have received a demand from adjoining landowner and may be subject to claims from other adjoining landowners, in addition to claims for remediation, and the amount of these costs and the extent of our exposure to these demands and claims cannot be determined at this time. The determination of the existence and cost of any additional contamination could involve costly and time-consuming negotiations and litigation. Remediation activities and subsurface contamination may require us to incur additional unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the property. The remediation efforts, the property owner's claims and any related governmental action may expose us to material liability and could significantly harm our business. 23 Our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of our required compliance with the adopted European Union Directives on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment and the Restriction of the Use of Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment, as well as other standards around the world In January 2003, the European Union enacted Directive 2002/96/EC on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, known as the WEEE Directive. The WEEE Directive requires producers of certain electrical and electronic equipment to be financially responsible for the future disposal costs of this equipment. Some of our products fall within the scope of this Directive, and, as such, we will incur some financial responsibility for the collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of both new product sold, and product already sold prior to the WEEE Directive's enforcement date, to customers within the European Union. At the same time, the European Union also enacted Directive 2002/95/EC on the Restriction of the use of Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment, known as the RoHS Directive. This Directive restricts the use of certain hazardous substances, including mercury, lead, cadmium, hexavalent chromium and certain flame retardants, used in the construction of component parts of electrical and electronic equipment. We may need to change our manufacturing processes, redesign or reformulate some of our products, and change some components to eliminate these hazardous substances in our products, in order to be able to continue to offer them for sale within the European Union. Individual European Union member states are required to transpose the Directives into national legislation. Although not all European Union member states have enacted legislation to implement these two Directives, we continue to review the applicability and impact of both Directives on the sale of our products within the European Union. If we fail to comply with these laws, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. We may incur increased manufacturing costs, and some products may be subject to production delays to comply with future legislation which implements these Directives, but we cannot currently estimate the extent of such increased costs or production delays, if any. However, to the extent that any such cost increases or delays are substantial, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Also, we are aware that lead times for new, compliant components are longer and that older, non-compliant components are being discontinued at a fast pace. In addition, we are aware of similar legislation that may be enacted in other countries, such as Japan and China, and possible new federal and state legislation in the United States, the cumulative impact of which could significantly increase our operating costs and adversely affect our operating results. We are subject to other significant domestic and foreign regulations relating to health and safety, packaging, product content and labor regulations Our business is subject to various other significant international, federal, state and local, health and safety, packaging, product content and labor regulations. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have become more stringent over time. We may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or to remedy past violations of these regulations. Any failure by us to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in cessation of our operations or portions of our operations, product recalls or impositions of fines and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations. In addition, because many of our products are regulated or sold into regulated industries, we must comply with additional regulations in marketing our products. Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, like the International Standards Organization, as well as regulation of other agencies such as the United States Federal Communications Commission. If we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our business may suffer. 24 Our customers may be subject to governmental regulations, which, if changed, could negatively impact our business results Federal and state regulatory agencies, including the United States Federal Communications Commission and the various state public utility commissions and public service commissions, regulate most of our domestic telecommunications customers. Similar government oversight also exists in the international market. While we are not directly affected by this legislation, such regulation of our customers may negatively impact our business. For instance, the sale of our products may be affected by the imposition upon certain of our customers of common carrier tariffs and the taxation of telecommunications services. These regulations are continuously reviewed and changed by the various governmental agencies. Changes in current or future laws or regulations, in the United States or elsewhere, could negatively impact our business results. Sales of a significant portion of our products to customers outside of the United States subjects us to business, economic and political risks Our export sales to Europe, Latin America, Asia, and Canada continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue. We anticipate that sales to customers located outside of the United States will continue to be a significant part of our net revenue for the foreseeable future. Because significant portions of our sales are to customers outside of the United States we are subject to risks, including: •foreign currency fluctuations; •the effects of terrorist activity and armed conflict, which may disrupt general economic activity and result in revenue shortfalls; •export restrictions; •a global pandemic if it does not continue to be contained; •longer payment cycles; •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or tariffs; •protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competition; •dependence on local vendors; • reduced or limited protection of intellectual property rights; and •political and economic instability. To date, very few of our international revenue and cost obligations have been denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, an increase in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products more expensive, and thus, less competitive in foreign markets. A portion of our international revenues may be denominated in foreign currencies in the future, including the Euro, which will subject us to risks associated with fluctuations in these foreign currencies. We do not currently engage in foreign currency hedging activities or derivative arrangements, but may do so in the future to the extent that such obligations become more significant. If we have significant inventories that become obsolete or cannot be sold at acceptable prices, our results may be negatively impacted Although we believe that we currently have made adequate adjustments for inventory that has declined in value, become obsolete, or is in excess of anticipated demand, there can be no assurance that such adjustments will be adequate. If significant inventories of our products become obsolete, or are otherwise not able to be sold at favorable prices, our results of operations could be materially affected. 25 We may be subject to additional taxes from tax reviews by foreign authorities Although we believe that we have made adequate reserves for foreign tax provisions, there can be no assurance that such reserves will be adequate until the foreign authorities have reviewed the foreign tax filings. Our sales and our cost may be affected by the ongoing movement towards environmentally friendly manufacturing ("green" manufacturing) Various countries in the international marketplace are moving towards more environmentally friendly manufacturing requirements and carbon emission standards, and some companies or countries may require us to meet new standards, which could affect the sales of our products. These standards may impact the materials used and our manufacturing process. Changes to our materials and manufacturing process could cause delays in product availability and may increase our manufacturing costs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 