ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information provided in this Report, the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating the results of our operations, future prospects and an investment in shares of our common stock ("Common Stock"). Any of these factors could cause our actual financial results to differ materially from our historical results, and could give rise to events that might have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business The markets in which we compete are highly competitive and some of our competitors may have superior resources. Responding to this competition could reduce our sales and operating margins. We sell most of our products in highly fragmented and competitive markets. We believe that the principle elements of competition in these markets are: •ability to meet customer specifications and quantities;•application expertise and engineering capabilities;•product quality and brand name;•timeliness of delivery;•price;•quality of aftermarket sales and support;•materials development capabilities; and•applied research and development capabilities.In each of our major product lines, we compete with a substantial number of foreign and domestic companies, some of which have greater resources (financial or otherwise) or lower operating costs than we have. Competitors’ actions, such as price reductions or introduction of new innovative products, may have a material adverse impact on our net sales and profitability. In addition, the rapid technological changes occurring in the design and engineering industry could lead to the entry of new competitors. We cannot provide assurance that we will continue to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors. Some of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. These larger competitors may be in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by customers in our markets. They often have broader product lines and market focus and may not be as susceptible to downturns in a single market. These competitors may also be able to bundle their products together to meet the needs of a particular customer and may be capable of delivering more complete solutions than we are able to provide. To the extent large enterprises that currently do not compete directly with us choose to enter our markets by acquisition or otherwise, competition would likely intensify. Further, some of our competitors that have greater financial resources have offered, and in the future may offer, their products at lower prices than we offer for our competing products or on more attractive financing or payment terms, which may cause us to lose sales opportunities and the resulting revenue or to reduce our prices in response to that competition. Reductions in prices for any of our products could have a material adverse effect on our operating margins and revenue. In addition, many of our competitors have been in operation longer than we have and, therefore, have more long-standing and established relationships with domestic and foreign customers, making it difficult for us to sell to those customers. If any of our competitors’ products or technologies were to become the industry standard, our business would be seriously harmed. If our competitors are successful in bringing their products to market earlier than us, or if these products are more technologically capable than ours, our revenue could be materially and adversely affected. Our competitors may decide to expand their presence in this market through mergers and acquisitions. The consolidation of our competitors could have a significant negative impact on our business. Further, our competitors may bundle their products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products or which may require us to lower our selling prices, resulting in lower revenue and decreased gross margins. 9If we are unable to compete at the same level as we have in the past, in any of our markets, or are forced to reduce the prices of our products in order to continue to be competitive, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows would be materially and adversely affected. In order to maintain and enhance our competitive position, we intend to continue our investment in technology, marketing, customer service and support, and distribution networks. We may not have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments, and we may not be able to maintain our competitive position. Our competitors may develop products that are superior to our products, develop methods of more efficiently and effectively providing products and services, or adapt more quickly than us to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. We may not be able to compete successfully with our competitors. If we fail to compete successfully, the failure may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our Company faces customer pricing pressures. Our customers are under pressure to reduce pricing on their products. Consequently, as a supplier to these end markets, our Company and our subsidiaries face these pricing pressures. Such pricing reductions could put pressure on our gross margins, negatively impacting the overall profitability of our businesses. Further, we face pricing pressure from increasing global competition, primarily from Asia and other low cost areas. Our sales could be negatively impacted by decisions by major customers to move production of devices offshore. Similarly, our flange and fittings business also faces a similar risk of the displacement of domestically produced flanges with flanges from low cost countries. Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate and to adapt to technological changes and develop, implement and market product innovations. Many of our markets are characterized by fast-moving advances in design and engineering that require ongoing improvements in our production capabilities and the competitive quality of our products. The supply chains in which we operate are subject to technological change and changes in customer requirements. We cannot provide any assurance that we will successfully develop new or modified types of products or technologies that may be required by our customers in the future. Should we not be able to maintain or enhance the competitive values of our products or develop and introduce new products or technologies successfully, or if new products or technologies fail to generate sufficient revenues to offset research and development costs, our businesses, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be successful in those efforts if, among other things, our products: •are not cost effective; •are not brought to market in a timely manner; •are not in accordance with evolving industry standards; •fail to achieve market acceptance or meet customer requirements; and•are in advance of the needs of their markets. We may not fully realize anticipated benefits from past or future acquisitions or equity investments and future acquisitions may expose us to significant unanticipated liabilities that could adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations.We anticipate that a portion of any future growth of our business might be accomplished by acquiring existing businesses, products or technologies. The success of any acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to integrate acquired personnel, operations, products and technologies into our organization effectively, to retain and motivate key personnel of acquired businesses and to retain their customers. In addition, we might not be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or obtain any necessary financing on acceptable terms. We might also spend time and money investigating and negotiating with a potential acquisition or investment target, but not complete the transaction. Our acquisitions could create unforeseen risks and liabilities that may adversely impact our results and operations. These liabilities could include employment, retirement or severance-related obligations under applicable law or other benefits arrangements, legal claims, warranty or similar liabilities to customers and claims made by vendors. Future acquisitions could also expose us to tax liabilities and other amounts owed by the acquired companies. The incurrence of such unforeseen or unanticipated liabilities, should they be significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.10Although we expect to realize strategic, operational and financial benefits as a result of our past or future acquisitions and equity investments, we cannot predict whether, and to what extent, such benefits will be achieved. There are significant challenges to integrating an acquired operation into our business, including, but not limited to: •successfully managing the operations, manufacturing facilities and technology;•integrating the sales organizations and maintaining and increasing the customer base;•retaining key employees, suppliers and distributors;•integrating management information, inventory, accounting and research and development activities; and•addressing operating losses related to individual facilities or product lines.Any future acquisition could involve other risks, including the assumption of additional liabilities and expenses, issuances of debt, transaction costs and diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, and such acquisition may be dilutive to our financial results. A material disruption at any of our manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our ability to generate sales and meet customer demand. In case of a disruption of our operations at our manufacturing facilities due to significant equipment failures, natural disasters, power outages, fires, explosions, terrorism, adverse weather conditions, labor disputes or other reasons, our financial performance could be adversely affected as a result of our inability to meet customer demand for our products. Interruptions in production could increase our cost of sales. Any interruption in production capability could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to remedy the situation, which could negatively affect our profitability and financial condition. We maintain property damage insurance which we believe to be adequate to provide for reconstruction of facilities and equipment, as well as business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from any production interruption or shutdown caused by an insured loss. However, any recovery under our insurance policies may not offset the lost sales or increased costs that may be experienced during the disruption of operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A sustained economic downturn would adversely impact our Company. Demand for our products and components could be adversely impacted by deterioration in general economic conditions. Furthermore, a recession could result in reduced product demand, which would negatively impact revenues. In addition, a significant slowdown in the global economy could reduce overall demand for these products. However, the diversified customer base and product applications of our companies may help mitigate the effects of economic fluctuations. Many of our customers and suppliers are reliant on liquidity from global credit markets and, in some cases, require external financing to purchase products or finance operations. Lack of liquidity or inability to access the credit markets by our customers could adversely affect our ability to collect the outstanding amounts. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Product liability lawsuits could harm our business. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims. Although we maintain production quality controls and procedures, we cannot assure that the products sold will be free from defects. In addition, when manufacturing our products, we also use components manufactured by third parties, which may also have defects. We maintain insurance coverage for product liability claims. The insurance policies have limits, however, and may not be sufficient to cover claims made. In addition, this insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost. With respect to components manufactured by third-party suppliers, the contractual indemnification that we may seek from our third-party suppliers may be limited and thus insufficient to cover claims made against us. If insurance coverage or contractual indemnification is insufficient to satisfy product liability claims made against us, the claims could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Even claims without merit could harm our reputation, reduce demand for our products, cause us to incur substantial legal costs and distract the attention of our management. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on a small number of customers for a large percentage of our revenues. 11We rely on certain key customers for the majority of our product sales, thus exposing our businesses to potential customer concentration risk. As of the date of this Report, our four largest customers comprise 40.0% of our sales. The decision by these key customers to cease adoption of our products, to switch suppliers or to dramatically reduce product order volumes, could negatively impact our sales, impacting our operating results and overall profitability. Over the last few years, we have been focused on mitigating this risk. Our senior management has made concerted efforts to broaden our customer base within our existing product markets as well as to diversify into other market segments. Our customer base may remain concentrated and may subject us to risk of loss of key customers. Our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety regulations. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state, local and European Union laws and regulations, governing environmental protection, health and safety, including the discharge of materials into the environment. These laws and regulations may, among other things:•require the acquisition of various permits before operations commence or to continue ongoing operations;•restrict the types, quantities and concentrations of various substances that may be employed in manufacturing operations;•restrict the types, quantities and concentrations of various substances that may be released into the environment or otherwise disposed of; and•require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to remove contamination from real property, whether or not caused by past or ongoing operations.The regulatory burden increases the cost of doing business and affects profitability. Additionally, the U.S. Congress and federal and state agencies as well as the European Union regulatory authorities frequently revise environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and any changes that result in more stringent and costly health and safety, pollution control, waste handling, disposal, cleanup and remediation requirements could have a significant negative impact on our operating costs. Some of the existing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject include, among others: (i) regulations by the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and various state agencies regarding approved methods of disposal for certain hazardous and nonhazardous wastes; (ii) the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) and analogous state laws that may require the removal of previously disposed wastes (including wastes disposed of or released by prior owners or operators of real estate), the cleanup of property contamination (including groundwater contamination) and remedial plugging operations to prevent future contamination; (iii) the Clean Air Act and comparable state and local requirements, which establish pollution control requirements with respect to air emissions from our operations; (iv) the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, which contains numerous requirements relating to the prevention of, and response to, oil spills into waters of the United States; (v) the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, or the Clean Water Act, and analogous state laws which impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including heavy metals and other substances generated by our operations, into waters of the United States, state waters or publicly owned treatment works; (vi) the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, which is the principal federal statute governing the treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, and comparable state statutes; (vii) the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act and comparable state statutes, which require worker protection from raw materials, products and wastes; and (viii) the federal Toxic Substances Control Act and comparable state and local statutes and regulations requiring that we organize and/or disclose information about hazardous materials stored, used or produced in our operations.Certain of our subsidiaries utilize a hydrogen gas atmosphere in the sintering process. We have a large liquid hydrogen storage tank on one site. The gas supplier, who is the owner of the hydrogen storage tank, is responsible for its maintenance. The gas is explosive and flammable if exposed to oxygen. Our processes are designed to preclude exposure to oxygen in the sintering furnaces by first eliminating any remaining ambient atmosphere by flooding the furnace with inert argon gas prior to introduction of 12hydrogen. Our equipment has redundant control and alarm systems to detect hydrogen leaks and shut down all gas flows should a leak or equipment malfunction be detected.Our Company has incurred in the past, and expects to incur in the future, capital and other expenditures related to environmental compliance. Although we believe our continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, there is no assurance that the passage of more stringent laws or regulations in the future will not have a negative impact on our financial position or results of operations. As an owner or operator of real property, or generator of waste, we could become subject to liability for environmental contamination, regardless of whether we caused such contamination. Under various federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances, and, in some instances, international laws, relating to the protection of the environment, a current or former owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate contamination on, under, or released from such property and for any damage to natural resources resulting from such contamination. Similarly, a generator of waste can be held responsible for contamination resulting from the treatment or disposal of such waste at any off-site location (such as a landfill), regardless of whether the generator arranged for the treatment or disposal of the waste in compliance with applicable laws. Costs associated with liability for removal or remediation of contamination or damage to natural resources could be substantial and liability under these laws may attach without regard to whether the responsible party knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the contaminants. In addition, the liability may be joint and several. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination at our properties, or properties for which we are deemed responsible, may expose us to liability for property damage or personal injury, or materially adversely affect our ability to sell our real property interests or to borrow using the real property as collateral. We cannot be sure that we will not be subject to environmental liabilities in the future as a result of historic or current operations that have resulted or will result in contamination. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure to maintain and protect our trademarks, trade names and technology may affect our operations and financial performance. The market for many of our products is, in part, dependent upon the goodwill engendered by trademarks and trade names. The failure to protect our trademarks and trade names may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation may be required to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. Any action we take to protect our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention. As a result of any such litigation, we could lose any proprietary rights we have. In addition, it is possible that others will independently develop technology that will compete with our technology. The development of new technologies by competitors that may compete with our technologies could reduce demand for our products and affect our financial performance. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.If contract manufacturers that we rely on encounter production, quality, financial or other difficulties, we may experience difficulty in meeting customer demands. We rely on unaffiliated contract manufacturers, both domestically and internationally, to produce certain of our products or key components of our products. If we are unable to arrange for sufficient production capacity among our contract manufacturers or if our contract manufacturers encounter production, quality, financial or other difficulties, including labor disturbances or geopolitical risks, or if alternative suppliers cannot be identified, we may encounter difficulty in meeting customer demands. Any such difficulties could have an adverse effect on our business, financial results and results of operations, which could be material. If we do not have sufficient production capacity, either through our internal facilities and/or through independent contract manufacturers, to meet customer demand for our products, we may experience lost sales opportunities and customer relations problems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends on effective information management systems. We rely on our enterprise resource planning systems to support such critical business operations as processing sales orders and invoicing, inventory control, purchasing and supply chain management, human resources and financial reporting. If we are unable to successfully implement major systems initiatives and maintain critical information systems, we could encounter difficulties that could have a material adverse impact on our business, internal controls over financial reporting, or our ability to timely and accurately report our financial results. 13Cyber-security incidents, including data security breaches or computer viruses, could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services, damaging our reputation or exposing us to liability. We receive, process, store and transmit, often electronically, the confidential data of our customers and others. Unauthorized access to our computer systems or stored data could result in the theft or improper disclosure of confidential information, the deletion or modification of records or could cause interruptions in our operations. These cyber-security risks increase when we transmit information from one location to another, including transmissions over the Internet or other electronic networks. Despite implemented security measures, our facilities, systems and procedures, and those of our third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, software viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events which may disrupt our delivery of services or expose the confidential information of our customers and others. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential information of our customers or others, whether by us or a third party, could (i) subject us to civil and criminal penalties, (ii) have a negative impact on our reputation or (iii) expose us to liability to our customers, third parties or government authorities. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our products, including material purchased from our suppliers, experience quality or performance issues, our business may suffer. Our business depends on consistently delivering high-quality products. To this end, we and our customers periodically test our products for quality. Nevertheless, many of our products are highly complex and our testing procedures are limited to evaluating likely and foreseeable failure scenarios. Our tests may fail to detect possible failures and our products may fail to perform as expected. Performance issues could result from faulty design or problems in manufacturing. We have experienced such performance failures in the past and remain exposed to performance failures in the future. In some cases, recall of some or all affected products, product redesigns or additional capital expenditures may be required to correct a defect. In addition, we generally offer warranties on most products, the terms and conditions of which depend upon the product subject to the warranty. In some cases, we indemnify our customers against damages or losses that might arise from certain claims relating to our products. Future claims may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any significant or systemic product failure could also result in lost future sales of the affected product and other products, as well as reputational damage. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. Certain of our products are subject to export controls and may be exported only with the required export license or through an export license exception. If we were to fail to comply with export licensing, customs regulations, economic sanctions and other laws, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines for us and incarceration for responsible employees and managers, and the possible loss of export or import privileges. In addition, if our distributors fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or permits, we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm and penalties. Obtaining the necessary export license for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Furthermore, export control laws and economic sanctions prohibit the shipment of certain products to embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments and persons. While we train our employees to comply with these regulations, a violation may nonetheless occur, whether knowingly or inadvertently. Any such shipment could have negative consequences including government investigations, penalties, fines, civil and criminal sanctions, and reputational harm. Any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Difficulties may be encountered in the realignment of manufacturing capacity and capabilities among our global manufacturing facilities that could adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands for our products. We may realign manufacturing capacity among our global facilities in order to reduce costs by improving manufacturing efficiency and to strengthen our long-term competitive position. The implementation of these initiatives may include significant shifts of production capacity among facilities. There are significant risks inherent in the implementation of these initiatives, including, but not limited to, failing to ensure that: there is adequate inventory on hand or production capacity to meet customer demand while capacity is being shifted among facilities; there is no decrease in product quality as a result of shifting capacity; adequate raw material and other service providers 14are available to meet the needs at the new production locations; equipment can be successfully removed, transported and re-installed; and adequate supervisory, production and support personnel are available to accommodate the shifted production. In the event that manufacturing realignment initiatives are not successfully implemented, we could experience lost future sales and increased operating costs as well as customer relations problems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience significant variability in our quarterly or annual effective income tax rate. We have a large and complex tax profile in various jurisdictions. Variability in the mix and profitability of domestic and international activities, repatriation of earnings from our foreign affiliate, changes in tax laws, identification and resolution of various tax uncertainties and the inability to use net operating losses and other carry forwards included in deferred tax assets, among other matters, may significantly impact our effective income tax rate in the future. A significant increase in our quarterly or annual effective income tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. There may be certain liabilities associated with our real estate. Certain of our subsidiaries own real property at our Colorado facilities. However, our Colorado subsidiaries do not own the mineral rights related to this property. In the past, the property has been used for coal, oil and natural gas extraction. Oil and natural gas extraction is ongoing. As the owner of the real estate, our Colorado subsidiaries and our Company could be strictly liable, jointly and severally, under CERCLA with the mineral rights owner and production well operators for any government mandated remediation of pollution related to the oil and gas production that could have a material adverse effect on our business, notwithstanding that our Colorado subsidiaries did not cause or contribute to the contamination. Coal extraction ceased on the property in 1947, and the mining entities are no longer in business. Consequently, our Colorado subsidiaries and our Company could be strictly liable for government mandated remediation of acid mine seeps or other pollution related to coal mining. As such liabilities are not insured, the payment of such remediation costs could result in an adverse effect on our business or reduced asset value and a reduction in available funds for other corporate purposes. The Colorado Geological Survey has concluded that there may be a risk of ground subsidence due to the former mining operations on a small portion of our Colorado property. In the event of a subsidence event, certain property could be damaged or rendered unusable. In addition, our Colorado subsidiaries and our Company could be liable for possible collateral damage or harm, such as possible release of any hazardous waste into the environment. As such liabilities are not insured, the payment of any remediation costs could result in an adverse effect on our business or reduced asset value and reduction in funds available for other corporate purposes. Semi-volatile organic compounds and chlorinated solvents are present in the soil and groundwater at the facility of GF&F (although such contamination was caused off-site, and not by GF&F). GF&F has an indemnity from its landlord covering environmental liabilities pre-dating GF&F's use of the facility. GF&F does not believe that it has any liability related to the facility, however, in the event of a government-mandated remediation, GF&F and our Company could become jointly and severally strictly liable as an operator of the facility under CERCLA for the costs. As such liabilities are not insured, if for any reason the indemnity covering GF&F by its landlord is not enforceable, the non-indemnified and/or unreimbursed costs of remediation could result in an adverse effect on our business or reduced asset value and reduction in funds available for other corporate purposes.Political instability in international markets could have a negative effect on our Company. Significant amounts of raw material purchases by the Company are made from overseas suppliers. AFT-Hungary conducts its manufacturing in Hungary. Consequently, we may encounter risks associated with these countries and regions. Such risks include political instability, changes in legal regulations relating to trade, export and employment, as well as deterioration in underlying economic conditions. In particular, political instability in these areas could negatively affect our ability to secure uninterrupted supplies of materials. Not only factors internal to those countries but also external threats from unstable neighboring countries could adversely impact the ability of those suppliers to maintain normal supplies. Domestic policy changes in these countries could negatively impact pricing of components purchased from manufacturers in that country, which could have near-term negative impacts on margins. In addition, the AFT-Hungary business is susceptible to the political and legal climate in Hungary and Europe in general. Any instability in those areas could directly and adversely impact the business prospects of the AFT-Hungary business.Labor unrest could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.While none of our U.S. employees are represented by unions, substantially all of our international employees are members of unions or subject to workers’ councils or similar statutory arrangements. In addition, many of our direct and indirect customers 15and vendors have unionized work forces. Strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns experienced by these customers or vendors, contract manufacturers or their other suppliers could result in slowdowns. Organizations responsible for shipping our products may also be impacted by strikes. Any interruption in the delivery of our products could reduce demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on us. In general, we consider our labor relations with our employees to be in good standing. However, in the future, we may be subject to labor unrest. The inability to reach a new agreement could delay or disrupt our operations in the affected regions, including the acquisition of raw materials and components, the manufacture, sales and distribution of products and the provision of services. Occurrences of strikes, work stoppages or lock-outs at our facilities or at the facilities of our vendors or customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future research and development projects may not be successful. The successful development of our future products can be affected by many factors. Products that appear to be promising at their early phases of research and development may fail to be commercialized for various reasons, including possible failure to obtain any required regulatory approvals. There is no assurance that any of our future research and development projects will be successful or completed within the anticipated time frame or budget or that we will receive the necessary approvals from relevant authorities for the production of these newly developed products, or that these newly developed products will achieve commercial success. Even if such products can be successfully commercialized, they may not achieve the level of market acceptance that we expect. We have incurred and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of operating as a publicly traded company, and our management devotes substantial time to compliance initiatives. As a publicly traded company, we have incurred and will continue to incur additional legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not previously incur prior to becoming a publicly traded company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) and the rules of the SEC and The NASDAQ Capital Market, impose various requirements on public companies. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives as well as investor relations. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we have incurred additional costs to maintain such coverage. Furthermore, if we are not able to comply with certain requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, the market price of our Common Stock could decline and we could be subject to potential delisting by The NASDAQ Capital Market and review by such exchange, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities, which would require the expenditure by us of additional financial and management resources. As a result, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the market price of our Common Stock. If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls or fail to implement required new or improved controls, as such control standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to assert that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and there could be a material adverse effect on our stock price.Increases in the prices of raw materials would have an adverse effect on our profitability. Our profitability may be materially affected by changes in the market price and availability of certain raw materials, most of which are linked to the commodity markets. The principal raw materials we purchase may become very expensive. Prices for copper, steel, aluminum and certain other polymers, derived from oil and natural gas, have experienced significant volatility as a result of changes in the levels of global demand, supply disruptions and other factors. As a result, we have adjusted our prices for certain products and may have to adjust prices again in the future. Delays in implementing price increases or a failure to achieve market acceptance of price increases has in the past and could in the future have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Any significant increase in raw material prices could have a significant adverse effect on our businesses. In particular, metal powders, especially nickel and chrome, are subject to volatile pricing on world commodity markets. Significant increases in prices of metal powders may negatively impact our MIM companies’ profitability if those increases cannot be passed along to customers. Decisions made by major mining companies as to increasing or reducing capacities for mining and refinement of these metals could also significantly affect supplies. In addition, pricing and availability of steel in the world market has a large impact on pricing of these products and, thus, impacts our Flange and Fittings business. Our margins may be adversely subject to price increases by our suppliers that we may not be able to pass along to customers because of competitive decisions by our larger competitors. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain reasonably priced supply sources in the future.16We are dependent on a limited number of key suppliers for certain raw materials and components. For certain of our raw material and component purchases, including certain polymers, copper rod, copper and aluminum tapes, fine aluminum wire, steel wire, optical fiber, circuit boards and other components, we are dependent on key suppliers. While we rely upon long-term relationships, we generally do not enter into long-term contracts with our key suppliers. The timely procurement of necessary raw materials is critical to each of our operations. In addition, some raw materials are available only from certain suppliers. Consequently, poor supply capacity amid tight demand for these materials, as well as natural disasters or accidents, or other events that negatively impact our suppliers, could adversely affect their timely procurement. Our key suppliers have in the past and could in the future experience production, operational or financial difficulties, or there may be global shortages of the raw materials or components we use, and our inability to find sources of supply on reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture products in a cost-effective way. A significant uninsured loss or a loss in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We maintain insurance covering our normal business operations, including property and casualty protection that we believe is adequate. We do not generally carry insurance covering wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes or other similar catastrophic events. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage on financially reasonable terms in the future. A significant uninsured loss or a loss in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the financial health of our insurers may deteriorate which could result in non-payment of our claims. Seasonality may cause fluctuations in our revenue and operating results. Any factors negatively affecting us as a result of seasonality, including the variability of shipments under large contracts, customers’ seasonal orders and variations in product mix and in profitability of individual orders, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for the entire year. Our quarterly results of operations also may fluctuate based upon other factors, including general economic conditions, production life cycles, and product maturity. Significant movements in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial results.Our operating results and financial position could be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange markets. Significant fluctuations in the exchange rate may adversely impact the values of foreign currency-denominated product sales, materials costs and production costs in factories overseas. In addition, conversion of foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities, and the foreign currency-denominated financial statements of overseas subsidiaries into U.S. dollar for disclosure may also affect our companies’ assets and liabilities, as well as earnings and expenses. In particular, our AFT operations in Hungary could be subject to liabilities and obligations that must be paid in the Hungarian currency of forints. The value of the forint has been subject to substantial volatility against the U.S. dollar over the past several years. If the forint increases in value against the dollar, the costs of our prospective Hungarian operations may increase and adversely affect the anticipated results expected to be derived from the Hungarian business. In addition, increases and/or decreases in value of other currencies on which we have predicated our business model may also adversely affect our results of operations. We may experience problems moving funds out of the countries in which the funds were earned and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable in foreign countries where the usual accounts receivable payment cycle is longer. We may hedge certain currency transactions which might protect us against certain fluctuations in currency value, but such actions might also correspondingly increase our costs of doing business which could adversely affect our competiveness. There can be no assurance that our risk management strategies will be effective. We are dependent on the retention of key executives. Our success is dependent upon the retention of our current experienced executives. The loss of any of our key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business. 17Any impairment in the value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, could negatively affect our operating results and total capitalization. Our total assets reflect substantial intangible assets, primarily goodwill. The goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets we have acquired. If future operating performance at one or more of our business units were to fall significantly below current levels, if competing or alternative technologies emerge, or if market conditions for businesses acquired declines, we could incur, under current applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating earnings for impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill or unamortized intangible assets could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and total capitalization, the effect of which could be material.We are subject to the laws and regulations of the United States and many foreign countries. We are subject to a variety of laws regarding our international operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and regulations issued by U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the U.S. Bureau of Industry and Security and the regulations of various foreign governmental agencies. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international sales and manufacturing operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. Future regulations could limit the countries in which we manufacture or sell some of our products, and increase the cost of obtaining products from foreign sources. In addition, actual or alleged violations of these laws could result in enforcement actions and financial penalties that could result in substantial costs. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect us. As of June 30, 2014, we had approximately $77.2 million of indebtedness on a consolidated basis. We had an aggregate of approximately $76.9 million in outstanding borrowings under our Citizens Bank, N.A. (formerly known as RBS Citizens, N.A., and referred to herein as “Citizens Bank”) credit facility (the “Citizens Bank Credit Facility”). Our indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay the principal of, interest on, or other amounts due with respect to our indebtedness. Our Citizens Bank Credit Facility with Citizens Bank, as Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent, Sole Lead Arranger and Sole Bookrunner bears interest at floating rates related to LIBOR, Eurodollar Rates, Eurocurrency Rates, Federal Funds Rate and Prime Rates. As a result, our interest payment obligations on such indebtedness will increase if such interest rates increase. Our leverage could have negative consequences on our financial condition and results of operations, including: •impairing our ability to meet one or more of the financial ratios contained in our Citizens Bank Credit Facility or to generate cash sufficient to pay interest or principal, including periodic principal payments;•increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;•limiting our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing; •requiring the dedication of a portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures;•requiring us to sell debt or equity securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations;•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we compete; and•placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with less leveraged competitors and competitors that may have better access to capital resources.The credit agreements governing our Citizens Bank Credit Facility require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage and leverage ratios in certain situations and maintaining insurance coverage. These covenants may limit our flexibility in our operations, and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness even if we had satisfied our payment obligations. If we were to default on the credit agreements or other debt instruments, our financial condition would be adversely affected. 18Despite current indebtedness levels and restrictive covenants, we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness or we may pay dividends in the future. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial financial leverage. We and our subsidiaries may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future under the agreements governing our indebtedness. Although the credit agreements governing our Citizens Bank Credit Facility contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of thresholds, qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be material. Additionally, these restrictions also will not prevent us from incurring obligations that, although preferential to our Common Stock in terms of payment, may not constitute indebtedness. In addition, if new debt is added to our Company’s and/or our subsidiaries’ debt levels, the related risks that we now face as a result of our leverage would intensify. To service our indebtedness, we will require significant amounts of cash and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. Our ability to make cash payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on the earnings and the distribution of funds from our subsidiaries. Further, the terms of the instruments governing our indebtedness significantly restrict certain of our subsidiaries that are borrowers or guarantors under the Citizens Bank Credit Facility from paying dividends and otherwise transferring assets to us. The Company's subsidiaries that are borrowers under the Citizens Bank Credit Facility are AFT, ARC Wireless, GF&F, FloMet, Tekna Seal, and 3D Material Technologies; their obligations are guaranteed by the Company and its subsidiaries ARC Wireless, LLC, Quadrant Metals Technologies LLC, Advance Tooling Concepts, LLC, and Thixoforming LLC. Our ability to make cash payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, to fund planned capital expenditures and to meet other cash requirements will depend on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We might not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available under our Citizens Bank Credit Facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. In such circumstances, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances. Such actions, if necessary, may not be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our indebtedness will restrict our ability to sell assets and use the proceeds from such sales. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required lenders under our Citizens Bank Credit Facility to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under our Citizens Bank Credit Facility and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under our Citizens Bank Credit Facility, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. We are dependent upon our lenders for financing to execute our business strategy and meet our liquidity needs. If our lenders are unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments or we are unable to borrow, it could negatively impact our business. During periods of volatile credit markets, there is a risk that any lenders, even those with strong balance sheets and sound lending practices, could fail or refuse to honor their legal commitments and obligations under existing credit commitments, including, but not limited to, extending credit up to the maximum permitted by our Citizens Bank Credit Facility. If our lenders are unable to fund borrowings or we are unable to borrow (such as having insufficient capacity under our borrowing base), it could be difficult in such environments to obtain sufficient liquidity to meet our operational needs. Our ability to obtain additional capital on commercially reasonable terms may be limited. 19Although we believe our cash and cash equivalents as well as cash we expect to generate from operations and availability under our Citizens Bank Credit Facility provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, we may need to seek additional financing to compete effectively. If we are unable to obtain capital on commercially reasonable terms, it could: •reduce funds available to us for purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, strategic acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;•restrict our ability to introduce new products or exploit business opportunities;•increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and competitive pressures in the markets in which we operate; and•place us at a competitive disadvantage. Difficult and volatile conditions in the capital, credit and commodities markets and in the overall economy could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. A worsening of global economic conditions, including concerns about sovereign debt and significant volatility in the capital, credit and commodities markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Difficult conditions in these markets and the overall economy affect our business in a number of ways. For example: •in the event of volatility in commodity prices, we may encounter difficulty in achieving sustained market acceptance of past or future price increases, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows;•under difficult market conditions there can be no assurance that borrowings under our Citizens Bank Credit Facility would be available or sufficient, and in such a case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on reasonable terms, or at all;•in order to respond to market conditions, we may need to seek waivers from various provisions in our Citizens Bank Credit Facility. There can be no assurance that we can obtain such waivers at a reasonable cost, if at all;•market conditions could cause the counterparties to the derivative financial instruments we may use to hedge our exposure to interest rate, commodity or currency fluctuations to experience financial difficulties and, as a result, our efforts to hedge these exposures could prove unsuccessful and, furthermore, our ability to engage in additional hedging activities may decrease or become more costly; and•market conditions could result in our key customers experiencing financial difficulties and/or electing to limit spending, which in turn could result in decreased sales and earnings for us. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common StockOne holder of our Common Stock exerts significant influence over our Company and may make decisions with which other stockholders may disagree that could reduce the value of our stock. Everest Hill Group owns 9,035,192 shares or 59.9% of our total 15,080,121 outstanding shares. As a result, Everest Hill Group has the ability to exert significant influence over our business and may make decisions with which other stockholders may disagree, including, among other things, the appointment of officers and directors, changes in our business plan, delaying, discouraging or preventing a change of control of our Company or a potential merger, consolidation, tender offer, takeover or other business combination.The price of our Common Stock may fluctuate significantly, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Volatility in the market price of our Common Stock may prevent investors from being able to sell their Common Stock at or above the price investors paid for such Common Stock. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including: •our operating and financial performance and prospects; •our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; 20•the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; •changes in, or failure to meet, earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our Common Stock or the stock of other companies in our industry; •the failure of research analysts to cover our Common Stock; •strategic actions by us, our customers or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; •new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; •changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; •the impact on our profitability temporarily caused by the time lag between when we experience cost increases until these increases flow through cost of sales because of our method of accounting for inventory, or the impact from our inability to pass on such price increases to our customers; •material litigations or government investigations; •changes in general conditions in the U.S. and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events; •changes in key personnel; •sales of Common Stock by us, Everest Hill Group or members of our management team; •the granting or exercise of employee stock options; • volume of trading in our Common Stock; and •the realization of any risks described under this “Risk Factors” section. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our Common Stock and, consequently, the ability to achieve a return on your investment in our Common Stock will depend on appreciation in the price of our Common Stock. If our Common Stock does not appreciate in value, investors could suffer losses in their investment in our Common Stock. We do not currently expect to pay cash dividends on our Common Stock. Any future dividend payments are within the absolute discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, working capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, business opportunities, potential acquisition opportunities, anticipated cash needs, provisions of applicable law, and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. We may not generate sufficient cash from operations in the future to pay dividends on our Common Stock. As a result, the success of any investment in our Common Stock will depend on future appreciation in its value. The price of our Common Stock may not appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our shares were purchased. If our Common Stock does not appreciate in value, investors could suffer losses in their investment in our Common Stock. Investors may experience dilution of their ownership interests due to the future issuance of additional shares of our Common Stock which could be materially adverse to the value of our Common Stock. As of the date of this Report, we have 15,080,121 shares of our Common Stock outstanding. We are authorized to issue up to 250,000,000 shares of Common Stock and 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock. We or our shareholders, including Everest Hill Group, may sell additional shares of Common Stock in subsequent offerings or we may issue shares of our Common Stock as consideration in the future acquisitions. Our Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of additional common or preferred shares under applicable state law without shareholder approval. We may also issue additional shares of our Common Stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for Common Stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, future private placements of our securities for capital raising purposes or for other business purposes. If we need to raise additional capital to expand or continue operations, it may be necessary for us to issue additional equity or convertible debt securities. If we issue equity or convertible debt securities, the net tangible book value per share may decrease, the percentage ownership of our current stockholders may be diluted and such equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior 21or more advantageous to our Common Stockholders. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our Common Stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our Common Stock will have on the market price of our Common Stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our Common Stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Common Stock. Our stock price may be volatile and market movements may adversely impact an investment in our Company.In the past, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Hence, the market price of our Common Stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control and have little or nothing to do with our Company's operations. These fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price and cause our investors to lose all or part of their investment. Future sales of our Common Stock by our stockholders could depress the price of our stock. Further, in the past, market fluctuations and price declines in a company’s stock have led to securities class action litigations. If such a suit were to arise, it could have a substantial cost and divert our resources regardless of the outcome. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the rules of The NASDAQ Capital Market and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Our stockholders will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the rules of The NASDAQ Capital Market and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Our stockholders will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. Under The NASDAQ Capital Market rules, a company which has more than 50% of the voting power held by an individual, group or another company is a “controlled company.” Everest Hill Group controls a majority of the voting power of our outstanding Common Stock. As a result, we qualify as a “controlled company” within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of The NASDAQ Capital Market. We rely on the exemptions from certain The NASDAQ Capital Market corporate governance requirements. Our stockholders will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to those The NASDAQ Capital Market requirements. We currently elect to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including maintaining a majority of independent directors on our Board; however, we may in the future decide not to have a majority of independent directors and not to have our nominating and compensation committees consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, our stockholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of The NASDAQ Capital Market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 