Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, the following Risk Factors should be considered when evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report: We have a history of prior losses and there is no assurance that our operations will be profitable in the future. From inception through December 31, 2011, we have primarily incurred losses from operations. Profits incurred in certain years were marginal, and we cannot be assured that our operations in the future will be profitable. See the financial statements included in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our industry encounters rapid technological changes, and there is no assurance that our research and development activities can timely lead to new and improved products when the market demands them. We do business in the wireless communications industries. This industry is characterized by rapidly developing technology. Changes in technology could affect the market for our products and necessitate additional improvements and developments to our products. We cannot predict that our research and development activities will lead to the successful introduction of new or improved products or that we will not encounter delays or problems in these areas. The cost of completing new technologies to satisfy minimum specification requirements and/or quality and delivery expectations may exceed original estimates that could adversely affect operating results during any financial period. We rely on the protection of patents and certain manufacturing practices to protect our product designs and there is no assurance that these measures will be successful. We attempt to protect our product designs by obtaining patents, when available, and by manufacturing our products in a manner that makes reverse engineering difficult. These protections may not be sufficient to prevent our competitors from developing products that perform in a manner that is similar to or better than our products. Competitors’ successes may result in decreased margins and sales of our products. 8 We face intense competition in our industry and there is no assurance that we will be able to adequately compete with our larger competitors. The communications and antenna industries are highly competitive, and we compete with substantially larger companies. These competitors have larger sales forces and more highly developed marketing programs as well as larger administrative staffs and more available service personnel. The larger competitors also have greater financial resources available to develop and market competitive products. The presence of these competitors could significantly affect any attempts to develop our business. We do not currently have any agreements with any of our vendors, and such vendors could stop manufacturing products for us at any time. Although we believe that we could locate alternate vendors if any of our vendors terminated their business, our operations could be impacted until alternate vendors are found. The success of our business is highly dependent on key employees. We are highly dependent on the services of our executive management. The loss of the services of any of our executive management could have a material adverse effect on us. We may incur significant costs in complying with new governmental regulations that affect our industry, and this may require us to divert funds we use for the development of our business and product. We are subject to government regulation of our business operations in general. Certain of our products are subject to regulation by the FCC because they are designed to transmit signals. Because current regulations covering our operations are subject to change at any time, and despite our belief that we are in substantial compliance with government laws and regulations, we may incur significant costs for compliance in the future. We have not paid any cash dividends with respect to our shares, and it is unlikely that we will pay any cash dividends on our shares in the foreseeable future. We currently intend that any earnings that we may realize will be retained in the business for further development and expansion. We have significant sales concentrated in a few customers. The concentration of our business with a relatively small number of customers may expose us to a material adverse effect if one or more of these large customers were to experience financial difficulty or were to cease being a customer for non-financial related issues. In addition to the potential loss of significant customers, our business is affected by general economic conditions and any extended weakness in the U.S. and the world economy could reduce our business prospects and could cause decreases in our revenues and operating cash flows. The Company may make future acquisitions, which could involve numerous risks, including: ·diversion of management’s attention; ·the effect on the Company’s financial statements of the amortization of acquired intangible assets; 9 ·the cost associated with acquisitions and the integration of acquired operations; and ·assumption of unknown liabilities, or other unanticipated events or circumstances. Any of these risks could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that any business that we acquire will achieve anticipated revenues or operating results. Other Risks In addition, there are other risks, which if realized, in whole or in part, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations, including, without limitation: •intense competition, regionally and internationally, including competition from alternative business models, such as manufacturer-to-end-user selling, which may lead to reduced prices, lower sales or reduced sales growth, lower gross margins, extended payment terms with customers, increased capital investment and interest costs, bad debt risks and product supply shortages; •termination of a supply or services agreement with a major supplier or customer or a significant change in supplier terms or conditions of sale; •the continuation or worsening of the severe downturn in economic conditions (particularly purchases of technology products) and failure to adjust costs in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand; •losses resulting from significant credit exposure to reseller customers and negative trends in their businesses; •reductions in credit ratings and/or unavailability of adequate capital; •failure to attract new sources of business from expansion of products or services or entry into new markets; •inability to manage future adverse industry trends; •future periodic assessments required by current or new accounting standards resulting in additional charges; and •unstable economic and political conditions in China and adverse changes in the economic conditions or government policies in China. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 10 