Item 1a. Risk Factors. - ---------------------- In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, the following Risk Factors should be considered when evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report: 1. We have a history of prior losses and there is no assurance that our operations will be profitable in the future. From inception in September 1987 through the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992, and again for the years ended December 31, 1998 through the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001 and for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2003 and 2006, we incurred losses from operations. We operated profitably during each of the fiscal years ended December 31, 1993 through 1997 and again for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2002, 2004 and 2005. Profits for some of these years were marginal, and we cannot be assured that our operations in the future will be profitable. See the financial statements included in Item 14 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 2. Our industry encounters rapid technological changes and there is no assurance that our research and development activities can timely lead to new and improved products when the market demands them. We do business in the wireless communications industries. This industry is characterized by rapidly developing technology. Changes in technology could affect the market for our products and necessitate additional improvements and developments to our products. We cannot predict that our research and development activities will lead to the successful introduction of new or improved products or that we will not encounter delays or problems in these areas. The cost of completing new technologies to satisfy minimum specification requirements and/or quality and delivery expectations may exceed original estimates that could adversely affect operating results during any financial period. 3. We rely on the protection of patents and certain manufacturing practices to protect our product designs and there is no assurance that these measures will be successful. We attempt to protect our product designs by obtaining patents, when available, and by manufacturing our products in a manner that makes reverse engineering difficult. These protections may not be sufficient to prevent our competitors from developing products that perform in a manner that is similar to or better than our products. Competitors' successes may result in decreased margins and sales of our products. 4. We have limited financial resources available that may restrict our ability to grow. Additional capital from sources other than our operating cash flow may be necessary to develop new products. We cannot predict that this financing will be available from any source. 5. We face intense competition in our industry and there is no assurance that we will be able to adequately compete with our larger competitor. The communications and antenna industries are highly competitive, and we compete with substantially larger companies. These competitors have larger sales forces and more highly developed marketing programs as well as larger administrative staffs and more available service personnel. The larger competitors also have greater financial resources available to develop and market competitive products. The presence of these competitors could significantly affect any attempts to develop our business. 13 6. Our success depends on the availability of efficient overseas labor and we cannot predict that we will always have access to this labor in the futuret. We are transitioning our production to China and are dependent on efficient workers for these functions. We cannot predict that our contract manufacturers in China will will continue to be available to us at a cost consistent with our budget. 7. The success of our business is highly dependent on key employees. We are highly dependent on the services of our executive management, including Randall P. Marx, our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of any of our executive management could have a material adverse effect on us. 8. We may incur significant costs in complying with new governmental regulations that affect our industry, and this may require us to divert funds we use for the development of our business and product. We are subject to government regulation of our business operations in general. Certain of our products are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") because they are designed to transmit signals. Because current regulations covering our operations are subject to change at any time, and despite our belief that we are in substantial compliance with government laws and regulations, we may incur significant costs for compliance in the future. 9. Historically, there has been an extremely limited public market for our shares and we cannot predict that recent trading volume will be sustained. Historically, there has been an extremely limited public market for our shares. We cannot predict that the recent trading volume will be sustained. The prices of our shares are highly volatile. Due to the relatively low price of the shares, many brokerage firms may not effect transactions and may not deal with low priced shares, as it may not be economical for them to do so. This could have an adverse effect on sustaining the market for our shares. Further, we believe it is improbable that any investor will be able to use our shares as collateral in a margin account. For the foreseeable future, trading in the shares, if any, will occur in the over-the-counter market and the shares will be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. On February 28, 2007, the low bid price for the common stock was $4.82, the high asked price was $4.98 and the closing sale price was $4.98. Because of the matters described above, a holder of our shares may be unable to sell shares when desired, if at all. 10. We have not paid any cash dividends with respect to our shares, and it is unlikely that we will pay any cash dividends on our shares in the foreseeable future. We currently intend that any earnings that we may realize will be retained in the business for further development and expansion. 11. Other Risks. In addition, there are other risks, which if realized, in whole or in part, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations, including, without limitation: o intense competition, regionally and internationally, including competition from alternative business models, such as manufacturer-to-end-user selling, which may lead to reduced prices, lower sales or reduced sales growth, lower gross margins, extended payment terms with customers, increased capital investment and interest costs, bad debt risks and product supply shortages; o termination of a supply or services agreement with a major supplier or customer or a significant change in supplier terms or conditions of sale; o the continuation or worsening of the severe downturn in economic conditions (particularly purchases of technology products) and failure to adjust costs in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand; 14 o losses resulting from significant credit exposure to reseller customers and negative trends in their businesses; o reductions in credit ratings and/or unavailability of adequate capital; o failure to attract new sources of business from expansion of products or services or entry into new markets; o inability to manage future adverse industry trends; o future periodic assessments required by current or new accounting standards resulting in additional charges; and o Unstable conditions in China. Available Information. - ---------------------- We make available free of charge on our website at www.arcwireless.net, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K (including exhibits and supplementary schedules) and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished under Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities Exchange Commission. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments - ---------------------------------- None 