ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to various risks, including the risks described below. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. We may be unable to invest in new assets with attractive yields, and yields on new assets in which we do invest may not generate attractive yields, resulting in a smaller than anticipated increase or an outright decline in our earnings per share over time. For the last several years, we have not actively been reinvesting our capital, and our existing investments have been declining as we have sold investments or assets have otherwise paid down. We have been investing a portion of our available capital in short duration high credit quality assets. We anticipate deploying our capital in 2008 and that the capital deployed will earn greater returns than it is currently earning. However, we may be unable to find assets with attractive yields, and our net interest income may decline, resulting in lower earnings per share over time. In order to maintain our investment portfolio size and our earnings, we need to reinvest a portion of the cash flows we receive into new interest-earning assets. In addition, we may experience competition for assets in which we desire to invest from other entities which may have greater resources and a lower cost of capital than we do, and as a result, we may be unable to find or afford suitable investment opportunities. New investments may entail risks that we do not currently have in our investment portfolio or may substantially add risks to the investment portfolio which we may or may not have managed in the past as part of our investment strategy. In addition, while we have owned Agency RMBS in the past, we have never had a significant amount of our capital invested in these assets. We contemplate purchasing investment securities such as Agency RMBS which carry concentrated risks including prepayment risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, credit risk and liquidity or margin-call risk. While our investment portfolio generally already includes these risks to some degree, we may become more concentrated in one type of risk than another as we add investments. While we will attempt to manage these risks, we may inadvertently become overly concentrated in a particular risk which may increase the volatility in our net income or reported book value if these investments are carried at fair value. In addition, our investing in Agency RMBS and the use of repurchase agreement financing will likely magnify the risks indicated above in the following ways: · Prepayment risk may increase as we will likely be purchasing these securities at prices exceeding their par value. In such instance our earnings and book value may be negatively impacted if prepayments on these securities exceed our expectations. · Interest rate risk will increase as result of, among other things, the purchase of Hybrid Agency RMBS, which have interest rates that are fixed for an initial period and will be financed principally with repurchase agreements that are not expected to have fixed rates of interest. In addition, Hybrid Agency RMBS typically have contractually limited periodic or lifetime caps on their interest rates whereas repurchase agreement financing will not. 5 · Operational risk will increase as we begin to deploy our capital and as we become more concentrated in Agency RMBS. · Liquidity, or margin-call risk, will increase as a result of our reliance on financing for the purchase of Agency RMBS. In periods of high volatility in the marketplace, such as was experienced in 2007, our access to financing may be substantially reduced, potentially requiring us to sell assets in unfavorable markets to repay financings and impacting our ability to add investments at a positive net interest spread. In addition, if the value of the collateral should fall below the required level, the repurchase agreement lender could initiate a margin call, which would require that we either pledge additional collateral acceptable to the lender or repay a portion of the debt in order to meet the margin requirement. If we are unable to meet a margin call, we could be forced to quickly sell the assets collateralizing the financing, potentially resulting in a lower sales price than could otherwise be obtained if the assets were sold in a more orderly fashion. Competition may prevent us from acquiring new investments at favorable yields potentially negatively impacting our profitability. Our net income will largely depend on our ability to acquire mortgage-related assets at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. In acquiring investments, we may compete with other mortgage REITs, broker-dealers, hedge funds, banks, savings and loans, insurance companies, mutual funds, and other entities that purchase assets similar to ours, many of which have greater financial resources than we do. As a result, we may not be able to acquire sufficient assets at acceptable spreads to our borrowing costs, which would adversely affect our profitability. Our ownership of certain subordinate interests in securitization trusts subjects us to credit risk on the underlying loans, and we provide for loss reserves on these loans as required under GAAP. As a result of our ownership of securitized mortgage loans and the overcollateralization portion of the securitization trust, the predominant risk in our investment portfolio is credit risk. Credit risk is the risk of loss to us from the failure by a borrower (or the proceeds from the liquidation of the underlying collateral) to fully repay the principal balance and interest due on a mortgage loan. A borrower’s ability to repay and the value of the underlying collateral could be negatively influenced by economic and market conditions. These conditions could be global, national, regional or local in nature. Upon securitization of a pool of mortgage loans, the credit risk retained by us from an economic point of view is generally limited to the overcollateralization tranche of the securitization trust. We provide for estimated losses on the gross amount of loans pledged to securitization trusts included in our financial statements as required by GAAP. In some instances, we may also retain subordinated bonds from the securitization trust, which increases our credit risk above the overcollateralization tranche from an economic perspective. We provide reserves for existing losses based on the current performance of the respective pool or on an individual loan basis. If losses are experienced more rapidly, due to declining property performance, market conditions or other factors, than we have provided for in our reserves, we may be required to provide additional reserves for these losses. Our efforts to manage credit risk may not be successful in limiting delinquencies and defaults in underlying loans or losses on our investments. Despite our efforts to manage credit risk, there are many aspects of credit performance that we cannot control. Third party servicers provide for the primary and special servicing of our loans. We have a risk management function, which oversees the performance of these services and provides limited asset management services. Our risk management operations may not be successful in limiting future delinquencies, defaults, and losses. The securitizations in which we have invested may not receive funds that we believe are due from mortgage insurance companies and other counter-parties. Loan servicing companies may not cooperate with our risk management efforts, or such efforts may be ineffective. Service providers to securitizations, such as trustees, bond insurance providers, and custodians, may not perform in a manner that promotes our interests. The value of the properties collateralizing the loans may decline. The frequency of default and the loss severity on loans that do default may be greater than we anticipated. If loans become “real estate owned” (REO), servicing companies will have to manage these properties and may not be able to sell them. Changes in consumer behavior, bankruptcy laws, tax laws, and other laws may exacerbate loan losses. In some states and circumstances, the securitizations in which we invest have recourse, as the owner of the loan, against the borrower’s other assets and income in the event of loan default; however, in most cases, the value of the underlying property will be the sole source of funds for any recoveries. 6 Certain investments employ internal structural leverage as a result of the securitization process and are in the most subordinate position in the capital structure, which magnifies the potential impact of adverse events on our cash flows and reported results. Many of the loans that we own have been pledged to securitization trusts, which employ a high degree of internal structural leverage and results in concentrated credit, interest rate, prepayment, or other risks. We have generally retained the most subordinate classes of the securitization trust as discussed above. As a result of these factors, net interest income and cash flows on our investments will vary based on the performance of the assets pledged to the securitization trust. In particular, should assets significantly underperform as to delinquencies, defaults, and credit losses, it is possible that cash flows which may have otherwise been paid to us as a result of our ownership of the subordinate interests may be retained within the securitization trust and payments of principal amounts of the subordinated class may be delayed or permanently reduced. No amount of risk management or mitigation can change the variable nature of the cash flows and financial results generated by concentrated risks in our investments. None of our existing trusts at December 31, 2007 have reached or are near these levels, but such levels could be reached in the future. We may be subject to the risks associated with inadequate or untimely services from third-party service providers, which may harm our results of operations. Our loans and loans underlying securities are serviced by third-party service providers. As with any external service provider, we are subject to the risks associated with inadequate or untimely services. Many borrowers require notices and reminders to keep their loans current and to prevent delinquencies and foreclosures. A substantial increase in our delinquency rate that results from improper servicing or loan performance in general could harm our ability to securitize our real estate loans in the future and may have an adverse effect on our earnings. Prepayments of principal on our investments, and the timing of prepayments, may impact our reported earnings and our cash flows. We own many of our securitized mortgage loans and have issued associated securitization financing bonds at premiums or discounts to their principal balances. Prepayments of principal on loans and the associated bonds, whether voluntary or involuntary, impact the amortization of premiums and discounts under the effective yield method of accounting that we use for GAAP accounting. Under the effective yield method of accounting, we recognize yields on our assets and effective costs of our liabilities based on assumptions regarding future cash flows. Variations in actual cash flows from those assumed as a result of prepayments and subsequent changes in future cash flow expectations will cause adjustments in yields on assets and costs of liabilities which could contribute to volatility in our future results. In a period of declining interest rates, loans and securities in the investment portfolio will generally prepay more rapidly (to the extent that such loans are not prohibited from prepayment), which may result in additional amortization of asset premium. In a flat yield curve environment (i.e., when there exists less spread between short-dated Treasury securities and longer dated ones), adjustable rate mortgage loans and securities tend to rapidly prepay, causing additional amortization of asset premium. In addition, the spread between our funding costs and asset yields may compress, causing a further reduction in our net interest income. We may finance a portion of our investment portfolio with short-term recourse repurchase agreements which may subject us to margin calls if the assets pledged subsequently decline in value. We finance a portion of our investments, primarily high credit quality, liquid securities, with recourse repurchase agreements. These arrangements require us to maintain a certain level of collateral for the related borrowings. If the collateral should fall below the required level, the repurchase agreement lender could initiate a margin call. This would require that we either pledge additional collateral acceptable to the lender or repay a portion of the debt in order to meet the margin requirement. Should we be unable to meet a margin call, we may have to liquidate the collateral or other assets quickly. Because a margin call and quick sale could result in a lower than otherwise expected and attainable sale price, we may incur a loss on the sale of the collateral. While we currently only finance a small portion of our investments with repurchase agreements, we anticipate having much greater amounts of repurchase agreements as we purchase new investments. 7 Interest rate fluctuations can have various negative effects on us and could lead to reduced earnings and/or increased earnings volatility. Our investment portfolio today is substantially match-funded (meaning fixed rate assets are financed with fixed rate liabilities), and overall our current portfolio is largely insulated from material risks related to changes in interest rates. Future investments, however, may be financed with repurchase agreements which may have different interest rate characteristics or maturities than the investments which they finance. Certain of our current investments and contemplated future investments are adjustable rate loans and securities, which have interest rates that reset semi-annually or annually, based on an index such as the one-year constant maturity treasury or the six-month LIBOR. These investments may be financed with borrowings which reset monthly, based on one-month LIBOR. In a rising rate environment, net interest income earned on these investments may be reduced, as the interest cost for the funding sources could increase more rapidly than the interest earned on the associated asset financed. In a declining interest rate environment, net interest income may be enhanced as the interest cost for the funding sources decreases more rapidly than the interest earned on the associated assets. To the extent that assets and liabilities are both fixed rate or adjustable rate with corresponding payment dates, interest rate risk may be mitigated. Hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect our earnings. Subject to complying with REIT requirements, we intend to employ techniques that limit, or “hedge,” the adverse effects of changing interest rates on our short-term repurchase agreements and on the value of our assets. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates and principal repayments, the type of securities held and other changing market conditions. These techniques may include entering into interest rate swap agreements or interest rate cap or floor agreements, purchasing or selling futures contracts, purchasing put and call options on securities or securities underlying futures contracts, or entering into forward rate agreements. However, there are no perfect hedging strategies, and interest rate hedging may fail to protect us from loss. In addition, these hedging strategies may adversely affect us, because hedging activities involve an expense that we will incur regardless of the effectiveness of the hedging activity. Hedging activities could result in losses if the event against which we hedge does not occur. Additionally, interest rate hedging could fail to protect us or adversely affect us, because among other things: • available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; • the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay; • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and • the value of derivatives used for hedging may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with accounting rules to reflect changes in fair value. Downward adjustments, or “mark-to-market losses,” would reduce our shareholders’ equity. Our reported income depends on accounting conventions and assumptions about the future that may change. Accounting rules for our assets and for the various aspects of our current and future business change from time to time. Changes in GAAP, or the accepted interpretation of these accounting principles, can affect our reported income and shareholders’ equity. Interest income on our assets and interest expense on our liabilities may in part be based on estimates of future events. These estimates can change in a manner that negatively impacts our results or can demonstrate, in retrospect, that revenue recognition in prior periods was too high or too low. We use the effective yield method of GAAP accounting for many of our investments. We calculate projected cash flows for each of these assets incorporating assumptions about the amount and timing of credit losses, loan prepayment rates, and other factors. The yield we recognize for GAAP purposes generally equals the discount rate that produces a net present value for actual and projected cash flows that equals our GAAP basis in that asset. We change the yield recognized on these assets based on actual performance and as we change our estimates of future cash flows. The assumptions that underlie our projected cash flows and effective yield analysis may prove to be overly optimistic, or conversely, overly conservative. In these cases, our GAAP yield on the asset, or cost of the liability may change, leading to changes in our reported GAAP results. 8 Failure to qualify as a REIT would adversely affect our dividend distributions and could adversely affect the value of our securities. We believe that we have met all requirements for qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, and we intend to continue to operate to remain qualified as a REIT in the future. However, many of the requirements for qualification as a REIT are highly technical and complex and require an analysis of factual matters and an application of the legal requirements to such factual matters in situations where there is only limited judicial and administrative guidance. Thus, no assurance can be given that the Internal Revenue Service or a court would agree with our conclusion that we have qualified as a REIT or that future changes in our factual situation or the law will allow us to remain qualified as a REIT. If we failed to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and did not meet the requirements for statutory relief, we could be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates on our income if we could not otherwise offset taxable income with our NOL carryforward, and we could possibly be disqualified as a REIT for four years thereafter. Failure to qualify as a REIT could force us to sell certain of our investments, possibly at a loss, and could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Maintaining REIT status may reduce our flexibility to manage our operations. To maintain REIT status, we must follow certain rules and meet certain tests. In doing so, our flexibility to manage our operations may be reduced. For instance: ·If we make frequent asset sales from our REIT entities to persons deemed customers, we could be viewed as a “dealer,” and thus subject to 100% prohibited transaction taxes or other entity level taxes on income from such transactions. ·Compliance with the REIT income and asset rules may limit the type or extent of hedging that we can undertake. ·Our ability to own non-real estate related assets and earn non-real estate related income is limited. Our ability to own equity interests in other entities is limited. If we fail to comply with these limits, we may be forced to liquidate attractive assets on short notice on unfavorable terms in order to maintain our REIT status. ·Our ability to invest in taxable subsidiaries is limited under the REIT rules. Maintaining compliance with this limitation could require us to constrain the growth of our taxable REIT affiliates in the future. ·Meeting minimum REIT dividend distribution requirements could reduce our liquidity. Earning non-cash REIT taxable income could necessitate our selling assets, incurring debt, or raising new equity in order to fund dividend distributions. ·Stock ownership tests may limit our ability to raise significant amounts of equity capital from one source. If we fail to properly conduct our operations we could become subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940. We seek to conduct our operations so as to avoid falling under the definition of an investment company pursuant to the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the 1940 Act). Specifically, we currently seek to conduct our operations under the exemption afforded under the 1940 Act pursuant to Section 3(c)(5)(C), a provision available to companies primarily engaged in the business of purchasing and otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate. According to SEC no-action letters, companies relying on this exemption must ensure that at least 55% of their assets are mortgage loans and other qualifying assets, and at least 80% of their assets are real estate-related. We recently learned that the staff of the SEC has provided informal guidance to other companies that these asset tests should be measured on an unconsolidated basis. Accordingly, we will make any adjustments necessary to ensure we continue to qualify for, and each of our subsidiaries also continues to qualify for an exemption from registration under the 1940 Act. We and our subsidiaries will rely either on Section 3(c)(5)(C) or other sections that provide exemptions from registering under the 1940 Act, including Sections 3(a)(1)(C) and 3(c)(7). 9 If the SEC were to determine that we were an investment company with no currently available exemption or exclusion from registration and that we were, therefore, required to register as an investment company our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced, and our ability to conduct business as we do today would be impaired. We are dependent on certain key personnel. We have only two executive officers, Thomas B. Akin, our Chief Executive Officer, and Stephen J. Benedetti, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Akin has been a director of the Company since 2003 and was appointed Chief Executive Officer in February 2008. Mr. Akin has extensive knowledge of the mortgage industry and the Company. Mr. Benedetti has been with us since 1994 and has extensive knowledge of the Company, our operations, and our investment portfolio. He also has extensive experience in managing a portfolio of mortgage-related investments and as an executive officer of a publicly-traded mortgage REIT. The loss of either Mr. Akin or Mr. Benedetti could have an adverse effect on our operations or an adverse effect on any of our counterparties. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved comments from the SEC Staff. ITEM 