Item 1a. Risk Factors We face a variety of risks in our business, many of which are substantial and inherent in our business and operations. The following are risk factors that could affect our business which we consider material to our industry and to holders of our common stock. Other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including reports which are incorporated by reference, may include additional factors which could adversely impact our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for our management to predict all risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business We may not be able to maintain a positive cash flow and profitability. Our ability to maintain a positive cash flow and profitability depends on our ability to generate and maintain greater revenue while incurring reasonable expenses. This, in turn, depends, among other things, on the development of our investment banking and securities brokerage business, and we may be unable to maintain profitability if we fail to do any of the following: · establish, maintain, and increase our client base; · manage the quality of our services; · compete effectively with existing and potential competitors; · further develop our business activities; · attract and retain qualified personnel; · limit operating costs; · settle pending litigation, and · maintain adequate working capital We cannot be certain that we will be able to sustain or increase a positive cash flow and profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our inability to maintain profitability or positive cash flow could result in disappointing financial results, impede implementation of our growth strategy, or cause the market price of our common stock to decrease. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to generate the cash flow and profits necessary to sustain our business. We have had a number of structural changes to our operations as we divested certain non-core business lines to focus our service and product offerings. Additionally, there have been a number of significant challenges faced by the securities and financial industries in the past 18 months. As a result of our structural changes and the uncertainty of the current economic environment, the factors upon which we are able to base our estimates as to the gross revenue and the number of participating clients that will be required for us to maintain a positive cash flow are unpredictable. For these and other reasons, we cannot assure you that we will not require higher gross revenue and an increased number of clients, securities brokerage, and investment banking transactions, and/or more time in order for us to complete the development of our business that we believe we need to be able to cover our operating expenses. It is more likely than not that our estimates will prove to be inaccurate because actual events more often than not differ from anticipated events. Furthermore, in the event that financing is needed in addition to the amount that is required for this development, we cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. 9 There are substantial legal proceedings against us involving claims for significant damages. The actions of a former customer, William Del Biaggio III (“Del Biaggio”), and a former employee, David Scott Cacchione (“Cacchione”), have given rise to many legal actions against us as described in the Legal Proceedings section below. We selected the lawsuits we believed were of the most threatening in nature and, as of September 8, 2009, settled them in conjunction with our strategic transaction of that date. There are other lawsuits related to these actions of our former employee which we have elected not to settle. If we are found to be liable for the claims asserted in any or all of these legal actions, our cash position may suffer. Even if we ultimately prevail in all of these lawsuits, we may incur significant legal fees and diversion of management’s time and attention from our core businesses, and our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. We believe we have meritorious defenses against these claims, but there is no assurance of any favorable outcome. Our exposure to legal liability is significant, and damages that we may be required to pay and the reputation harm that could result from legal action against us could materially adversely affect our businesses. Unrelated to the actions of Del Biaggio and Cacchione, we face significant legal risks in our businesses and, in recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions have been increasing. These risks include potential liability under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions, potential liability for “fairness opinions” and other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions and disputes over the terms and conditions of complex trading arrangements. We are also subject to claims arising from disputes with employees for alleged discrimination or harassment, among other things. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Our role as advisor to our clients on important underwriting or mergers and acquisitions transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including rendering “fairness opinions” in connection with mergers and other transactions. Therefore, our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and third parties, including shareholders of our clients who could bring securities class actions against us. Our investment banking engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be enforceable in all cases. For example, an indemnity from a client that subsequently is placed into bankruptcy is likely to be of little value to us in limiting our exposure to claims relating to that client. As a result, we may incur significant legal and other expenses in defending against litigation and may be required to pay substantial damages for settlements and adverse judgments. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cause significant reputation harm to us, which could seriously harm our business and prospects. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation often has been instituted against that company. Such litigation is expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to such litigation. If we are subject to such litigation, even if we ultimately prevail, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. We may not be able to continue operating our business The Company incurred significant losses in 2009 and 2008. Even if we are successful in executing our plans, we will not be capable of sustaining losses such as those incurred in 2008. The Company’s ability to meet its financial obligations is highly dependent on market and economic conditions. We also recorded net losses in certain quarters within other past fiscal years. If operating conditions worsen in 2010 or if the Company receives adverse judgments in its pending litigations, we may not have the resources to meet our financial obligations. If the Company is not able to continue in business, the entire investment of our common stockholders may be at risk, and there can be no assurance that any proceeds stockholders would receive in liquidation would be equal to their investment in the Company, or even that stockholders would receive any proceeds in consideration of their common stock. 10 Limitations on our access to capital and our ability to comply with net capital requirements could impair ability to conduct our business Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to financial services firms. Failures of financial institutions have often been attributable in large part to insufficient liquidity. Liquidity is of importance to our trading business and perceived liquidity issues may affect our clients and counterparties’ willingness to engage in brokerage transactions with us. Our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects our trading clients, third parties or us. Further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time. MCF, our broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the net capital requirements of the SEC and various self-regulatory organizations of which it is a member. These requirements typically specify the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain and also mandate that a significant part of its assets be kept in relatively liquid form. Any failure to comply with these net capital requirements could impair our ability to conduct our core business as a brokerage firm. Furthermore, MCF is subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from it to Merriman Curhan Ford Group, Inc. As a holding company, Merriman Curhan Ford Group, Inc. depends on distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund all payments on its obligations. As a result, regulatory actions could impede access to funds that Merriman Curhan Ford Group, Inc. needs to make payments on obligations, including debt obligations. Our financial results may fluctuate substantially from period to period, which may impair our stock price. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, significant periodic variations in our revenue and results of operations. These variations may be attributed in part to the fact that our investment banking revenue is typically earned upon the successful completion of a transaction, the timing of which is uncertain and beyond our control. In most cases we receive little or no payment for investment banking engagements that do not result in the successful completion of a transaction. As a result, our business is highly dependent on market conditions as well as the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties. For example, a client’s acquisition transaction may be delayed or terminated because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or shareholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, adverse market conditions, or unexpected financial or other problems in the client’s or counterparty’s business. If the parties fail to complete a transaction on which we are advising or an offering in which we are participating, we will earn little or no revenue from the transaction. This risk may be intensified by our focus on growth companies in the CleanTech, Consumer/Internet/Media, Health Care, and Tech/Telecom sectors, as the market for securities of these companies has experienced significant variations in the number and size of equity offerings. Recently, there have been very few initial public offerings. More companies initiating the process of an initial public offering are simultaneously exploring merger and acquisition opportunities. If we are not engaged as a strategic advisor in any such dual-tracked process, our investment banking revenue would be adversely affected in the event that an initial public offering is not consummated. As a result, we are unlikely to achieve steady and predictable earnings on a quarterly basis, which could in turn adversely affect our stock price. Our ability to retain our professionals and recruit additional professionals is critical to the success of our business, and our failure to do so may materially adversely affect our reputation, business, and results of operations. Our ability to obtain and successfully execute our business depends upon the personal reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and project execution skills of our senior professionals, particularly D. Jonathan Merriman, our Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer of the parent company, and the other members of our Executive Committee. Our senior professionals’ personal reputations and relationships with our clients are a critical element in obtaining and executing client engagements. We face intense competition for qualified employees from other companies in the investment banking industry as well as from businesses outside the investment banking industry, such as investment advisory firms, hedge funds, private equity funds, and venture capital funds. From time to time, we have experienced losses of investment banking, brokerage, research, and other professionals and losses of our key personnel may occur in the future. The departure or other loss of Mr. Merriman, other members of our Executive Committee or any other senior professional who manages substantial client relationships and possesses substantial experience and expertise, could impair our ability to secure or successfully complete engagements, or protect our market share, each of which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Please see Risk Factor below entitled “If our CEO leaves the Company…“ for additional information regarding the consequences of the loss of the services of Mr. Merriman. 11 If any of our professionals were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to leave. The compensation plans and other incentive plans we have entered into with certain of our professionals may not prove effective in preventing them from resigning to join our competitors. If we are unable to retain our professionals or recruit additional professionals, our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Our compensation structure may negatively impact our financial condition if we are not able to effectively manage our expenses and cash flows. Historically, the industry has been able to attract and retain investment banking, research, and sales and trading professionals in part because the business models have provided for lucrative compensation packages. Compensation and benefits is our largest expenditure and the variable compensation component, or bonus, has represented a significant proportion of this expense. The Company’s bonus compensation is discretionary. For 2009, the potential pool was determined by a number of components including revenue production, key operating milestones, and profitability. There is a potential, in order to ensure retention of key employees, that we could pay individuals for revenue production despite the business having negative cash flows and/or net losses. Pricing and other competitive pressures may impair the revenue and profitability of our brokerage business. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from our brokerage business. Along with other brokerage firms, we have experienced intense price competition in this business in recent years. Recent developments in the brokerage industry, including decimalization and the growth of electronic communications networks, or ECNs, have reduced commission rates and profitability in the brokerage industry. We expect this trend toward alternative trading systems to continue. We believe we may experience competitive pressures in these and other areas as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by competing on the basis of price. In addition, we face pressure from larger competitors, which may be better able to offer a broader range of complementary products and services to brokerage clients in order to win their trading business. As we are committed to maintaining our comprehensive research coverage in our target sectors to support our brokerage business, we may be required to make substantial investments in our research capabilities. If we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors in these areas, brokerage revenue may decline and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may experience significant losses if the value of our marketable security positions deteriorates. We conduct active and aggressive securities trading, market making, and investment activities for our own account, which subjects our capital to significant risks. These risks include market, credit, counterparty, and liquidity risks, which could result in losses. These activities often involve the purchase, sale, or short sale of securities as principal in markets that may be characterized as relatively illiquid or that may be particularly susceptible to rapid fluctuations in liquidity and price. Trading losses resulting from such trading could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Difficult market conditions could adversely affect our business in many ways. Difficult market and economic conditions and geopolitical uncertainties have in the past adversely affected and may in the future adversely affect our business and profitability in many ways. Weakness in equity markets and diminished trading volume of securities could adversely impact our brokerage business, from which we have historically generated more than half of our revenue. Industry-wide declines in the size and number of underwritings and mergers and acquisitions also would likely have an adverse effect on our revenue. In addition, reductions in the trading prices for equity securities also tend to reduce the deal value of investment banking transactions, such as underwriting and mergers and acquisitions transactions, which in turn may reduce the fees we earn from these transactions. As we may be unable to reduce expenses correspondingly, our profits and profit margins may decline. We may suffer losses through our investments in securities purchased in secondary market transactions or private placements. Occasionally, our Company, its officers and/or employees may make principal investments in securities through secondary market transactions or through direct investment in companies through private placements. In many cases, employees and officers with investment discretion on behalf of our Company decide whether to invest in our account or their personal account. It is possible that gains from investing will accrue to these individuals because investments were made in their personal accounts, and our Company will not realize gains because it did not make an investment. It is possible that gains from investing will accrue to these individuals and /or to the Company, while the Company’s brokerage customers do not accrue gains in the same securities due to differences in timing of investment decisions. Conversely, it is possible that losses from investing will accrue to our Company, while these individuals do not experience losses in their personal accounts because the individuals did not make investments in their personal accounts. 12 We face strong competition from larger firms. The brokerage and investment banking industries are intensely competitive. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including client relationships, reputation, the abilities and past performance of our professionals, market focus and the relative quality and price of our services and products. We have experienced intense price competition with respect to our brokerage business, including large block trades, spreads, and trading commissions. Pricing and other competitive pressures in investment banking, including the trends toward multiple book runners, co-managers, and multiple financial advisors handling transactions, have continued and could adversely affect our revenue, even during periods where the volume and number of investment banking transactions are increasing. We believe we may experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by competing on the basis of price. We are a relatively small investment bank with approximately 94 employees as of December 31, 2009 and revenue less than $50 million in 2009. Many of our competitors in the investment banking and brokerage industries have a broader range of products and services, greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition, more senior professionals to serve their clients’ needs, greater global reach, and more established relationships with clients than we have. These larger and better capitalized competitors may be better able to respond to changes in the brokerage, investment banking, and asset management industries, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth, and to compete for market share generally. The scale of our competitors has increased in recent years as a result of substantial consolidation among companies in the investment banking and brokerage industries. In addition, a number of large commercial banks, insurance companies, and other broad-based financial services firms have established or acquired underwriting or financial advisory practices and broker-dealers or have merged with other financial institutions. These firms have the ability to offer a wider range of products than we do, which may enhance their competitive position. They also have the ability to support investment banking with commercial banking, insurance, and other financial services in an effort to gain market share, which has resulted, and could further result, in pricing pressure in our businesses. In particular, the ability to provide financing has become an important advantage for some of our larger competitors and, because we do not provide such financing, we may be unable to compete as effectively for clients in a significant part of the brokerage and investment banking market. If we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be adversely affected. We have incurred losses for the period covered by this report and in the recent past and may incur losses in the future. The Company recorded net losses of $5,462,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009 and $30,274,000 for the year ended December 31, 2008. We also recorded net losses in certain quarters within other past fiscal years. We may incur losses in future periods. If we are unable to finance future losses, those losses may have a significant effect on our liquidity as well as our ability to operate. In addition, the Company may incur significant expenses in connection with initiating new business activities or in connection with any expansion of our underwriting, brokerage, or other businesses. We may also engage in strategic acquisitions and investments for which we may incur significant expenses. Accordingly, we may need to increase our revenue at a rate greater than our expenses to achieve and maintain profitability. If our revenue does not increase sufficiently, or even if our revenue does increase but we are unable to manage our expenses, we will not achieve and maintain profitability in future periods. Capital markets and strategic advisory engagements are singular in nature and do not generally provide for subsequent engagements. Our investment banking clients generally retain us on a short-term, engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific capital markets or mergers and acquisitions transactions, rather than on a recurring basis under long-term contracts. As these transactions are typically singular in nature and our engagements with these clients may not recur, we must seek out new engagements when our current engagements are successfully completed or are terminated. As a result, high activity levels in any period are not necessarily indicative of continued high levels of activity in any subsequent period. If we are unable to generate a substantial number of new engagements and generate fees from those successful completion of transactions, our business and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. 13 A significant portion of our brokerage revenue is generated from a relatively small number of institutional clients. A significant portion of our brokerage revenue is generated from a relatively small number of institutional clients. For example, in 2009 we generated 14% of our brokerage revenue, or approximately 12% of our total revenue, from our ten largest brokerage clients. Similarly, in 2008 we generated 37% of our brokerage revenue, or approximately 25% of our total revenue, from our ten largest brokerage clients. If any of our key clients departs or reduces its business with us and we fail to attract new clients that are capable of generating significant trading volumes, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our risk management policies and procedures could expose us to unidentified or unanticipated risk. Our risk management strategies and techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities, or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure, breach of contract, or other reasons. We are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. As a clearing member firm, we finance our customer positions and could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. Although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses, or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. Also, risk management policies and procedures that we utilize with respect to investing our own funds or committing our capital with respect to investment banking or trading activities may not protect us or mitigate our risks from those activities. If any of the variety of instruments, processes, and strategies we utilize to manage our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses. Our operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail. Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of increasingly complex transactions across diverse markets. Our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, including a disruption of electrical or communications services or our inability to occupy one or more of our buildings. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our businesses. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled or if there are other shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people, or systems, we could suffer an impairment to our liquidity, financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention, or reputation damage. We also face the risk of operational failure of any of our clearing agents, the exchanges, clearing houses, or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. Any such failure or termination could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions and to manage our exposure to risk. In addition, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which located. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation, or other services used by us or third parties with which we conduct business, whether due to fire, other natural disaster, power or communications failure, act of terrorism or war or otherwise. Nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including San Francisco and New York, work in proximity to each other. If a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer and we may not be able to implement successfully contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. Insurance policies to mitigate these risks may not be available or may be more expensive than the perceived benefit. Further, any insurance that we may purchase to mitigate certain of these risks may not cover our loss. 14 Our operations also rely on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Our computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients’ or counterparties’ confidential and other information processed by, stored in, and transmitted through our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients’, our counterparties’, or third parties’ operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. Strategic investments or acquisitions and joint ventures may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. We may grow our business through both internal expansion and through strategic investments, acquisitions or joint ventures. To the extent we make strategic investments or acquisitions or enter into joint ventures, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating businesses, including integrating relationships with customers, business partners, and internal data processing systems. In the case of joint ventures, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputation damage relating to systems, controls, and personnel that are not under our control. In addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and our joint venture partners may negatively impact our businesses. Future acquisitions or joint ventures by us could entail a number of risks, including problems with the effective integration of operations, the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships and integrate new relationships, the inability to retain key employees, increased operating costs, exposure to unanticipated liabilities, risks of misconduct by employees not subject to our control, difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings, and exposure to new or unknown liabilities. Any future growth of our business may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs, or liabilities. In addition, expansions, acquisitions or joint ventures may require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our other operations. Evaluation of our prospects may be more difficult in light of our limited operating history. As a result of the volatile economic conditions faced by the securities and financial industries, and the restructuring of our business lines, there have been a number of changes to our operations. Given these changes, we can no longer rely upon prior operating history to evaluate our business and prospects. Additionally, we are subject to the risks and uncertainties that face a Company in the process of restructuring its business in the midst of uncertain economic environment. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to attract and retain clients on a cost-effective basis, expand and enhance our service offerings, raise additional capital, and respond to competitive market conditions. We may not be able to address these risks adequately, and our failure to do so may adversely affect our business and the value of an investment in our Common Stock. Risks Related to Our Industry Risks associated with volatility and losses in the financial markets. The U.S. financial markets in 2008 and early 2009 suffered unprecedented volatility and losses. Several mortgage-related financial institutions and large, reputable investment banks were not able to continue operating their businesses. In the event that the securities and financial industries face similar or greater volatility, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue our operations. Employee misconduct could harm us and is difficult to detect and deter. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years. Our experience with our former employee Scott Cacchione hurt our business significantly, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur at our company. For example, misconduct by employees could involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputation or financial harm to us. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct. The precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases and we may suffer significant reputation harm for any misconduct by our employees. 15 Risks associated with regulatory impact on capital markets. Highly publicized financial scandals in recent years have led to investor concerns over the integrity of the U.S. financial markets and have prompted Congress, the SEC, the NYSE, and FINRA to significantly expand corporate governance and public disclosure requirements. To the extent that private companies, in order to avoid becoming subject to these new requirements, decide to forgo initial public offerings, our equity underwriting business may be adversely affected. In addition, provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the corporate governance rules imposed by self-regulatory organizations have diverted many companies’ attention away from capital market transactions, including securities offerings and acquisition and disposition transactions. In particular, companies that are or are planning to register their securities with the SEC or to become subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are incurring significant expenses in complying with the SEC and accounting standards relating to internal control over financial reporting, and companies that disclose material weaknesses in such controls under the new standards may have greater difficulty accessing the capital markets. These factors, in addition to adopted or proposed accounting and disclosure changes, may have an adverse effect on the business. Financial services firms have been subject to increased scrutiny over the last several years, increasing the risk of financial liability and reputation harm resulting from adverse regulatory actions. Firms in the financial services industry have been operating in a difficult regulatory environment. The industry has experienced increased scrutiny from a variety of regulators, including the SEC, the NYSE, FINRA and state attorneys general. Penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years. This regulatory and enforcement environment has created uncertainty with respect to a number of transactions that had historically been entered into by financial services firms and that were generally believed to be permissible and appropriate. We may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. We also may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other United States or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets. Among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputation harm to us, which could seriously harm our business prospects. In addition, financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interests or perceived conflicts. The SEC and other federal and state regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. We have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts and regularly seek to review and update our policies, controls and procedures. However, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. Our policies and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts may also result in increased costs, additional operational personnel and increased regulatory risk. Failure to adhere to these policies and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or client litigation. For example, the research areas of investment banks have been and remain the subject of heightened regulatory scrutiny which has led to increased restrictions on the interaction between equity research analysts and investment banking personnel at securities firms. Several securities firms in the United States reached a global settlement in 2003 and 2004 with certain federal and state securities regulators and self-regulatory organizations to resolve investigations into equity research analysts’ alleged conflicts of interest. Under this settlement, the firms have been subject to certain restrictions and undertakings, which have imposed additional costs and limitations on the conduct of our businesses. Financial service companies have experienced a number of highly publicized regulatory inquiries concerning market timing, late trading and other activities that focus on the mutual fund industry. These inquiries have resulted in increased scrutiny within the industry and new rules and regulations for mutual funds, investment advisers, and broker-dealers. 16 Our exposure to legal liability is significant, and damages that we may be required to pay and the reputational harm that could result from legal action against us could materially adversely affect our businesses. We face significant legal risks in our businesses and, in recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions have been increasing. These risks include potential liability under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions, potential liability for “fairness opinions,” and other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions, and disputes over the terms and conditions of complex trading arrangements. We are also subject to claims arising from disputes with employees for alleged discrimination or harassment, among other things. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Our role as advisor to our clients on important underwriting or mergers and acquisitions transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including rendering “fairness opinions” in connection with mergers, and other transactions. Therefore, our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and aggrieved third parties, including stockholders of our clients who could bring securities class actions against us. Our investment banking engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be enforceable in all cases. For example, an indemnity from a client that subsequently is placed into bankruptcy is likely to be of little value to us in limiting our exposure to claims relating to that client. As a result, we may incur significant legal and other expenses in defending against litigation and may be required to pay substantial damages for settlements and adverse judgments. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business and prospects. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation often has been instituted against that company. Such litigation is expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to such litigation. If we are subject to such litigation, even if we ultimately prevail, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock We have issued Series D Convertible Preferred Stock with rights preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our Common Stock. The exercise of some or all of these Series D Convertible Preferred Stock rights may have a detrimental effect on the rights of the holders of the Common Stock. On September 8, 2009, we closed a private placement Preferred Stock strategic transaction. We sold 23,720,916 shares of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock at $0.43 per share and warrants to purchase 23,720,916 share of Common Stock at $0.65 per share to an investor group that includes certain of our officers and directors in addition to outside investors. In connection with this transaction, the Company converted the principal and accrued interest of certain notes issued by the Company between May 2009 and July 2009 into Series D Convertible Stock. The aggregate principal amount from these cancelled notes was $1,425,000. As the warrants originally contained a full ratchet antidilution provision, we recorded a non-cash warrant liability of approximately $26 million as of September 30, 2009 in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), which resulted in a stockholders’ deficit (negative stockholders’ equity). This, in turn, caused us to fall outside of the NASDAQ Listing Rules which require a minimum of $2,000,000 of stockholders’ equity. 17 We have since remedied the noncompliance with the NASDAQ listing rules by amending the warrants to remove the full ratchet antidilution provision and thus remove the resulting stockholders’ deficit. At December 31, 2009, we no longer carried warrant liabilities on our Statement of Financial Condition. In consideration for such amendment, the Company has agreed to pay the holders of the warrants $0.005 per warrant share in cash, which is anticipated to be paid around August 15, 2010. We believe we are now in full compliance with the NASDAQ minimum shareholders’ equity requirements. The Series D Convertible Preferred Stock has a number of rights, preferences, and privileges that are superior to those of the Common Stock. Holders of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to a 6% annual dividend payable monthly in arrears. As of December 31, 2009, the Company recorded cash dividends payable of $51,000. The Company cannot pay any dividends on the Common Stock until all accrued dividends on the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock are first paid. The holders of Series D Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to a “liquidation preference payment” of $0.43 per share of Series D Convertible Preferred Stock plus all accrued but unpaid dividends on such shares prior and in preference to any payment to holders of the Common Stock upon a merger, acquisition, sale of substantially all the assets, or certain other liquidation events of the Company. Any proceeds after payment of the “liquidation preference payment” shall be paid pro rata to the holders of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock and Common Stock on an as converted to Common Stock basis. As such, holders of Common Stock might receive nothing in liquidation, or receive much less than they would if there were no Series D Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding. The Series D Convertible Preferred Stock has antidilution protection, including a full ratchet provision for certain new issuances of Company Stock, as specified in the Certificate of Designation of Series D Convertible Preferred Stock which is incorporated herein by reference. If such antidilution protection is triggered, the holders of Common Stock may have their ownership in the Company diluted. The holders of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock also have substantial voting power over the Company. Such holders are entitled to elect four of the nine members of our Board of Directors. Additionally, they have certain “protective provisions,” as set forth in the Certificate of Designation, requiring us to obtain their approval before we can carry out certain actions. The holders of Series D Convertible Preferred Stock may gain additional voting power if they exercise the warrants or they acquire shares of our Common Stock in the market. The interests of the holders of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock might not be aligned with those of the holders of Common Stock, which could result in the Company being sold or liquidated in a transaction in which the holders of Common Stock receive little or nothing. 18 In connection with the private placement transaction, we entered into an Investors’ Rights Agreement with the investors. Under the terms of the Investors’ Rights Agreement, if a registration statement relating to the Common Shares underlying the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock and warrants is not declared effective or is not available within time lines provided in the Investors’ Rights Agreement (with certain limited exceptions), then we are required to pay the investors, pro rata, in proportion to the number of shares of Series D Convertible Preferred Stock purchased by such investor in the transaction, five year warrants to purchase 150,000 shares of the Company’s Common Stock at $0.65 per share, on terms identical to those issued to the investors under the financing transaction (the “Registration Warrants”), as liquidated damages and not as penalty, subject to an overall limit of liquidated damages in the aggregated of 900,000 Registration Warrants. The liquidated damages pursuant to the terms hereof shall apply on a daily pro rata basis for any portion of a month prior to securing an effective registration statement. The foregoing shall in no way limit any equitable remedies available to investors for failure to secure an effective registration statement by the time specified in the Investors’ Rights Agreement. Investors shall also be able to pursue monetary damages for failure to secure an effective registration statement by the time specified in the Investors’ Rights Agreement. Investors shall also be able to pursue monetary damages for failure to secure an effective registration statement by the agreed upon time but only if such failure is due to the willful or deliberate action or inaction of the Company in breach of the covenants. Your ownership percentage may be diluted by warrants issued in connection with our convertible notes financing. The investors of the convertible notes issued on May 29, 2009 and June 1, 2009 received warrants to purchase an aggregate of 937,500 shares of the Common Stock of the Company at $0.50 per share. The investor and guarantors of the Note issued on July 31, 2009 received warrants to purchase an aggregate of 2,326,000 shares of the Common Stock of the Company at $0.65 per share. While the convertible notes and the note are no longer outstanding, the warrants issued in conjunction with them are, and exercise of these warrants would dilute the ownership percentage of existing stockholders in the Company. A significant percentage of our outstanding common stock is owned or controlled by our senior professionals and other employees and their interests may differ from those of other shareholders. Our executive officers and directors, and entities affiliated with them, currently control approximately 44% of our outstanding common stock including exercise of their options and D Preferred stock and associated warrants. These stockholders, if they act together, will be able to exercise substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us and might affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions of the organizational documents may discourage an acquisition of us. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to an additional 13,729,083 shares of preferred stock, without approval from our stockholders. This preferred stock, often called “blank check” preferred stock, could have conversion terms that would allow one share of preferred stock to convert into multiple shares of common stock. It could also have voting rights and other rights advantageous to holders of that preferred stock, but disadvantageous to holders of the Company’s common stock. If you hold our common stock, this means that our Board of Directors has the right, without your approval as a common stockholder, to fix the relative rights and preferences of the preferred stock. This would affect your rights as a common stockholder regarding, among other things, dividends and liquidation. We could also use the preferred stock to deter or delay a change in control of our company that may be opposed by our management even if the transaction might be favorable to you as a common stockholder. In addition, the Delaware General Corporation Law contains provisions that may enable our management to retain control and resist our takeover. These provisions generally prevent us from engaging in a broad range of business combinations with an owner of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock for a period of three years from the date that such person acquires his or her stock. Accordingly, these provisions could discourage or make more difficult a change in control or a merger or other type of corporate reorganization even if it could be favorable to the interests of our stockholders. 19 The market price of our common stock may decline. The market price of our common stock has in the past been, and may in the future continue to be, volatile. A variety of events may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including: · variations in quarterly operating results; · announcements of significant contracts, milestones, and acquisitions; · relationships with other companies; · ability to obtain needed capital commitments; · additions or departures of key personnel; · sales of common and preferred stock, conversion of securities convertible into common stock, exercise of options and warrants to purchase common stock, or termination of stock transfer restrictions; · general economic conditions, including conditions in the securities brokerage and investment banking markets; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and · fluctuation in stock market price and trading volume. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Any one of the factors noted herein could have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock. Declines in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain key employees, including our senior professionals. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These market fluctuations have adversely impacted the price of our common stock in the past and may do so in the future. Investor interest in our firm may be diluted due to issuance of additional shares of common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 300,000,000 shares of common stock and to issue options and warrants to purchase shares of our common stock without stockholder approval in certain circumstances. Future issuance of additional shares of our common stock could be at values substantially below the price at which you may purchase our stock and, therefore, could represent substantial dilution. In addition, our Board of Directors could issue large blocks of our common stock to fend off unwanted tender offers or hostile takeovers without further stockholder approval. We have a significant number of outstanding stock options and warrants. During 2009, shares issuable upon the exercise of these options and warrants, at prices ranging currently from approximately $0.50 to $49.00 per share, represent approximately 9% of our total outstanding stock on a fully diluted basis using the treasury stock method. Associated with the strategic transaction we closed in September 2009, we issued a total of 23,720,916 shares of Series D Preferred Stock which may convert, at the holders’ option, to an equal number of common stock. In addition, we issued warrants to purchase 28,755,791 shares of common stock at per share exercisable at the holders’ option. Unrelated to the Series D Preferred Stock transaction, we issued warrants to purchase an additional 1,030,833 shares of common stock in 2009. The Company has a total of 29,023,649 warrants outstanding, with exercise prices from $0.50 to $9.87. 20 The exercise of the outstanding options and warrants would dilute the then-existing stockholders’ percentage ownership of our common stock. Any sales resulting from the exercise of options and warrants in the public market could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Moreover, our ability to obtain additional equity capital could be adversely affected since the holders of outstanding options and warrants may exercise them at a time when we would also wish to enter the market to obtain capital on terms more favorable than those provided by such options and warrants. We lack control over the timing of any exercise or the number of shares issued or sold if exercises occur. Your ability to sell your shares may be restricted because there is a limited trading market for our common stock. Although our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market, we received a notice from Nasdaq that our common stock is not currently in compliance with the requirements of Nasdaq for continued listing which requires a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share. We have 180 days from the date of notification to regain compliance and may be eligible at the end of that period for an additional 180 days to regain compliance. Even if we regain compliance, an active trading market in our stock has been limited. Accordingly, you may not be able to sell your shares when you want or at the price you want. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, our common stock shareholders must rely on sales of their shares of common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on an investment in our common stock. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. If our CEO leaves the Company, additional warrants will be issued, which may further dilute the ownership percentage of the holders of the Company's Common Stock If D. Jonathan Merriman ceases to serve as Chief Executive Officer of the Company prior to August 27, 2012, the Company agreed in connection with the issuance of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock to issue additional warrants (the “Merriman Warrants”) to the holders of the Series D Preferred Stock to purchase shares of the Company’s Common Stock. The Merriman Warrants would be exercisable for a total of 23,720,916 shares of Common Stock, with an exercise price of $0.65 per share and a term of five years. Exercise of the Merriman Warrants would dilute the ownership percentage of existing holders of Common Stock. If Mr. Merriman dies, is terminated without “Cause” or resigns with “Good Reason,” these warrants will not be issuable. “Cause” and “Good Reason” are defined in the Investors Rights Agreement entered into in connection with the issuance of the Series D Preferred Stock, which was filed as Exhibit 10.48 to the Company’s Amended Current Report on Form 8-K/A on September 2, 2009. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 