ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following “risk factors” contain important information about us and our business and should be read in their entirety. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we believe to be immaterial could also impair our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could suffer significantly, and as a result, the market price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business We have had a history of losses. We experienced net losses of $15.6 million, $30.6 million and $65.6 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We cannot predict if we will ever achieve profitability, and if we do, be able to sustain such profitability. Further, we may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including due to the other risks described in this annual report, and we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays and other unknown events. Accordingly, we may not be able to achieve profitability. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health. As of December 31, 2011, we have total indebtedness of approximately $138.1 million (including capital leases). Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our stockholders. For example, it could: ·require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; ·increase our vulnerability to and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; ·place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; ·limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and ·make us more vulnerable to a general economic downturn than a company that is less leveraged. Additionally, the terms governing our debt facilities limit our ability, among other things, to: ·incur additional indebtedness; ·prepay indebtedness; ·repurchase outstanding shares of our common stock; ·sell assets, including capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; ·agree to payment restrictions affecting our restricted subsidiaries; ·consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; ·enter into transactions with our affiliates; ·incur liens; ·declare, pay or make any dividend distributions; and ·guarantee the obligations or liabilities of others. These facilities are secured by a blanket security interest that covers substantially all of our assets. An event of default with respect to these facilities could result in, among other things, the acceleration and demand for payment of all the principal and interest due and the foreclosure on the collateral. As a result of such a default or action against collateral, we may be forced into bankruptcy, which may result in a loss of your investment. 14 Competition in the industries we serve could reduce our market share and impact operating results. We serve markets that are highly competitive and fragmented and in which a large number of multinational companies compete for large, national projects, and an even greater number of small, local businesses compete for smaller, one-time projects. Many of our competitors are well-established and have larger and better developed networks and systems, longer-standing relationships with customers and suppliers, greater name recognition and greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. These competitors can often subsidize competing services with revenues from other sources and may be able to offer their services at lower prices. These or other competitors may also reduce the prices of their services significantly or may offer backhaul connectivity with other services, which could make their services more attractive to customers. Competition may place downward pressure on contract prices and profit margins. Intense competition is expected to continue in these markets and, if we are unable to meet these competitive challenges, we could lose market share to our competitors and experience an overall reduction in our operating performance and financial results. We are vulnerable to the cyclical nature of the telecommunications industry and, specifically, the capital expenditures of the major telecommunications providers. The demand for our outsourced infrastructure services is dependent upon the existence of projects with engineering, procurement, construction and management needs. The wireless telecommunications market, which is one of the industries in which we compete, is particularly cyclical in nature and vulnerable to downturns in the telecommunications industry. During times of economic slowdown, some of our customers reduce their capital expenditures. Further, customers, primarily in our wired and wireless communications subsidiaries, sometimes defer or cancel pending projects. As a result, demand for our services may decline during periods of economic downturns and could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. We generate a substantial portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers and, if our relationships with such customers were harmed, our business would suffer. During the year ended December 31, 2011, our three largest customers, as a percentage of total revenue, were DIRECTV (46%), Comcast (16%) and Verizon Communications (9%). We believe that a limited number of customers will continue to be the source of a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. A key factor in maintaining relationships with such customers is performance on individual contracts and the strength of our professional reputation. To the extent that our performance does not meet customer expectations, or our reputation or relationships with one or more key customers are impaired due to another reason, we may lose future business with such customers, and as a result, our ability to generate income would be adversely impacted. In addition, key customers could slow or stop spending on initiatives related to projects we are performing for them, due to increased difficulty in the credit markets as a result of the recent economic crisis or other reasons. Since many of our customer contracts allow our customers to terminate the contract without cause, our customers may terminate their contracts with us at will and materially impair our operating results. If we are unable to recruit and retain key managers and employees, and to manage the current transition within our executive leadership, our business may be adversely affected. We depend on the services of our executive officers and the senior management of our subsidiaries. Our management team has substantial experience in our industry; the loss of any of them could negatively affect our ability to execute our business strategy. In addition, we have recently experienced management changes, with our former Executive Chairman of the Board and our former Chief Executive Officer leaving their positions in early 2012, and there are expenses and challenges related to our current efforts to identify a candidate to serve as our permanent chief executive officer, including the risk that the permanent chief executive officer’s transition to the role may be slower or more difficult than we anticipate. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot guarantee that any key management personnel will remain employed by us. In addition, the services we deliver to our customers could be delayed or interrupted if we are unable to attract, train and retain highly skilled employees, particularly, fulfillment installation and wireless technicians. Competition for these employees is intense. Because of the complex and technical nature of some of our services, any failure to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could materially harm our business. 15 We maintain a workforce based upon current and anticipated workloads. If we do not receive future contract awards or if these awards are delayed, we may incur significant costs in adjusting our workforce demands. Our estimates of future performance depend on, among other matters, whether and when we will receive certain new contract awards. While our estimates are based upon good faith judgment, they can be unreliable and may frequently change based on newly available information. In the case of larger projects, where timing is often uncertain, it is particularly difficult to project whether and when we will receive a contract award. The uncertainty of contract award timing can present difficulties in matching workforce size with contractual needs. If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, we could incur significant costs resulting from retaining more staff than is necessary or redundancy of facilities. Similarly, if we underestimate the workforce necessary for a contract, we may not perform at the level expected by the customer and harm our reputation with the customer. Each of these may negatively impact our operating performance and financial results. We recognize revenue for fixed-price construction contracts using the percentage-of-completion method; therefore, variations of actual results from our assumptions may reduce our profitability. We recognize revenue and profit on certain of our wireless construction contracts as the work progresses using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Under this method of accounting, contracts in progress are valued at cost plus accrued profits less invoiced revenue and progress payments made on uncompleted projects. This method relies on estimates of total expected contract revenue and costs. Contract revenue and total cost estimates are reviewed and revised monthly by management as the work progresses, such that adjustments to profit resulting from revisions are made cumulative to the date of revision. Adjustments are reflected for the fiscal period affected by such revisions. If estimates of costs to complete long-term projects indicate a loss, we immediately recognize the full amount of the estimated loss. Such adjustments and accrued losses may negatively impact our operating results. If our customers perform more tasks themselves, our business will suffer. Our success also depends upon the continued trend by our customers to outsource their network design, deployment, project management and fulfillment service needs. If this trend does not continue or is reversed and telecommunication service providers and network equipment vendors elect to perform more of these tasks themselves, our operating results may be adversely affected due to the decline in the demand for our services. We may require additional capital to fund our operations and obligations. As of December 31, 2011, we had cash balances and availability under existing credit facilities of approximately $14.6 million. We may need to raise additional funds to continue to fund our operations and obligations as well as to fund potential acquisitions. Our capital requirements will depend on several factors, including: ·our ability to enter into new agreements with customers or to extend the terms of our existing agreements with customers, and the terms of such agreements; ·the success rate of our sales efforts; ·costs of recruiting and retaining qualified personnel; ·expenditures and investments to implement our business strategy; and ·the identification and successful completion of acquisitions. We may seek additional funds through public and private securities offerings and/or borrowings under lines of credit or other sources. Our inability to raise adequate funds to support the growth of our business would adversely affect our business. If we cannot raise additional capital, we may have to implement one or more of the following remedies: ·curtail internal growth initiatives; ·forgo the pursuit of acquisitions; and/or ·reduce capital expenditures. We do not know whether additional financing will be available on commercially acceptable terms when needed, if at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on commercially acceptable terms, our ability to fund our operations or otherwise respond to competitive pressures could be significantly delayed or limited. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to our stockholders could result, and new investors could have rights superior to those of our existing stockholders. Any equity securities issued also may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, these debt securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. 16 If we experience material delays and/or defaults in customer payments, we may be unable to cover all expenditures related to such customer’s projects. Because of the nature of some of our contracts, we commit resources to projects prior to receiving payments from our customers in amounts sufficient to cover expenditures as they are incurred. Delays in customer payments may require us to make a working capital investment or obtain advances from our line of credit. If a customer defaults in making its payments on a project or projects to which we have devoted significant resources, it could have a material negative effect on our results of operations and negatively impact the financial covenants with our lenders. The nature of our construction businesses exposes us to potential liability claims and contract disputes that may negatively affect our results of operations. We engage in construction activities, including engineering and oversight of engineering firms. Design, construction or systems failures can result in substantial injury or damage to third parties. Any liability in excess of insurance limits at locations constructed by us could result in significant liability claims against us, which claims may negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, if there is a customer dispute regarding performance of project services, the customer may decide to delay or withhold payment to us. If we are ultimately unable to collect on these payments, our results of operations would be negatively impacted. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly results relating to our ability to generate additional revenue and manage expenditures and other factors, some of which are outside of our control, which could cause rapid declines in our stock price. Our quarterly operating results have varied considerably in the past, and may continue to do so, due to a number of factors. Many of these factors are outside of our control and include, without limitation, the following: ·our ability to attract new customers, retain existing customers and increase sales to such customers; ·the commencement, progress, completion or termination of contracts during any particular quarter; ·the cyclical nature of the telecommunications industry; ·the cost of raw materials we require for our projects; and ·satellite television, broadband cable and telecommunications market conditions and economic conditions generally. Due to these factors and others, our results for a particular quarter, and therefore, our combined results for the affected year, may not meet the expectations of investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly. Our backlog is subject to reduction and potential cancellation. Our backlog consists of uncompleted portions of services to be performed under job-specific contracts and the estimated value of future services that we expect to provide under master service agreements and other long-term contracts. Many of our contracts are multi-year agreements. We include in our backlog the amount of services projected to be performed over the terms of the contracts, where applicable, or based on our historical experience with customers and our experience in procurements of this type. In many instances, our customers are not contractually committed to procure specific volumes of services under a contract. Our estimates of backlog and a customer’s requirements during a particular future period may not prove to be accurate. If our estimated backlog is significantly inaccurate, this could adversely affect our financial results and the price of our common stock. The failure to successfully identify or integrate acquisitions could result in a reduction of our operating results, cash flows and liquidity. We have made, and in the future may continue to make, strategic acquisitions. Acquisitions may expose us to operational challenges and risks, including: ·the ability to profitably manage additional businesses or successfully integrate acquired business operations and financial reporting and accounting control systems into our business; ·increased indebtedness and contingent purchase price obligations associated with an acquisition; 17 ·the ability to fund cash flow shortages that may occur if anticipated revenue is not realized or is delayed, whether by general economic or market conditions, or unforeseen internal difficulties; ·the availability of funding sufficient to meet increased capital needs; and ·diversion of management’s attention. We may not successfully identify suitable acquisitions in the future, and in the event we do commence such a transaction, the failure to successfully consummate the acquisition or manage the operational challenges and risks associated with the acquisition following the consummation could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. We may incur goodwill and other intangible impairment charges which could reduce our profitability. Pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP, we are required to annually assess our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles to determine if they are impaired. In addition, interim reviews must be performed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill or other intangible assets and the implied fair value of the goodwill or other intangible assets in the period the determination is made. Disruptions to our business, end market conditions, protracted economic weakness and unexpected significant declines in operating results may result in charges for goodwill and other asset impairments. We assess the potential impairment of goodwill on an annual basis, as well as when interim events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We assess definite-lived intangible assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Our annual goodwill impairment test as of October 4, 2009 resulted in a determination that the carrying value of the telecommunications reporting unit exceeded its fair value and was therefore impaired. We also completed a 2009 impairment test of our long-lived assets at that date for the telecommunications reporting unit. The results of the impairment testing caused us to recognize a non-cash asset impairment charge of $38.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. We performed our required annual goodwill impairment test as of October 2, 2011 and October 3, 2010, and there was no impairment identified for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. However, future impairments could further reduce our profitability. We performed our required annual impairment test as of October 2, 2011. While there were no impairments identified, one reporting unit had a decline in the excess of fair value as compared to carrying value due to the short term impact of lower revenue. The current estimated fair value of the reporting unit is supported by projected growth in revenue from existing customers and overall predicted market spending. Should this growth in revenue not materialize as expected, the fair value could decline further and this reporting unit will be at a greater risk for a future impairment of goodwill. The reporting unit’s fair value exceeded the corresponding carrying value by less than 5%. The reporting unit’s goodwill at December 31, 2011 is approximately $25.5 million. Legal proceedings and other claims could reduce our profitability, cash flows and liquidity. We are subject to various claims, lawsuits and proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of business. These actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers’ compensation, employment discrimination, wage and hour disputes, breach of contract, property damage, consequential and punitive damages, civil penalties, or injunctive or declaratory relief. In addition, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide. Claimants may seek large damage awards. Defending these claims can involve significant legal costs. When appropriate, we establish reserves for litigation and claims that we believe to be adequate in light of current information, legal advice and professional indemnity insurance coverage, and we adjust such reserves from time to time according to developments. If reserves are inadequate, insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable, or there is an increase in liabilities for which we self-insure, we could experience a reduction in our profitability and liquidity. An adverse determination on any such claim or lawsuit could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Separately, claims and lawsuits alleging wrongdoing or negligence by us may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business. The impact of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) is uncertain. The recent economic downturn, coupled with a lack of available capital, resulted in uncertainty, with numerous projects being delayed or canceled. While we believe that the ARRA, which was enacted into law in February 2009, should aid telecommunications and rural broadband market opportunities, the extent to which it will result in future revenues is uncertain. We cannot predict when programs under the ARRA will be implemented, or the timing and scope of investments to be made under these programs. Investments for telecommunications projects and rural broadband facilities under ARRA programs may not occur, may be less than anticipated or may be delayed, which would negatively impact demand for our services. 18 Government regulations may adversely affect our business. Our customers are subject to various regulations of the FCC and other international regulations. These regulations require that these networks meet certain radio frequency emission standards and not cause interference to other services, and in some cases accept interference from other services. FCC regulations could cause our customers to slow down or delay development and deployment plans for network build outs, which could impact our financial results. Significant shortages in fuel supply or increases in fuel prices will increase our operating expenses and therefore adversely affect our results of operations. The price and supply of fuel are unpredictable, and can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. Recently, the costs of gasoline, diesel fuel and other petroleum based fuel products have been volatile. We purchase fuel to run our fleet of trucks and equipment used in our operations and as fuel prices increase, our direct operation expenses increase. We may implement a fuel surcharge program or receive additional fuel charge concessions from our customers designed to offset increased fuel expenses; however, these are not guaranteed and may not fully offset the increased costs associated with rising fuel prices. We do not currently engage in fuel hedging transactions or purchase gasoline or fuel future contracts in an effort to mitigate the risk of future fuel price increases. While we may in the future initiate such programs, there can be no assurances that we will be able to do so or that any such programs will be successful. We maintain a high-deductible liability insurance program, which exposes us to a substantial portion of the costs of claims and lawsuits. Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to automobile liability, general liability, workers’ compensation and employee group health claims, those policies are subject to high deductibles. Because most claims against us do not exceed the deductibles under our insurance policies, we are effectively self-insured for substantially all claims. We determine any liabilities for unpaid claims and associated expenses, including incurred but not reported losses, and reflect the undiscounted value of those liabilities in our balance sheet as other current liabilities. The determination of such claims and expenses and the appropriateness of the related liability is reviewed and updated quarterly. However, insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to the many relevant factors, including the severity of an injury or legitimacy of a claim and the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties. If our insurance claims increase or costs exceed our estimates of insurance liabilities, we may experience a decline in operating results and liquidity. Increases in our insurance premiums or collateral requirements could significantly reduce our profitability, liquidity and availability under our credit facilities. Because of factors such as increases in claims, projected significant increases in medical costs and wages, lost compensation and reductions in coverage, insurance carriers may be unwilling to continue to provide us with our current levels of coverage without a significant increase in insurance premiums or collateral requirements to cover our deductible obligations. An increase in premiums or collateral requirements could significantly reduce our profitability and liquidity as well as reduce availability under our credit facilities. Our operating results can be negatively affected by weather conditions. We perform most of our services outdoors. Adverse weather conditions may affect productivity in performing services or may temporarily prevent us from performing services for our customers. The effect of weather delays on projects that are under fixed-price arrangements may be greater if we are unable to adjust the project schedule for such delays. A reduction in productivity in any given period or our inability to meet guaranteed schedules may adversely affect the profitability of our projects. We bear the risk of cost overruns in some of our contracts. We conduct our business under varying contractual arrangements, some of which are long-term and generate recurring revenue at agreed upon pricing. Certain of our contracts have prices that are established, in part, based on cost and scheduling estimates which are based on a number of assumptions, including, without limitation, assumptions about future economic conditions, prices and availability of labor, prices of equipment and materials and other variables. These assumptions are made more difficult to ascertain by the current uncertainty in the capital markets and the wide fluctuation in prices for equipment, fuel and other costs associated with our services. If cost assumptions prove inaccurate or circumstances change, cost overruns may occur and, as a result, we may experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for those projects affected. 19 A lack of effective internal controls could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to provide accurate and timely financial reports. Our business and our share price may be adversely affected if we do not properly identify or remediate any deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls. Beginning with our 2011 fiscal year end, we are required to provide a report by our independent registered public accounting firm as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Although we continually review and evaluate internal control systems to allow management to report on the sufficiency of our internal controls, we cannot assure you that we will not discover weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Any such additional weakness or failure to remediate the existing weakness could materially affect our financial condition or ability to comply with applicable financial reporting requirements. Risks Related to our Company and our Common Stock Our historic stock price has been volatile and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Historically, our stock price has been volatile. The stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, investors may not be able to sell our common stock at or above their respective purchase prices. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including, but not limited to, variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us, investors’ perceptions of us, the number of our shares available in the market, future sales of our common stock and securities convertible into our common stock, and general economic, industry and market conditions. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our Company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our share price and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Further, in the past, market fluctuations and price declines in a company’s stock have led to securities class action litigations. If such a suit were to arise, it could have a substantial cost and divert our resources regardless of the outcome. There may be a lack of a public market for our shares, which limits our stockholders’ ability to sell their shares. Our common stock is currently quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market. Prior to listing of our stock on the NASDAQ Global Market in 2010, trading of our common stock was light and sporadic. Although we anticipate that the listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market will continue to provide for a more liquid trading market for our shares of common stock, we can provide no assurances that an active market for our common stock will develop or that we will be able to maintain the listing standards of the exchange. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that we will retain all of our future earnings for use in the development of our business and for general corporate purposes. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investments. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our Company or changes in our management and, as a result, depress the trading price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, or Charter, and our amended and restated bylaws, or Bylaws, contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our Company may deem advantageous. These provisions: ·establish a classified Board of Directors so that not all members of our Board are elected at one time; ·require prior approval by a special committee of our Board of Directors, or the Special Committee, of any action which would amend or in any way modify our Charter or Bylaws, among other actions; ·authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our Board of Directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt; ·establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings: and. 20 ·provide that the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to adopt, or to alter or repeal our Bylaws. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, which, subject to some exceptions, prohibits “business combinations” between a Delaware corporation and an “interested stockholder,” which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation’s voting stock, for a three-year period following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our Company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take corporate actions other than those you desire. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our share price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities may dilute your ownership in us and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We and substantially all of our stockholders may sell additional shares of common stock in subsequent public offerings. We may also issue additional shares of common stock or convertible debt securities to finance future acquisitions. As of December 31, 2011, we have approximately 16.3 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 