ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be carefully considered in evaluating our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us. Although we believe that we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that we do not currently believe to be significant that may adversely affect our future performance or financial condition. In addition, more detailed information regarding various risks and uncertainties facing us are included under Items 1 and 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Solely for purposes of the risk factors in this Item 1A, the terms “Company,” “we,” “our,” and “us” refer to UniTek Global Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries Risks Related to Investing in our Common Stock and to our Business Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health. As of December 31, 2012, our total indebtedness, including capital lease obligations, was approximately $170 million. This amount has increased to approximately $210 million as of August 9, 2013, including amounts borrowed to cash collateralize letters of credit. Our current debt also bears interest at rates significantly higher than historical periods. See Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our stockholders. It will require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. In addition, it could: · increase our vulnerability to and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; · prevent us to engage in acquisitions, internal expansion efforts or other strategic and business development initiatives; · limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and · make us more vulnerable to a general economic downturn than a company that is less leveraged. An event of default under either of our credit facilities could result in, among other things, the acceleration and demand for payment of all the principal and interest due and the foreclosure on the collateral. As a result of such a default or action against collateral, we could be forced to enter into bankruptcy proceedings, which may result in a partial or complete loss of your investment. Our debt agreements contain financial covenants that may be difficult to satisfy. We have entered into new debt agreements that contain financial covenants requiring us to satisfy certain levels of earnings, ratios concerning earnings compared to total debt and limitations on total allowable debt. Satisfying such covenants may be difficult if our operations do not generate sufficient cash and earnings. If we do not satisfy the covenants, it would result in an event of default and we may not be able to cure the default, which could have substantial adverse impacts on us, including without limitation the acceleration by our lenders of their indebtedness. We have had a history of losses. We experienced net losses of $77.7 million, $9.1 million and $30.6 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We cannot predict if we will ever achieve profitability, and if we do, be able to sustain such profitability. Further, we may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including due to the other risks described in this Form 10-K, and we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays and other unknown events. Accordingly, we may not ever be able to achieve profitability. Our past failure to file reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q in a timely manner will result in our ineligibility to register securities on Form S-3. As a result of our failure to timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2013 and June 29, 2013, we will be ineligible to register our securities on Form S-3 for sale by us or resale by others until we have timely filed all periodic reports under the Exchange Act, as amended, for a period of twelve months and any portion of a month from the due date of the last untimely report. The need to use other forms, such as Form S-1, to register our securities could increase transaction costs and adversely affect our ability to raise capital, and could render our use of our securities to complete acquisitions less attractive to potential sellers. Accordingly, our ability to raise additional capital and to grow through acquisitions may be limited. 12 Table of Contents We will have incurred and will continue to incur substantial expenses relating to the Audit Committee Investigation for lawyers, investigators and interim financial staff and may continue to have increased exposure to contingent liabilities because of historical improper accounting practices identified by our Audit Committee Investigation. As described in the Explanatory Note immediately preceding Part I, Item 1, and in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, our Audit Committee conducted an investigation into the improper recognition of revenue using percentage of completion accounting with the assistance of independent legal counsel and other independent professional staff. Certain senior executives were terminated and we have had to rely on consultants to supplement our financial staff. To date, we have incurred over $6.0 million on such expenses including incremental audit fees. In addition, our expenses for legal counsel are expected to increase due to recent litigation relating to disclosure made by us regarding our improper accounting practices on April 12, 2013. We also reported to the SEC the results of the Audit Committee Investigation. We may be subject to enforcement actions as a result of such events, which may impact us adversely. We may also be the subject of other regulatory or enforcement actions. No assurance can be given regarding the outcomes from any litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions. The conduct of the investigation has been, and the resolution of any such matters may be time consuming, expensive, and may distract management from the conduct of our business. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in an individual quarter or annual period. Our stock may no longer trade on the NASDAQ Stock Market which may limit the liquidity of our common stock. On April 16, 2013, we received a letter from the NASDAQ Stock Market stating that we were not in compliance with the continued listing requirements of NASDAQ Listing Rules because we did not timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. NASDAQ subsequently granted the Company an October 14, 2013 deadline for the filing of the Form 10-K and other reports. We have received similar notices with respect to our failure to file our Quarterly Reports on form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended March 30, 2013 and June 29, 2013. We cannot guarantee that we will become compliant before the deadline. If we are delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market, investors may experience a reduced ability to sell shares of our common stock that they hold or purchase shares. We generate a substantial portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers and, if our relationships with such customers were harmed, it is unlikely that we could continue in business. During the year ended December 31, 2012, our three largest customers as a percentage of revenues were DIRECTV (43%), AT&T (17%) and Comcast (15%). Our contracts with our major customers give our customers the right to either terminate their contract, or reduce the amount of work that we will perform under their contract, on relatively short notice, with or without cause. During fiscal 2013, we received a letter from DIRECTV providing 180-day notice of the termination of its master services agreement with us. DIRECTV agreed to withdraw the notice of termination upon our satisfaction of certain conditions and, following satisfaction of these conditions in July 2013, DIRECTV withdrew its notice of termination. AT&T has reduced the amount of work that we will be performing; the impact of which is expected to be approximately $21 million in revenue. If these or other customers terminate their contracts with us or reduce the amount of work that we will perform under the contract, it could materially reduce our operating results. We believe that we will continue to be at risk because a limited number of customers will continue to be the source of a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. A key factor in maintaining relationships with such customers is performance on individual contracts and the strength of our professional reputation. To the extent that our performance does not meet customer expectations, or our reputation or relationships with one or more key customers are impaired due to another reason, we may lose future business with such customers, and as a result, our ability to generate income would be adversely impacted. Our construction and construction-related contracts, and the accounting for those contracts, depend upon significant judgments and estimates that may differ from actual results in future periods. The pricing of our construction and construction-related contracts is established, in part, based on cost and scheduling estimates. Such estimates, in turn, are based on a number of other assumptions, including future economic conditions, prices and availability of labor, prices of equipment and materials and other variables. These assumptions can be difficult to ascertain because of the wide fluctuation in prices for equipment, fuel and other costs associated with our services. If pricing or cost estimates prove to be incorrect, we may incur cost overruns and incur losses on contracts which would reduce our profitability. Our accounting for those contracts relies heavily upon those same estimates and judgments, as well other judgments and estimates, including estimates of progress toward completion, judgments about whether we can recover costs related to change orders from our customers, and estimates of the fair value of non-construction related products or services that may be bundled into a construction contract. If our accounting estimates ultimately prove to be incorrect, our profitability could be more volatile during the contract period or be reduced, or both. 13 Table of Contents We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, because management estimates, by their nature, involve judgment regarding future uncertainties, actual results may differ from those estimates if conditions change or if the assumptions used in making these estimates ultimately prove to be incorrect. As described in the Explanatory Note appearing at the beginning of this Form 10-K, certain of our estimates related to revenue recognition were identified as containing errors as part of our restatement and materially reduced our results of operations. Our results of operations could be materially reduced again if future changes in our estimates and judgments are required. Our disclosure controls and procedures were determined to be deficient as of December 31, 2012, due to material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and our inability to timely file periodic reports with the SEC. These material weaknesses result in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements would not be prevented or detected. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and SEC rules require that management report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures. Among other things, management must conduct an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to audit, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Based on our management’s assessment, we believe that, as of December 31, 2012, our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective. The specific material weaknesses are described in Item 9A of this Form 10-K “Management’s Report On Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.” These material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting result in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements would not be prevented or detected. We cannot assure you that our efforts to remediate these material weaknesses will be successful or that additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial report will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses, or could result in material misstatements in our financial statements. These misstatements could result in a restatement of our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. For more information relating to our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, and remediation efforts undertaken by us, see Part III, Item 9A of this Form 10-K. We may incur goodwill and other intangible impairment charges which could reduce our profitability. The profitability of individual reporting units or other assets may suffer periodically from downturns in customer demand and other factors resulting from the cyclical nature of our business, the high level of competition existing within our industry, the concentration of our revenues within a limited number of customers, and the level of overall economic activity. During times of economic slowdown, our customers may reduce their capital expenditures and defer or cancel pending projects. Individual reporting units may be relatively more impacted by these factors than our company as a whole. As a result, demand for the services of one or more of our reporting units could decline resulting in an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets. We review our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually or more often if an event occurs or circumstances change which indicates that their carrying amount may not exceed their fair value. We review other long-lived assets, consisting primarily of property and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives, for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. Should any of these tests result in an impairment, we could recognize a charge that would materially reduce our results of operations. During the third quarter of 2012, we committed to a plan to sell the net assets of our wireline telecommunications business unit (the “Wireline Group”) which resulted in the performance of interim tests of impairment. As a result of those tests, we impaired property and equipment by $2.2 million and goodwill by $33.0 million. We performed our most recent annual goodwill impairment test as of September 30, 2012, the first day of our fourth fiscal quarter. When we performed our annual goodwill impairment test, we determined that the fair value of the wireless reporting unit exceeded the carrying value. Accordingly, we performed the second step in the analysis and determined that the carrying amount of our goodwill exceeded its implied fair value, and we recognized an impairment loss in an amount equal to that excess. In the fourth quarter of 2012, the carrying value of goodwill for the wireless reporting unit exceeded its implied fair value and we recorded a non-cash, pre-tax impairment charge of $14.9 million. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to “close-out” our projects, we are unable to bill our customers. Our business requires us to expend substantial amounts of money on a project prior to being paid by our customers. In order to receive payment, we are required to comply with a “close-out” process which can be time-consuming and complex. If we are unable to timely “close-out” our projects, we are unable to bill our customers for costs that have already been expended, which negatively impacts our liquidity situation. If we are unable to recruit and retain key managers and employees, our business may be adversely affected. As a result of the Audit Committee Investigation, a number of senior executives were terminated. In addition, certain corporate staff members have left our company because of the uncertainty caused by the Audit Committee Investigation. As a result, we have had to rely on a number of consultants for corporate positions. We depend on the senior management of our subsidiaries; the loss of any of them could negatively affect our ability to execute our business strategy. Although we have entered into employment agreements with certain of our executive officers, we cannot guarantee that any key management personnel will remain employed by us. In addition, the services we deliver to our customers could be delayed or interrupted if we are unable to attract, train and retain highly skilled employees or subcontractors, particularly fulfillment installation and wireless technicians. Competition for these technicians is intense. Because of the complex and technical nature of some of our services, any failure to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could materially harm our business. We maintain a workforce based upon current and anticipated workloads. If we do not receive future contract awards or if these awards are delayed, we may incur significant costs in adjusting our workforce demands. Our estimates of future performance depend on, among other matters, whether and when we will receive certain new contract awards. While our estimates are based upon good faith judgment, they can be unreliable and may frequently change based on newly available information. In the case of larger projects, where timing is often uncertain, it is particularly difficult to project whether and when we will receive a contract award. The uncertainty of contract award timing can present difficulties in matching workforce size with contractual needs. If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, we could incur significant costs resulting from retaining more staff than is necessary or redundancy of facilities. Similarly, if we underestimate the workforce necessary for a contract, we may not perform at the level expected by the customer and harm our reputation. Each of these may negatively impact our operating performance and financial results. If we are unable to meet our customer’s billing requirements, or if our customers delay or default on their payments to us, we may be unable to cover our expenditures related to those projects. Because of the nature of some of our contracts, we commit resources to projects prior to receiving payments from our customers in amounts sufficient to cover expenditures as they are incurred. Delays in customer payments may require us to make a working capital investment or obtain advances from our line of credit. If a customer defaults in making its payments on a project or projects to which we have devoted significant resources, it could have a material negative effect on our results of operations and negatively impact the financial covenants with our lenders. Our estimated future revenue is subject to reduction and potential cancellation. Our estimated future revenue consists of uncompleted portions of services to be performed under job-specific contracts and the estimated value of future services that we expect to provide under master service agreements and other contracts., which in most cases can be terminated or cancelled on short notice, with or without cause. We include in our estimate of future revenue the amount of services projected to be performed based on our historical experience with customers and our experience in procurements of this type. In many instances, our customers are not contractually committed to procure specific volumes of services under a contract. Our estimates of future revenue and a customer’s requirements during a particular future period may not prove to be accurate. If our estimated future revenue is significantly inaccurate, this could adversely affect our financial results and the price of our common stock. 15 Table of Contents Provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, as a result, depress the trading price of our common stock. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, or Charter, and our Amended and Restated Bylaws, or Bylaws, contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions: · establish a classified Board of Directors so that not all members of our Board are elected at one time; · authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our Board of Directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt; · establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings: and. · provide that the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to adopt, or to alter or repeal our Bylaws. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, which, subject to some exceptions, prohibits “business combinations” between a Delaware corporation and an “interested stockholder,” which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation’s voting stock, for a three-year period following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take corporate actions other than those you desire. If our customers perform more tasks themselves, our business will suffer. Our success also depends upon the continued trend by our customers to outsource their network design, deployment, project management and fulfillment service needs. If this trend does not continue or is reversed and telecommunication service providers and network equipment vendors elect to perform more of these tasks themselves or provide kits for their customers to self-install, our operating results may be adversely affected due to the decline in the demand for our services. The nature of our construction businesses exposes us to potential liability claims and contract disputes that may negatively affect our results of operations. We engage in construction activities, including engineering and oversight of engineering firms. Design, construction or systems failures can result in substantial injury or damage to third parties. Any liability in excess of insurance limits at locations constructed by us could result in significant liability claims against us, which claims may negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, if there is a customer dispute regarding performance of project services, the customer may decide to delay or withhold payment to us. If we are ultimately unable to collect on these payments, our results of operations would be negatively impacted. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly results relating to our ability to generate additional revenue and manage expenditures and other factors, some of which are outside of our control, which could cause rapid declines in our stock price. Our quarterly operating results have varied considerably in the past, and may continue to do so, due to a number of factors. Many of these factors are outside of our control and include, without limitation, the following: · our ability to attract new customers, retain existing customers and increase sales to such customers; · the commencement, progress, completion or termination of contracts during any particular quarter; · the cyclical nature of the telecommunications industry; · the cost of raw materials we require for our projects; and · satellite television, broadband cable and wireless telecommunications market conditions and economic conditions generally. Due to these factors and others, our results for a particular quarter, and therefore, our combined results for the affected year, may not meet the expectations of investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly. 16 Table of Contents Legal proceedings and other claims could reduce our profitability, cash flows and liquidity. There has been a consolidated class action law suit filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against us and certain of our current and former officers entitled In Re Unitek Global Services, Inc. Securities Litigation, Civil Action NO. 13-2119. The case alleges that we made misstatements and omissions regarding our business, our financial condition and our internal controls and systems in violation of the Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. We also reported to the SEC the results of the Audit Committee Investigation. We may be subject to enforcement actions as a result of such events, which may impact us adversely. In addition, we are subject to various claims, lawsuits and proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. These actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers’ compensation, employment discrimination, wage and hour disputes, breach of contract, property damage, consequential and punitive damages, civil penalties, or injunctive or declaratory relief. In addition, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide. Claimants may seek large damage awards. If not covered by insurance, defending claims against us can involve significant legal costs. When appropriate, we establish reserves for litigation and claims that we believe to be adequate in light of current information, legal advice and professional indemnity insurance coverage, and we adjust such reserves from time to time according to developments. If reserves are inadequate, insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable, or there is an increase in liabilities for which we self-insure, we could experience a reduction in our profitability and liquidity. An adverse determination on any such claim or lawsuit could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Separately, claims and lawsuits alleging wrongdoing or negligence by us may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business. We maintain high-deductible liability insurance policies, which exposes us to a substantial portion of the costs of claims and lawsuits. We maintain high-deductible insurance policies for workers’ compensation, general liability, automobile, medical and dental claims. Because most claims against us do not exceed our deductibles, we are effectively self-insured for substantially all claims. We establish insurance reserves for estimates of the loss that we will ultimately incur on reported claims and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. Our insurance reserves incorporate historical loss experience and judgments about the present and expected levels of cost per claim. Trends in actual experience are a significant factor in the determination of such reserves. We update our estimates and the appropriateness of our reserves quarterly based upon known facts, historical trends and our judgments regarding future claims. Insurance claims may take several years to completely settle. Consequently, actuarial estimates are required to project the ultimate cost that will be incurred to fully resolve the claims. A number of factors can affect the actual cost of a claim, including the length of time the claim remains open, trends in health care costs and the results of related litigation. Furthermore, claims may emerge in future years for events that occurred in a prior year at a rate that differs from previous actuarial projections. We believe that our estimated reserves for such claims are adequate, but actual experience in claim frequency and / or severity could materially differ from our estimates and affect our results of operations and liquidity. We may not be allowed to renew our casualty insurance coverage after September 30, 2013 on satisfactory terms. Our casualty insurance coverage expires on September 30, 2013. If our financial position worsens, we may not be able to obtain a policy that will provide coverage after October 1, 2013 on substantially similar terms as the current policy. If we need to access the secondary market for such insurance, it may result in a significant increase in premiums or usage of liquidity. Government regulations may adversely affect our business. Our customers are subject to various regulations of the FCC and other international regulations. These regulations require that networks meet certain radio frequency emission standards and not cause interference to other services, and in some cases accept interference from other services. FCC regulations could cause our customers to slow down or delay development and deployment plans for network build outs, which could impact our financial results. 17 Table of Contents Significant shortages in fuel supply or increases in fuel prices will increase our operating expenses and therefore adversely affect our results of operations. The price and supply of fuel are unpredictable, and can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. Recently, the costs of gasoline, diesel fuel and other petroleum based fuel products have been volatile. We purchase fuel to run our fleet of trucks and equipment used in our operations, and as fuel prices increase, our operating expenses increase. We may implement a fuel surcharge program or receive additional fuel charge concessions from our customers designed to offset increased fuel expenses; however, these are not guaranteed and may not fully offset the increased costs associated with rising fuel prices. We do not currently engage in fuel hedging transactions or purchase gasoline or fuel future contracts in an effort to mitigate the risk of future fuel price increases. While we may in the future initiate such programs, there can be no assurances that we will be able to do so or that any such programs will be successful. Increases in our insurance premiums or collateral requirements, such as construction bonds or letters of credit, could significantly reduce our profitability, liquidity and availability under our credit facilities. Because of factors such as increases in claims, projected significant increases in medical costs and wages, lost compensation and reductions in coverage, insurance carriers may be unwilling to continue to provide us with our current levels of coverage without a significant increase in insurance premiums or collateral requirements to cover our deductible obligations. An increase in premiums or collateral requirements could significantly reduce our profitability and liquidity as well as reduce availability under our credit facilities. Our operating results can be negatively affected by weather conditions. We perform most of our services outdoors. Adverse weather conditions may affect productivity in performing services or may temporarily prevent us from performing services for our customers. The effect of weather delays on projects that are under fixed-price arrangements may be greater if we are unable to adjust the project schedule for such delays. A reduction in productivity in any given period or our inability to meet guaranteed schedules may adversely affect the profitability of our projects. Risks Related to Our Industry Changes in technology or consumer preferences and demand could weraken our competitiveness in the marketplace We are dependent upon meeting the demands of our customers and the public. New technologies are rapidly being developed to enhance the public’s entertainment experience. There can be no assurance that our major customers’ products will continue to be popular or if our major customers adopt new technologies, that we will will have the skill set to be able to deploy such technologies.. Competition in the industries we serve could reduce our market share and impact operating results. We serve markets that are competitive and highly fragmented and in which a large number of multinational companies compete for large, national projects, and an even greater number of small, local businesses compete for smaller, one-time projects. Many of our competitors are well-established and have larger and better developed networks and systems, longer-standing relationships with customers and suppliers, greater name recognition and greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. These competitors can often subsidize competing services with revenues from other sources and may be able to offer their services at lower prices. These or other competitors may also reduce the prices of their services significantly or may offer backhaul connectivity with other services, which could make their services more attractive to customers. Competition may place downward pressure on contract prices and profit margins. Intense competition is expected to continue in these markets and, if we are unable to meet these competitive challenges, we could lose market share to our competitors and experience an overall reduction in our operating performance and financial results. We are vulnerable to the cyclical nature of the telecommunications industry and, specifically, the capital expenditures of the major telecommunications providers. The demand for our outsourced infrastructure services is dependent upon the existence of projects with engineering, procurement, construction and management needs. The wireless telecommunications market, which is one of the industries in which we compete, is particularly cyclical in nature and vulnerable to downturns in the telecommunications industry. During times of economic slowdown, some of our customers reduce their capital expenditures. Further, customers, primarily in our wireless communications subsidiaries, sometimes defer or cancel pending projects. As a result, demand for our services may decline during periods of economic downturns and could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 