ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We may need additional working capital, the lack of which would likely have a significant negative impact on our ability to grow our business. Although we have increased our current working capital, we may require additional working capital in order to fund the growth of our operations. If adequate funds are not available on terms acceptable to us, we may not be able to effectively grow our operations and expand our business. Our ability to fund our operations and corporate infrastructure is directly related to the continued availability of these and other funding sources. 6 Table of Contents In order to grow our business, we may incur significant operating, borrowing and other costs. Should our operations require additional funding or our capital requirements exceed current estimates, we could be required to seek additional financing in the future. We can provide no assurances that we would be able to raise such financing when needed or on acceptable terms. As a result, we may be forced to reduce or delay additional expenditures or otherwise delay, curtail or discontinue some or all of our operations. Further, if we are able to access additional capital through borrowings, such debt would increase our debt obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation or cash flows. Old Berliner has had a history of losses and may never achieve sustained profitability. Although we had net income during the year ended June 30, 2006, we may not be profitable in future periods, either on a short or long-term basis. Prior to our most recent year end, Old Berliner had historically incurred net losses. Old Berliner incurred a net loss of approximately $836,800 and $1.2 million for 2004 and the six months ended June 30, 2005, respectively. Although Old Berliner did have net income of $5.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, it was primarily the result of a gain on the extinguishment of a debt of $7.2 million. We can provide no assurances that losses will not recur in the future or that we will ever sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. To the extent that revenues decline or do not grow at anticipated rates, increases in operating expenses precede or are not subsequently followed by commensurate increases in revenues or we are unable to adjust operating expense levels accordingly, your investment could be jeopardized. If the percentage of our revenues derived from construction-related activities increases, our gross margins may suffer. We have historically earned lower relative gross margins on engineering and construction-related activities. We typically perform our own network design-related, site acquisition-related services and hire subcontractors to perform engineering and construction services under our direct management. Subcontracted work generally carries lower profit margins than self- performed work. If the proportion of construction-related services we deliver increases, then our gross margins and net income may suffer. We generate a substantial portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers, and if our relationships with such customers were harmed, our business would suffer. For the year ended June 30, 2006, we derived 83% of our total revenues from our four largest customers. For the six months ended June 30, 2005, we derived 86% of our total revenues from our four largest customers. For the years ended December 31, 2004, and 2003, Old Berliner derived 87% and 86%, respectively, of its total revenues from its six and four largest customers, respectively. We believe that a limited number of clients will continue to be the source of a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Key factors in maintaining our relationships with such customers include, for example, our performance on individual contracts and the strength of our professional reputation. To the extent that our performance does not meet client expectations, or our reputation or relationships with one or more key customers are impaired, our revenues and operating results could be materially harmed. Recent and continuing consolidations among wireless service providers may result in a significant reduction in our existing and potential customer base, and, if we are unable to maintain our existing relations with such providers or expand such relationships, we could have a significant decrease in our revenues, which would negatively impact our ability to generate income as well as result in lower profitability. The level of merger activity among telecommunications operators has increased markedly in the past three years and this trend is continuing. One of our customers, Sprint, has merged with Nextel. These consolidations have and will reduce the number of companies comprising that portion of our customer base consisting of wireless service providers. To the extent that these combined companies decide to reduce the number of their service providers, our already highly competitive market environment will become more competitive, at least in the short term, as the same number of service providers will seek business from a reduced number of potential customers. Because we have historically derived a significant portion of our revenues in any given year from a limited number of customers, we may not be able to reduce costs in response to any decrease in our revenues. If we are unable to maintain our existing relations with these companies or expand such relationships, we could have a significant decrease in our revenues, which would negatively impact our ability to generate income as well as result in lower profitability. 7 Table of Contents If we experience delays and or defaults in customer payments, we could be unable to cover all expenditures. Because of the nature of our contracts, at times we commit resources to projects prior to receiving payments from our customer in amounts sufficient to cover expenditures on client projects as they are incurred. Delays in customer payments may require us to make a working capital investment. If a customer defaults in making its payments on a project in which we have devoted significant resources, it could have a material negative effect on our results of operations. Many of our customers face difficulties in obtaining financing to fund the expansion of their wireless networks, including deployments and upgrades, which may reduce demand for our services. Due to downturns in the financial markets which began in 2000, and specifically within the telecommunications financial markets, many of our customers or potential customers have had and may continue to have trouble obtaining financing to fund the expansion or improvement of their wireless networks. Some customers have also found it difficult to predict demand for their products and services. Most vulnerable are customers that are new licensees and wireless service providers who have limited sources of funds from operations or have business plans that are dependent on funding from the capital markets. Our customers may slow or postpone deployment of new networks and development of new products, which reduces the demand for our services. Our business is dependent upon our ability to keep pace with the latest technological changes. The market for our services is characterized by rapid change and technological improvements. Failure to respond in a timely and cost-effective way to these technological developments will result in serious harm to our business and operating results. We have derived, and we expect to continue to derive, a substantial portion of our revenues from creating wireless networks that are based upon today’s leading technologies and that are capable of adapting to future technologies. As a result, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and market service offerings that respond in a timely manner to the technological advances of our customers, evolving industry standards and changing client preferences. Our success is dependent on growth in the deployment of wireless networks and new technology upgrades, and to the extent that such growth slows, our business may be harmed. Telecommunications carriers are constantly re-evaluating their network deployment plans in response to trends in the capital markets, changing perceptions regarding industry growth, the adoption of new wireless technologies, increasing pricing competition for subscribers and general economic conditions in the United States and internationally. If the rate of network deployment slows and carriers reduce their capital investments in wireless infrastructure or fail to expand into new geographic areas, our business may be significantly harmed. The uncertainty associated with rapidly changing telecommunications technologies may also negatively impact the rate of deployment of wireless networks and the demand for our services. Telecommunications service providers face significant challenges in assessing consumer demand and in acceptance of rapidly changing enhanced telecommunications capabilities. If telecommunications service providers perceive that the rate of acceptance of next generation telecommunications products will grow more slowly than previously expected, they may, as a result, slow their development of next generation technologies. Moreover, increasing price competition for subscribers could adversely affect the profitability of carriers and limit their resources for network deployment. Any significant sustained slowdown will further reduce the demand for our services and adversely affect our financial results. Further delays in the adoption and deployment of next generation wireless networks could negatively affect the demand for our services and its ability to grow our revenues. Wireless service providers may continue to delay their development of next generation technology if, among other things, they expect slow growth in the adoption of such technology, reduced profitability due to price competition for subscribers or regulatory delays. For example, even though wireless service providers have made substantial investments worldwide in acquiring 3G licenses, many providers have delayed deployment of 3G networks. Since we expect that a substantial portion of our growth will be derived from our services related to new technologies, further delays in the adoption and deployment of these technologies, such as 3G, would negatively affect the demand for its services and our ability to grow our revenues. 8 Table of Contents We bear the risk of cost overruns in some of our contracts. We conduct our business under various types of contractual arrangements. In terms of dollar-value, a majority of our contracts are guaranteed maximum or lump sum contracts, where we bear a significant portion of the risk for cost overruns. Under such contracts, prices are established, in part, on cost and scheduling estimates, which are based on a number of assumptions, including, without limitation, assumptions about future economic conditions, prices and availability of labor, equipment and materials, and other exigencies. If those estimates prove inaccurate, or circumstances change, cost overruns may occur, and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project. Our dependence on subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could adversely affect us. We rely on third-party subcontractors as well as third-party equipment manufacturers to complete our projects. To the extent that we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials, our ability to complete a project in a timely fashion or at a profit may be impaired. If the amount we are required to pay for these goods and services exceeds the amount we have estimated in bidding for fixed-price contracts, we could experience losses in the performance of these contracts. In addition, if a subcontractor or a manufacturer is unable to deliver its services, equipment or materials according to the negotiated terms for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition, we may be required to purchase the services, equipment or materials from another source at a higher price. This may reduce the profit to be realized or result in a loss on a project for which the services, equipment or materials were needed. If we guarantee the timely completion or performance standard of a project, we could incur significant, additional costs. In some instances and in many of our fixed-price contracts, we guarantee a customer that we will complete a project by a scheduled date. The contract sometimes provides that the project, when completed, will also achieve certain performance standards. If we subsequently fail to complete the project as scheduled, or if the project falls short of guaranteed performance standards, we may be held responsible for cost impacts to the client resulting from any delay or the costs to cause the project to achieve such performance standards. In some cases, where we fail to meet those performance standards, we may also be subject to agreed-upon liquidated damages. To the extent that these events occur, the total costs of the project would exceed its original estimates and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project. The nature of our engineering and construction business exposes us to potential liability claims and contract disputes that may negatively affect our results of operations. We engage in engineering and construction activities for wireless networks where design, construction or systems failures can result in substantial injury or damage to third parties. Any liability in excess of insurance limits at locations engineered or constructed by us could result in significant liability claims against us, which claims may negatively affect our results of operations, perhaps materially. In addition, if there is a customer dispute regarding our performance of project services, the customer may decide to delay or withhold payment to us. If we were ultimately unable to collect on these payments, our results of operations would be negatively impacted, perhaps materially. We maintain a workforce based upon current and anticipated workloads. If we do not receive future contract awards or if these awards are delayed, we may incur significant costs in meeting workforce demands. Our estimates of future performance depend on, among other matters, whether and when we will receive certain new contract awards. While our estimates are based upon our good faith judgment, they can be unreliable and may frequently change based on newly available information. In the case of our larger projects where timing is often uncertain, it is particularly difficult to project whether and when we will receive a contract award. The uncertainty of contract award timing can present difficulties in matching our workforce size with our contract needs. If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, we could incur costs resulting from reductions in staff or redundancy of facilities that would have the effect of negatively impacting our operating performance. 9 Table of Contents We may not be able to hire or retain a sufficient number of qualified engineers and other employees to meet our contractual obligations or maintain the quality of our services. As a service business, our ultimate success depends significantly on our ability to attract, train and retain engineering, system deployment, managerial, marketing and sales personnel who have excellent technical and intrapersonal skills. Competition for employees with the required range of skills fluctuates, depending on customer needs, and can be intense, particularly for radio frequency engineers. At times, we have had difficulty recruiting and retaining qualified technical personnel to properly and quickly staff large customer projects. In addition to recruitment difficulties, we must fully and properly train our employees according to our customers’ technology requirements and deploy and fully integrate each employee into our customers’ projects. Increased competition in the wireless industry is increasing the level of specific technical experience and training required to fulfill customer-staffing requirements. This process is costly and resource constraints may impede our ability to quickly and effectively train and deploy all of the personnel required to staff a large project. Intense competition in the engineering and construction industry could reduce our market share. We serve markets that are highly competitive and in which a large number of multinational companies compete. In particular, the engineering and construction markets are highly competitive and require substantial resources and capital investment in equipment, technology and skilled personnel. Competition also places downward pressure on our contract prices and profit margins. Intense competition is expected to continue in these markets. If we are unable to meet these competitive challenges, we could lose market share to our competitors and experience an overall reduction in our operating performance. We are vulnerable to the cyclical nature of the market we serve. The demand for our services and products is dependent upon the existence of projects with engineering, procurement, construction and management needs. The telecommunications market, where we principally compete, is particularly cyclical in nature. Such industries have historically been and will continue to be vulnerable to general downturns and are cyclical in nature. As a result, Old Berliner’s past results have varied considerably and our performance may continue to be volatile, depending upon the demand for future projects in the industry. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly results as a result of uncertainties relating to our ability to generate additional revenues, manage expenditures and other factors, certain of which are outside of our control. The quarterly and annual operating results of Old Berliner have varied considerably in the past, and our operating results are likely to do so as well, due to a number of factors, including, without limitation, those listed in this section. Many of these factors are outside our control and include, without limitation, the following: § financing provided to potential customers; § the commencement, progress, completion or termination of contracts during any particular quarter; § the availability of equipment to deploy new technologies, such a 3G and broadband; § the growth rate of wireless subscribers, which has a direct impact on the rate at which new cell sites are developed and built; and § telecommunications market conditions and economic generally. Due to these factors, our results for a particular quarter, and therefore, our combined results for that same period, may not meet the expectations of investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly. Because Old Berliner experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, long sales cycles, we expect to incur significant costs to generate new business and our customer base may not experience growth commensurate with such costs. Historically, purchases of Old Berliner’s services by customers often entailed a lengthy decision-making process for the customer. Selecting wireless network deployment services involves substantial costs and has strategic implications. Senior management of the customer is often involved in this process, given the importance of the decision, as well as the risks faced by the customer if the services do not meet the customer’s particular needs. We may expend substantial funds and effort to negotiate agreements for these services, but may ultimately be unable to consummate agreements for services and expand our 10 Table of Contents customer base. As a result of its lengthy sales cycles, we expect to continue to incur relatively high costs to generate new business. If we are unable to identify and complete future acquisitions, we may be unable to continue our growth. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities. Even if we identify favorable acquisition targets, there is no guarantee that we can acquire them on reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to complete attractive acquisitions, the growth that we have experienced over the last three fiscal years may decline. 