ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Although we have had net income in prior periods and in the current period, we have experienced losses in the past and we may never achieve sustained profitability. Although we had net income during the years ended June 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we may not be profitable in future periods, either on a short or long-term basis. To the extent that revenue declines or does not grow at anticipated rates, increases in operating expenses precede or are not subsequently followed by commensurate increases in revenue or we are unable to adjust operating expense levels accordingly, your investment could be jeopardized. We generate a substantial portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers, and if our relationships with such customers were harmed, our business would suffer. As of and for the year ended June 30, 2008, we derived 84% of our total revenues from our two largest customers, and those customers represented 62% of our accounts receivable. During the year ended June 30, 2008, Sprint Nextel Corporation represented 77% and Metro PCS represented 7% of our total revenues. As of and for the year ended June 30, 2007, we derived 87% of our total revenues from our two largest customers, and those customers represented 77% of our accounts receivable. During the year ended June 30, 2007, Sprint Nextel Corporation represented 80% and T-Mobile USA, Inc. represented 7% of our total revenues. We believe that a limited number of clients will continue to be the source of a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Key factors in maintaining our relationships with such customers include, without limitation, our performance on individual contracts and the strength of our professional reputation. To the extent that our performance does not meet client expectations, or our reputation or relationships with one or more key customers are impaired, this could cause a significant decrease in our revenue, which would negatively impact our ability to generate income. In addition, our key customers could slow or stop spending on initiatives related to projects we are performing for them, and this, while outside our control, could materially impair our operating results. We experienced a significant reduction in revenue from our largest customer in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 due to the cancellation or postponement of a number of projects. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we were advised that our largest customer had slowed the implementation of initiatives related to significant projects we were performing for them. This customer notified us of the cancellation of certain purchase orders, and instructed us to delay the completion of other existing purchase orders. This loss of revenue had a material impact on our financial results, including our revenue and operating income, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, and we expect it to negatively impact our first and second quarter fiscal 2009 financial results. We cannot predict when this customer will authorize us to complete these delayed purchase orders, or if they will do so at all, or whether we could replace this lost revenue through new or existing customers. These developments, while outside of our control, could materially impair our future operating results. 11 Our recent rapid growth has created challenges for our management, systems and resources, and this may impact our ability to effectively manage future growth, if any. We have grown rapidly during fiscal 2008 and 2007. In early calendar 2007, we acquired three new businesses. In fiscal 2008, our sales volume increased from $55 million to $128 million. This rapid growth strained our systems, processes, resources, management and other infrastructure and support mechanisms. We expect that any future growth may create additional challenges. To manage the anticipated growth of our operations, we will be required to: · improve existing and implement new operational, financial and management information controls, reporting systems and procedures; · establish relationships with additional vendors, suppliers and strategic partners and maintain and expand our existing relationships; and · hire, train, manage and retain additional personnel, especially qualified sales and marketing, business development and financial reporting personnel. To the extent we are unable to assemble the personnel, controls, systems, procedures and relationships necessary to manage our future growth, if any, management resources may be diverted and our opportunity for success limited. If we experience delays and or defaults in customer payments, we could be unable to cover all expenditures. Because of the nature of our contracts, at times we commit resources to projects prior to receiving payments from our customers in amounts sufficient to cover expenditures on client projects as they are incurred. Delays in customer payments may require us to make a working capital investment, or obtain advances from our line of credit. If a customer defaults in making its payments on a project or projects in which we have devoted significant resources, it could have a material negative effect on our results of operations or negatively impact our financial covenants with our lenders. If the percentage of our revenue derived from construction-related activities increases, our gross margins may suffer. We have historically earned lower relative gross margins on engineering and construction-related activities. We typically perform our own network design-related, site acquisition-related services and hire subcontractors to perform engineering and construction services under our direct management. Subcontracted work generally carries lower profit margins than self-performed work. If the proportion of construction-related services we deliver increases, then our gross margins and net income may suffer. We may need additional working capital, the lack of which would likely have a significant negative impact on our ability to grow our business. We may require additional working capital in order to fund the growth of our operations. If adequate funds are not available on terms acceptable to us, we may not be able to effectively grow our operations and expand our business. Our ability to fund our operations and corporate infrastructure is directly related to the continued availability of these and other funding sources. 12 In order to grow our business, we may incur significant operating, borrowing and other costs. Should our operations require additional funding or our capital requirements exceed current estimates, we could be required to seek additional financing in the future. We can provide no assurances that we would be able to raise such financing when needed or on acceptable terms. As a result, we may be forced to reduce or delay additional expenditures or otherwise delay, curtail or discontinue some or all of our operations. Further, if we are able to access additional capital through borrowings, such debt would increase our debt obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our business is dependent upon our ability to keep pace with the latest technological changes. The market for our services is characterized by rapid change and technological improvements. If we are unable to respond in a timely and cost-effective way to these technological developments, this would result in serious harm to our business and operating results. We have derived, and we expect to continue to derive, a substantial portion of our revenue from creating wireless networks that are based upon today’s leading technologies and that are capable of adapting to future technologies. As a result, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and market service offerings that respond in a timely manner to the technological advances of our customers, evolving industry standards and changing client preferences. Our success is dependent on growth in the deployment of wireless networks and new technology upgrades, and to the extent that such growth slows, our business may be harmed. Telecommunications carriers are constantly re-evaluating their network deployment plans in response to trends in the capital markets, changing perceptions regarding industry growth, the adoption of new wireless technologies, increasing pricing competition for subscribers and general economic conditions in the United States and internationally. If the rate of network deployment slows and carriers reduce their capital investments in wireless infrastructure or fail to expand into new geographic areas, our business may be significantly harmed. The uncertainty associated with rapidly changing telecommunications technologies may also negatively impact the rate of deployment of wireless networks and the demand for our services. Telecommunications service providers face significant challenges in assessing consumer demand and in acceptance of rapidly changing enhanced telecommunications capabilities. If telecommunications service providers perceive that the rate of acceptance of next generation telecommunications products will grow more slowly than previously expected, they may, as a result, slow their development of next generation technologies. Moreover, increasing price competition for subscribers could adversely affect the profitability of carriers and limit their resources for network deployment. Any significant sustained slowdown will further reduce the demand for our services and adversely affect our financial results. Delays in the adoption and deployment of next generation wireless networks could negatively affect the demand for our services and our ability to grow our revenue. Wireless service providers may delay their development of next generation technology if, among other things, they expect slow growth in the adoption of such technology, reduced profitability due to price competition for subscribers or regulatory delays. For example, even though wireless service providers have made substantial investments worldwide in acquiring third generation, or 3G licenses, some providers have delayed deployment of 3G networks. Since we expect that a substantial portion of our growth will be derived from our services related to new technologies, further delays in the adoption and deployment of these technologies, such as 3G and fourth generation, or 4G, would negatively affect the demand for our services and our ability to grow our revenue. We bear the risk of cost overruns in some of our contracts. We conduct our business under various types of contractual arrangements. Under such contracts, prices are established, in part, on cost and scheduling estimates, which are based on a number of assumptions, including, without limitation, assumptions about future economic conditions, prices and availability of labor, equipment and materials, and other exigencies. If those estimates prove inaccurate, or circumstances change, cost overruns may occur, and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project. 13 Our dependence on subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could adversely affect us. We rely on third-party subcontractors as well as third-party equipment manufacturers to complete our projects. To the extent that we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials, our ability to complete a project in a timely fashion or at a profit may be impaired. If the amount we are required to pay for these goods and services exceeds the amount we have estimated in bidding for fixed-price contracts, we could experience losses in the performance of these contracts. In addition, if a subcontractor or a manufacturer is unable to deliver its services, equipment or materials according to the negotiated terms for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition, we may be required to purchase the services, equipment or materials from another source at a higher price. This may reduce the profit to be realized or result in a loss on a project for which the services, equipment or materials were needed. If we guarantee the timely completion or performance standard of a project, we could incur significant, additional costs. In some instances, we guarantee to a customer that we will complete a project by a scheduled date. The contract sometimes provides that the project, when completed, will also achieve certain performance standards. If we subsequently fail to complete the project as scheduled, or if the project falls short of guaranteed performance standards, we may be held responsible for cost impacts to the client resulting from any delay or the costs to cause the project to achieve such performance standards. In some cases, where we fail to meet those performance standards, we may also be subject to agreed-upon liquidated damages. To the extent that these events occur, the total costs of the project could exceed its original estimates and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project. The nature of our construction business exposes us to potential liability claims and contract disputes that may negatively affect our results of operations. We engage in construction activities, including the oversight of engineering firms, for wireless networks where design, construction or systems failures can result in substantial injury or damage to third parties. Any liability in excess of insurance limits at locations constructed by us could result in significant liability claims against us, which claims may negatively affect our results of operations, perhaps materially. In addition, if there is a customer dispute regarding our performance of project services, the customer may decide to delay or withhold payment to us. If we were ultimately unable to collect on these payments, our results of operations would be negatively impacted, perhaps materially. We maintain a workforce based upon current and anticipated workloads. If we do not receive future contract awards or if these awards are delayed, we may incur significant costs in meeting workforce demands. Our estimates of future performance depend on, among other matters, whether and when we will receive certain new contract awards. While our estimates are based upon our good faith judgment, they can be unreliable and may frequently change based on newly available information. In the case of our larger projects where timing is often uncertain, it is particularly difficult to project whether and when we will receive a contract award. The uncertainty of contract award timing can present difficulties in matching our workforce size with our contract needs. If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, we could incur costs resulting from reductions in staff or redundancy of facilities that would have the effect of negatively impacting our operating performance. 14 We may not be able to hire or retain a sufficient number of qualified engineers and other employees to meet our contractual obligations or maintain the quality of our services. As a service business, our ultimate success depends significantly on our ability to attract, train and retain engineering, system deployment, managerial, marketing and sales personnel who have excellent technical and interpersonal skills. Competition for employees with the required range of skills fluctuates, depending on customer needs, and can be intense, particularly for radio frequency engineers. At times, we have had difficulty recruiting and retaining qualified technical personnel to properly and quickly staff large customer projects. In addition to recruitment difficulties, we must fully and properly train our employees according to our customers’ technology requirements and deploy and fully integrate each employee into our customers’ projects. Competition in the wireless industry is increasing the level of specific technical experience and training required to fulfill customer-staffing requirements. This process is costly, and resource constraints may impede our ability to quickly and effectively train and deploy all of the personnel required to staff a large project. Intense competition in the engineering and construction industry could reduce our market share. We serve markets that are highly competitive and in which a large number of multinational companies compete. In particular, the engineering and construction markets are highly competitive and require substantial resources and capital investment in equipment, technology and skilled personnel. Competition also places downward pressure on our contract prices and profit margins. Intense competition is expected to continue in these markets. If we are unable to meet these competitive challenges, we could lose market share to our competitors and experience an overall reduction in our operating performance. We are vulnerable to the cyclical nature of the market we serve. The demand for our services and products is dependent upon the existence of projects with engineering, procurement, construction and management needs. The telecommunications market, where we principally compete, is particularly cyclical in nature. Such industries have historically been, and will continue to be, vulnerable to general downturns and are cyclical in nature. As a result, our past results have varied considerably and our performance may continue to be volatile, depending upon the demand for future projects in the industry. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly results as a result of uncertainties relating to our ability to generate additional revenue, manage expenditures and other factors, certain of which are outside of our control. Our operating results have varied considerably in the past, and may continue to do so, due to a number of factors. Many of these factors are outside our control and include, without limitation, the following: § financing provided to potential customers; § the commencement, progress, completion or termination of contracts during any particular quarter; § the availability of equipment to deploy new technologies, such as 4G and broadband; § the growth rate of wireless subscribers, which has a direct impact on the rate at which new cell sites are developed and built; and § telecommunications market conditions and economic conditions generally. Due to these factors, our results for a particular quarter, and therefore, our combined results for that same period, may not meet the expectations of investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly. Our stock price is volatile and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Historically, our stock price has been volatile. The stock market in general, and the market for telecommunications companies in particular, has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, investors may not be able to sell their common stock at or above their respective purchase prices. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including, but not limited to, variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us, investors’ perceptions of us, the number of our shares available in the market, future sales of our common stock, and general economic, industry and market conditions. 15 There is a lack of a public market for our shares, which limits our shareholders’ ability to sell their shares. There is currently a limited public market for our shares, and we cannot assure you that a more active market for our stock will develop. Consequently, investors may not be able to liquidate their shares at a suitable price, or at all. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, long sales cycles, we expect to incur significant costs to generate new business and our customer base may not experience growth commensurate with such costs. Historically, purchases of our services by customers often entailed a lengthy decision-making process for the customer. Selecting wireless network deployment services involves substantial costs and has strategic implications. Senior management of the customer is often involved in this process, given the importance of the decision, as well as the risks faced by the customer if the services do not meet the customer’s particular needs. We may expend substantial funds and effort to negotiate agreements for these services, but may ultimately be unable to consummate agreements for services and expand our customer base. As a result of lengthy sales cycles, we expect to continue to incur relatively high costs to generate new business. If we are unable to identify and complete future acquisitions, we may be unable to continue our growth. We may not be able to identify additional, attractive acquisition opportunities. Even if we identify favorable acquisition targets, there is no guarantee that we can acquire them on reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to complete attractive acquisitions, the growth that we have experienced over the last three fiscal years may decline. We may not be able to register the shares of common stock issued upon conversion of our 7% Senior Subordinated Secured Convertible Notes and exercise of the accompanying warrants, which may subject us to financial penalties. The Note Purchase Agreement we entered into in connection with our financings with Sigma Opportunity Fund, LLC (“Sigma”), Pacific Asset Partners, LP (“Pacific”), Operis Partners I, LLC (“Operis”) and Sigma Berliner, LLC (collectively the “Noteholders”) requires that we file and make effective a registration statement with the SEC covering the shares of common stock issued upon conversion of each of the 7% Senior Subordinated Secured Convertible Notes (the “Notes”) and exercise of the accompanying warrants. We have agreed to use our best efforts to register the shares issued for the Notes and the associated warrants, and to maintain the effectiveness of any registration statement we file with respect to these shares. We were able to register only 1,295,047 shares of our common stock underlying certain of the Accompanying Warrants on a delayed or continuing basis (as required under the Note Purchase Agreement), and are obligated to register the remaining shares of common stock as we are able to in the future. If we are unable to meet the registration requirements set forth in the Waiver and Amended Note Purchase Agreement that we entered into with the Noteholders on September 27, 2007, we may be subject to damages. 16 A default on our debt obligations could result in foreclosure on all of our assets. In April 2008, we replaced our credit facility with Presidential Financial Corporation of Delaware Valley with a new credit facility of up to $15 million with PNC Bank, National Association (the “PNC Facility”). The PNC Facility is secured by a blanket security interest that covers certain of BCI’s receivables, equipment, general intangibles, inventory, investment property, certain real property, certain leasehold interests, all subsidiary stock, records and other property (collectively, the “Collateral”) and proceeds of all of the Collateral. An event of default with respect to the PNC Facility could result in, among other things, the acceleration and demand for payment of all principal and interest due and the foreclosure on the Collateral. The sale of such Collateral at foreclosure would result in a substantial disruption in our ability to operate our business and could significantly lower our revenue and profitability. We may not be able to refinance or obtain extensions of the maturities of all or some of such debt only on terms that significantly restrict our ability to operate, including terms that place limitations on our ability to incur other indebtedness, to pay dividends, to use our assets as collateral for other financings, to sell assets or to make acquisitions or enter into other transactions. Such restrictions may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or to engage in other business activities. If we finance the repayment of our outstanding indebtedness by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, such issuances could result in substantial dilution to our stockholders. If we fail to accurately estimate costs and other factors associated with contracts accounted for using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, this may reduce our profitability. We recognize revenue and profit on our contracts as the work progresses using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Under this method, contracts in progress are valued at cost plus accrued profits less earned revenue and progress payments on uncompleted projects. This method relies on estimates of total expected contract revenue and costs. Contract revenue and total cost estimates are reviewed and revised monthly as the work progresses, such that adjustments to profit resulting from revisions are made cumulative to the date of revision. Adjustments are reflected for the fiscal period affected by those revised estimates. If estimates of costs to complete long-term projects indicate a loss, we immediately recognize the full amount of the estimated loss. Such adjustments and accrued losses could result in reducing our profitability. We may incur goodwill and other intangible impairment charges which could reduce our profitability. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, we review the carrying values of our goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets at least annually. We determine the fair value of businesses acquired (reporting units) and compare it to the carrying value, including goodwill, of such businesses. If the carrying value exceeds its fair value, the goodwill of the unit may be impaired. The amount, if any, of the impairment is then measured, based on the excess, if any, of the reporting unit’s carrying value of goodwill over its implied value. Accordingly, an impairment charge would be recognized for the period identified which would reduce our profitability. 17 ITEM 