Risk Factors” on Page 30, and 10, respectively. General Berliner Communications, Inc. was originally incorporated in Delaware in 1987 as Adina, Inc. Adina’s corporate existence was permitted to lapse in February of 1996 and was subsequently reinstated as eVentures Group, Inc., in August of 1999. In December of 2000, eVentures changed its name to Novo Networks, Inc. (“Novo”). On February 18, 2005, Novo entered into an asset purchase agreement with the former Berliner Communications, Inc., currently named Old Berliner, Inc. (“Old Berliner”) and BCI Communications, Inc. (“BCI”), a Delaware corporation and Novo’s wholly-owned subsidiary, whereby BCI acquired (the “Acquisition”) the operations and substantially all of the assets and liabilities of Old Berliner. On September 16, 2005, Novo changed its name to Berliner Communications, Inc. (“Berliner”). Berliner is now the public reporting entity, and all of our operations are run out of Berliner’s wholly-owned subsidiary, BCI. Unless the context otherwise requires, references to “we”, “us”, “our” and “the Company” refer to Berliner and its consolidated subsidiary BCI. Prior to the Acquisition, Old Berliner provided wireless carriers with comprehensive real estate site acquisition, construction and zoning services. Old Berliner was founded in 1995, and over the course of the following years, its service offerings were expanded to include radio frequency and network design and engineering, infrastructure equipment construction and installation, radio transmission base station modification and project management services. With the consummation of the Acquisition, BCI carried on the operations of Old Berliner. On February 28, 2007, BCI entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with Digital Communication Services, Inc. (“Digitcom”) and its affiliates for the purchase of certain of its assets in Arlington, Texas. This acquisition has expanded and strengthened our presence in Texas and the Southeast region. On April 16, 2007, we entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with Radian Communication Services, Inc. (“Radian”) to purchase certain of the U.S. assets and operations of Radian and assume certain liabilities of Radian. This acquisition has expanded our presence in Los Angeles, California, Las Vegas, Nevada, and Seattle, Washington, and adds offices in Salem, Oregon, Tempe, Arizona and Salt Lake City, Utah. We have been pleased with the success of the integration of both Digitcom and Radian into our existing organization, and with the high quality of the employees that came over to us through these transactions. These acquisitions have expanded our customer base and we believe these acquisitions will improve our overall financial profile going forward. With the consummation of these acquisitions, BCI is now a leading self-performing, full service vendor to the wireless communications industry, providing a wide range of services, on a nationwide basis. Our core activities include real estate site acquisition and zoning; infrastructure equipment construction and installation; network services; radio frequency and network design and engineering; radio transmission base station installation and modification; and in-building network design, engineering and construction. We provide some combination of these services to our customers, most of which are companies in the wireless telecommunications and/or data transmission industries, as well as to utility companies and government entities. Our customers rely on us to assist them in planning, site location and leasing of space for wireless communication transmission systems. 3 An Overview of Our Markets and Products We currently report our financial results on the basis of two reportable segments: (1) infrastructure construction and technical services and (2) real estate acquisition and zoning. Our infrastructure construction and technical services segment consists of the following service lines: infrastructure equipment construction and installation, radio frequency and network design and engineering, radio transmission base station modification, in-building network design, engineering and construction, project management and specialty communication services. Our real estate acquisition and zoning segment stands as a separate service line. Each of these lines, as well as the business of our real estate acquisition and zoning segment, is described below. Infrastructure Equipment Construction and Installation. Infrastructure equipment construction and installation services are the key drivers of our business, and the majority of our revenue comes from this service offering. The quality of the installation work in a wireless telecommunications system build-out is one of the most critical aspects of its performance. Once the necessary site acquisition steps have been completed, materials to construct a tower are ordered from a fabricator, or in some cases, equipment and materials are ordered to modify an existing site. Depending on our customers’ needs, we could be involved in all aspects of site acquisition, construction and installation. Installation could involve clearing sites, laying foundations, bringing in utility lines and installing shelters and towers. Once we finish this part of the process, we install equipment and landscape the site. The site is now ready to be put into service once the remainder of the network is completed. Installation may start once the preliminary work has been completed and the individual “cell site” or switch location is ready to be built. Every site is then tested with a simulation to see what levels of line loss exist and how the transmission systems perform. We manage everything from “one-off” projects involving a single site to “long-range” installation projects, possibly involving several hundred sites. These large projects involve significant planning and project management skills that we believe distinguish us from many of our competitors, particularly our smaller competitors. Radio Frequency and Network Design and Engineering. Toward the end of the 1990’s, we saw that our industry was undergoing additional changes and took the opportunity to enter yet another service area. Specifically, we noticed that companies in the wireless industry were reducing their engineering services staff in order to cut internal costs, but were still in need of such services. In response, we added radio frequency and network design and engineering services to our portfolio. Wireless network designs are based on projected subscriber density, traffic demand and desired coverage area. The initial system design is intended to optimize available radio frequency and to result in the highest possible signal quality for the greatest portion of projected subscriber usage base within existing technical constraints. Based on such initial guidelines, we identify and rank potential sites. This process is known as identifying “search rings.” Radio Transmission Base Station Modification. We currently perform cellular base station upgrades and modifications for wireless telecommunications carriers. This work involves upgrades to existing hardware as well as adding new hardware such as radios, duplexers, power systems and site controllers, and is essential for enhancing network capacity and paving the way to the deployment of third generation, or 3G, and fourth generation, or 4G, systems. In order to minimize the impact on existing wireless customers, most of the upgrade or modification work must be performed at night during a so-called “maintenance window” between the hours of 11:00 PM and 5:00 AM. Carriers generally entrust this kind of work only to trained, capable vendors, such as BCI, who can reliably and successfully complete the work at each site during such timeframes. In-Building Network Design, Engineering and Construction. We offer complete in-building solutions that involve distributed antennae for wireless coverage in malls, shopping centers, casinos, office buildings and airports and may include voice services (using cellular or personal communications services (“PCS”) and wireless private branch exchange (“PBX”) technologies), data services (including 802.11 (2.4 and 5 GHz)), enhanced coverage for safety spectrum (police, fire and rescue) and wireless primary and secondary broadband backbones, synchronous optical networks (“SONETs”) and campus connections. Project Management. We also supervise all of the efforts associated with a project, whether it involves one or more of the foregoing services or a “turn-key” solution, so the carrier can ultimately broadcast from the newly configured site. Project management includes vendor management, project planning and preparation, budget tracking, and engineering and construction coordination. A single project may involve thousands of individual sites, and we believe our ability to manage projects of this size and complexity distinguishes us from some of our competitors who do not have the experience or resources that we do in this area. 4 Specialty Communication Services. Our newly acquired specialty communication services division provides enhancements to existing wireless and wired telephone and computer networks designed to improve productivity for a specified application by transmitting data, voice or video information in situations where land line networks are non-existent, more difficult to deploy or too expensive. We believe this business presents a significant growth opportunity for us, and we intend to grow this aspect of our business during fiscal 2008. Configured Solutions. In early fiscal 2008, we introduced a configured solutions service offering, designed to supplement our other business lines by providing logistics services to our customers and to other third parties that may not have the facilities, resources or capabilities that we do. These services will include transportation, tracking, storing and delivering of equipment, and configuring and testing equipment at our locations. Our diverse geographic locations provide an excellent platform for these services, and we have the expertise in-house for the testing and configuration work. We believe this will provide an additional source of revenue, allow us to further utilize existing resources and facilities and provide yet another service that our customers need and not all of our competitors can offer. Real Estate Site Acquisition and Zoning. We began our business providing primarily real estate site acquisition services that generally involve acting as an intermediary between telecommunications companies and owners of real estate and other facilities. In order to build and expand their networks, such companies require locations that have direct access to highways and roads to mount their antennas and equipment. The telecommunications companies are typically able and willing to pay fees for the rights to place their equipment in such strategic locations. Facility owners are generally eager to earn additional income from their properties. We generate fees by introducing telecommunications companies and real estate managers. We identify appropriate properties, negotiate the transactions and handle the administrative details. We also use our accumulated knowledge and relationships to assist in the planning and installation of the telecommunication facilities, and offer customers assistance in acquiring the necessary permits, entitlements and approvals that are required by various municipalities. We also prepare all zoning applications that may be needed, attend any necessary hearings and obtain any required land use permits to begin installation. Project management includes vendor management, project preparation and engineering and construction coordination. Industry Background Wireless Telecommunications Networks Wireless telecommunications networks are built using radio-based systems that allow a telephone or data terminal to communicate without a metallic or optical cord or wire equipment. The life cycle of a wireless network continually evolves and consists of several phases, including strategic planning, design, deployment, expansion, operations and maintenance. During the strategic planning phase, operators pursue the licenses necessary to build out a wireless system and make decisions about the type of technology and equipment to be used, where it will be located and how it will be configured. Technical planning and preliminary engineering designs are often required to decide on a deployment strategy and determine construction costs and the revenue generating ability of the wireless system. Following acceptance of a wireless network design, access to land or building rooftops must be secured for towers or telecommunications equipment, including radio base stations, antennae and supporting electronics. Each site must be qualified in a number of areas, including zoning ordinance requirements, regulatory compliance and suitability for construction. Detailed site location designs are prepared and radio frequency engineers review interference to or from co-located antennae. Construction and equipment installation then must be performed and site performance is measured after completion of construction. Finally, professional technicians install and commission the new radio equipment, test it, integrate it with existing networks and tune the components to optimize performance. Once a wireless network becomes operational and the number of subscribers increases, the system must be expanded to increase system coverage and capacity. In addition, the wireless system must be continually updated and optimized to address changes in traffic patterns and interference from neighboring or competing networks or other radio sources. Operations and maintenance also involves tuning the network to enable operators to compete more effectively in areas where there are multiple system operators. 5 Finally, as new technologies are continuously developed, wireless service providers must determine whether to upgrade their existing networks or deploy new networks utilizing the latest available technologies. Overlaying new technologies, such as late second generation, third generation and fourth generation (“2.5G”, “3G” and “4G,” respectively), onto an existing network or deploying a new network requires operators to reengage in the strategic planning, design, deployment, expansion, operations and maintenance phases of a new cycle in the life of an existing or new network. Our primary business today is modifying existing sites by overlaying new technologies, as well as developing new sites for wireless carriers and others. Growth and Evolution of the Wireless Telecommunications Industry Worldwide use of wireless telecommunications has grown rapidly as cellular and other emerging wireless communications services have become more widely available and affordable for the mass business and consumer markets. The rapid growth in wireless telecommunications is driven by the dramatic increase in wireless telephone usage, as well as strong demand for wireless Internet and other data services. According to the Cellular Telecommunications and Internet Association, there were approximately 233 million wireless subscribers in the United States in 2006, an increase of 2% over the prior year that accounted for approximately $127 billion wireless service revenue, an increase of 10% from the prior year. Wireless access to the Internet is in an early stage of development and growing rapidly as web-enabled devices become more accessible. Demand for wireless Internet access and other data services is accelerating the adoption of new technologies, such as those embodied in 3G and 4G, to enable wireless networks to deliver enhanced data capabilities. Examples of wireless data services include e-mail, messaging services, Wi-Fi, WiMax, music on-demand, m-banking, locations-based services and interactive games. Recently, one of our major customers, Sprint, has announced its commitment to developing a WiMax network. We believe that as new technologies are introduced, network upgrades will become necessary, and we will be well-positioned to assist our customers with the required upgrade work as we have the technical expertise, experience and capabilities to handle this work on a large scale, on a nation-wide basis. Industry Challenges During the past several years, the major wireless carriers began evaluating their costs for engineering and constructing wireless sites and, as a result, those expenses became an important issue. At that time, several well-funded private and public firms entered the industry as high-level general contractors. These larger companies, sometimes referred to as “consolidators”, include such companies as Bechtel Corporation and General Dynamics Corporation. These and other similarly situated companies put themselves between the larger wireless service providers, like Sprint, Nextel, AT&T Wireless Services, Inc., Cingular Wireless Services, Inc., and T-Mobile USA, Inc., and their former contractors, such as us, by negotiating flat rate pricing. Many contracting firms entered into agreements with limited knowledge of the actual cost to complete the work, resulting in many lower than market bids. As a result, many smaller subcontractors could not compete at such reduced margins. During 2004, the wireless carriers also significantly reduced the number of sites they were going to build. These factors contributed to industry attrition in the equipment construction and installation sector. They also had a severe negative effect on the profitability of companies such as ours. Today, we have the size, scope and resources to establish direct-to-carrier relationships. In addition, carriers are contracting with original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, such as Ericsson, Nokia and Motorola, to perform installation services, and we have been working directly with these OEMs to assist with these installation projects. Position in Industry We believe that the large wireless carriers have not been entirely satisfied with their experience with some of the large contracting or project management firms, and that this dissatisfaction created an opportunity for full service, “self-performing” firms, such as BCI, with the ability to handle significant volume, to take over a portion of the work currently being performed by such firms. Now that we have become what is known as a “tier one” service provider, we now receive purchase orders directly from the end user customer, the wireless carriers. This situation enhances our profitability by removing a layer of costs from our projects. We expect to continue to benefit from new developments in wireless technology and additional consolidation in the telecommunications industry. 6 Key Drivers of Change in Our Business The key drivers of change in the wireless telecommunications industry have been: • the issuance of new or additional licenses to wireless service providers; • the introduction of new services or technologies; • the increase in the number of subscribers served by wireless service providers; • the increasing complexity of wireless systems in operation; • the current consolidation in the telecommunications sector; and • the increase in spending to rebuild and improve other communications networks, such as Public Safety Networks. Each of these key drivers is discussed below: The issuance of new or additional licenses to wireless service providers. The Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, has, and we expect it will continue to, issue new licenses to wireless service providers that we believe will present new opportunities for us. For example, the FCC is set to auction a significant number of licenses in the 700 MHz spectrum in January 2008. This introduction of new licenses allows new entrants into the industry who will need to develop new networks. After receiving new or additional licenses necessary to build out their wireless systems, wireless service providers must make decisions about what type of technology and equipment will be used, where it will be deployed and how it will be configured. In addition, detailed site location designs must be prepared and radio frequency engineers must review interference to or from co-located antennae. Construction and equipment installation must then be performed and professional technicians must install and commission the new radio equipment, test and integrate it with existing networks and tune the components to optimize performance. We believe we are well positioned to service these needs. The introduction of new services or technologies. Although wireless service providers traditionally have relied upon their internal engineering workforces to address a significant portion of their wireless network needs, the rapid introduction of new services or technologies in the wireless market and the need to reduce operating costs in many cases have resulted in wireless service providers and equipment vendors focusing on their core competencies. As a result, wireless service providers are outsourcing an increasing portion of their network services development work to companies such as ours. For example, the FCC, in November of 2003, began requiring wireless service providers to provide local number portability, or LNP, to customers, which makes it easier for consumers to switch wireless service providers by giving consumers the ability to do so without changing their phone numbers. LNP increases the complexity of call processing, number administration, service assurance and network operations. We believe that nearly every United States-based wireless service provider has been and will continue upgrading its network in order to mitigate the potential for customer termination, or churn, as a result of the implementation of LNP. Such efforts involve providing both additional network capacity and expanded geographic coverage to address wireless customers’ perceptions of network quality, and therefore, wireless service providers have retained firms such as ours that can supplement or replace their internal resources and assist with this network development and enhancement. The increase in the number of wireless subscribers served by wireless providers. The increase in the number of subscribers served by wireless service providers, with the concomitant increase in usage by those subscribers and scarcity of wireless spectrum, require such carriers to expand and optimize system coverage and capacity to maintain network quality. The wireless system also must be continually updated and optimized to address changes in traffic patterns and interference from neighboring or competing networks or other radio sources. The increasing complexity of wireless systems in operation. As new technologies are developed, wireless service providers must determine whether to upgrade their existing networks or deploy new networks utilizing the latest available technologies in order to maintain their market share. For example, overlaying new technologies, such as 3G and 4G, with an existing network or deploying a new network requires wireless service providers to reengage in the strategic planning, design, deployment, expansion, operations and maintenance phases of a new cycle in the life of an existing or new network. 7 The current consolidation in the telecommunications sector. In light of recent consolidation in the telecommunications sector, wireless service providers are faced with issues regarding the integration of separate telecommunications networks. This may provide us with the opportunity to provide services relating to performing network compatibility testing and resolving integration solutions. We provide significant modification work to existing networks besides the construction of new wireless sites. The increase in spending to rebuild and improve other communications networks, such as Public Safety Networks. There has been and we believe there will continue to be increased spending on rebuilding and improving other communications networks, including wireless and wired data, video and voice networks, particularly those dedicated to public safety and homeland security communications. We currently service this growing market, and we plan on developing further expertise and adding resources to this area, specifically through the growth of our Specialty Communications Services division. Plan of Operation We believe it will be necessary to take the following steps within the next 12 months in order to meet our revenue goals and to achieve increased profitability: Increase Staffing. As a service provider, our potential for growth will be limited, notwithstanding an increased demand for our services, to the extent that we do not have the ability to hire and retain individuals with the requisite technical and field knowledge to provide such services. Because the services we offer are diverse and our geographic footprint has grown significantly during fiscal 2007, particularly in light of our acquisition of Radian, we may experience difficulty obtaining the appropriate level of staffing support at our various locations in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition, we will need to attract new and retain our existing management teams to continue to effectively and efficiently run our operations as we grow internally and through acquisitions across the country. Increase Business Development Activities. We recognize the need to increase our focus on business development and customer retention. We anticipate achieving this result though a variety of means, including, without limitation, increased exposure at trade shows and customer-sponsored events. We will also seek to assemble a business development team dedicated entirely to our efforts in this area, which we expect will include diversification of our customer base. Increase Subcontractor Base. As we experience increased demand for our services, we will have to be flexible and utilize subcontractors in order to meet construction schedules to the extent we are unable to staff such jobs with existing staff. We have a robust qualification process for our subcontractors, and we believe our ability to locate and retain high quality, reliable subcontractors that meet our qualifications will be a significant part of our ability to achieve our growth goals. Increase Marketing Activities. Although we have achieved recognition in the wireless area, we believe that our typical customer may not be aware of our entire range of services. For example, one set of our customers may recognize us for our site acquisition and zoning or infrastructure equipment construction and installation services, without being aware that we also provide radio frequency and network design and engineering services. Accordingly, we have recognized a need to create and implement a marketing plan, quite possibly with the assistance of a professional marketing firm, with specific industry experience, to market us as a provider of the full range of wireless services. Our integrated service package might be of interest, not only to potential customers looking for complete “turn-key” solutions, but also clients who are more interested in an “a la carte” approach to their wireless needs. Continue to Seek Strategic Acquisitions and Integrate Recent Acquisitions. We will continue to look for acquisitions of compatible businesses that can be assimilated into our organization, expand our geographic coverage and add accretive earnings to our business. Our preferred acquisition candidates will have (i) service offerings that supplement, and not necessarily overlap with, our existing service offerings, (ii) an expansive customer base that will allow us to diversify our customer concentration, and (iii) a favorable financial profile. In Fiscal 2007, we acquired the assets and businesses of Digitcom and Radian, and these acquisitions have expanded our customer base, geographic presence, and our number of employees. Our ability to continue to successfully manage this growth and the integration of these companies will be material to our success in fiscal 2008. We fully expect these acquisitions to improve our overall financial profile. 8 Competition The telecommunications industry is highly competitive. Because we offer such a wide breadth of service offerings, it is difficult to identify our competitors, because there are many companies providing services similar to some aspect of what we do. However, we currently believe that our most significant competitors include Site Acquisition Consultants, SBA Communications, Inc., Broken Arrow, Inc., Wireless Facilities Inc., NSORO LLC, Goodman Networks Inc., Bechtel Corporation, and General Dynamics Corporation. Some of these competitors have greater capital resources, longer operating histories, larger customer bases, and more established industry relationships than we do. We attempt to distinguish ourselves from our competitors by being large enough to provide the resources our customers need on a nationwide, self-performing, basis, while still maintaining our ability to be responsive, on a local level, to customer specific tasks that arise during any given engagement for services. Government Regulation Although we are not directly subject to any FCC or similar government regulations, the wireless networks that we design, deploy and manage are subject to these requirements. Those requirements dictate that the networks meet certain radio frequency emission standards, not cause unallowable interference to other services, and in some cases, accept interference from other services. Those networks are also subject to certain state and local government regulations and requirements. Major Suppliers and Vendors Historically, we have relied upon our own employees and subcontractors to perform services in order to fulfill our contractual obligations. Currently, the costs attributable to subcontractors represent approximately 65% of our cost of revenues. Over 40% of our subcontractor costs relate to fees paid to electrical and architectural and engineering (“A&E”) firms, as we do not hold electrical or A&E licenses in any of the jurisdictions where we operate. We do not rely on any one subcontractor, and we utilize subcontractors that meet our qualification standards, timeframes and the contractual requirements of our customers. Major Customers As of and for the year ended June 30, 2007, we derived 87% of our total revenues from our two largest customers, and those customers represented 77% of our accounts receivable. Of those customers, both of them individually represented greater than 5% of net revenues, and one of them represented greater than 10% of net revenues for the period. During the year ended June 30, 2007, Sprint Nextel Corporation represented 80% and T-Mobile USA, Inc. represented 7%. As of and for the year ended June 30, 2006, we had four customers that collectively represented approximately 83% of our net revenues and 83% of our accounts receivable. Of those customers, all of them individually represented greater than 5% of net revenues, and three of them represented greater than 10% of net revenues for the period. During the year ended June 30, 2006, Sprint Nextel Corporation represented 43%, T-Mobile USA, Inc. represented 20%, General Dynamics Corporation represented 12% and Metro PCS Communications, Inc. represented 8% of net revenues. Seasonality Incidents of inclement weather, particularly in the winter months, hinder our ability to complete certain outdoor activities relating to the provision of our services. Demand for our services is typically higher in the last few months of the calendar year, due primarily to acceleration of most customers’ capital expenditures for completing year-end projects, with a corresponding decrease in activity during the first few months of the following calendar year, typically because customers are evaluating their plans for such capital expenditures for the coming year during that period. 9 Backlog As of June 30, 2007 and 2006, our backlog was approximately $30.9 million ($16.9 million in infrastructure construction and technical services and $14.0 million in real estate acquisition and zoning) and $9.5 million, respectively. We currently anticipate completing those backlog orders by December 31, 2007. Employees As of June 30, 2007, we employed 330 full-time and 3 part-time employees. We anticipate the need to increase our work force as additional contracts for projects are received. None of our employees are represented by labor unions. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Although we have had net income in prior periods, we have experienced losses in the past and we may never achieve sustained profitability. Although we had net income during the years ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, we may not be profitable in future periods, either on a short or long-term basis. Prior to the year ended June 30, 2006, Old Berliner had historically incurred net losses. Old Berliner incurred a net loss of approximately $1.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2005 and $836 thousand for the year ended December 31, 2004. We can provide no assurances that losses will not recur in the future or that we will ever sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. To the extent that revenue declines or does not grow at anticipated rates, increases in operating expenses precede or are not subsequently followed by commensurate increases in revenue or we are unable to adjust operating expense levels accordingly, your investment could be jeopardized. We generate a substantial portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers, and if our relationships with such customers were harmed, our business would suffer. As of and for the year ended June 30, 2007, we derived 87% of our total revenues from our two largest customers, and those customers represented 77% of our accounts receivable. Of those customers, both of them individually represented greater than 5% of net revenues, and one of them represented greater than 10% of net revenues for the period. During the year ended June 30, 2007, Sprint Nextel Corporation represented 80% and T-Mobile USA, Inc. represented 7%. As of and for the year ended June 30, 2006, we had four customers that collectively represented approximately 83% of our net revenues and 83% of our accounts receivable. Of those customers, all of them individually represented greater than 5% of net revenues, and three of them represented greater than 10% of net revenues for the period. During the year ended June 30, 2006, Sprint Nextel Corporation represented 43%, T-Mobile USA, Inc. represented 20%, General Dynamics Corporation represented 12% and Metro PCS Communications, Inc. represented 8% of net revenues. We believe that a limited number of clients will continue to be the source of a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Key factors in maintaining our relationships with such customers include, without limitation, our performance on individual contracts and the strength of our professional reputation. To the extent that our performance does not meet client expectations, or our reputation or relationships with one or more key customers are impaired, this could cause a significant decrease in our revenue, which would negatively impact our ability to generate income. In addition, our key customers could slow or stop spending on initiatives related to projects we are performing for them, and this, while outside our control, could materially impair our operating results. 10 Our recent rapid growth has created challenges for our management, systems and resources, and this may impact our ability to effectively manage future growth, if any, as a result. We have grown rapidly during fiscal 2007. In early calendar 2007, we acquired three new businesses which have significantly expanded our operations, increased our number of employees, and extended our geographic footprint, and we are in the process of integrating these businesses into our existing operations. This rapid growth has placed a strain on our systems, processes, resources, management and other infrastructure and support mechanisms. We expect that any future growth may create additional challenges until such time as the integration of these acquisitions is more substantially complete. To manage the anticipated growth of our operations, we will be required to: · improve existing and implement new operational, financial and management information controls, reporting systems and procedures; · establish relationships with additional vendors, suppliers and strategic partners and maintain and expand our existing relationships; and · hire, train, manage and retain additional personnel, especially qualified sales and marketing, business development and financial reporting personnel. To the extent we are unable to assemble the personnel, controls, systems, procedures and relationships necessary to manage our future growth, if any, management resources may be diverted and our opportunity for success limited. If we experience delays and or defaults in customer payments, we could be unable to cover all expenditures. Because of the nature of our contracts, at times we commit resources to projects prior to receiving payments from our customers in amounts sufficient to cover expenditures on client projects as they are incurred. Delays in customer payments may require us to make a working capital investment, or obtain advances from our line of credit. If a customer defaults in making its payments on a project or projects in which we have devoted significant resources, it could have a material negative effect on our results of operations or negatively impact our financial covenants with our lenders. If the percentage of our revenue derived from construction-related activities increases, our gross margins may suffer. We have historically earned lower relative gross margins on engineering and construction-related activities. We typically perform our own network design-related, site acquisition-related services and hire subcontractors to perform engineering and construction services under our direct management. Subcontracted work generally carries lower profit margins than self-performed work. If the proportion of construction-related services we deliver increases, then our gross margins and net income may suffer. Recent and continuing consolidations among wireless service providers may result in a significant reduction in our existing and potential customer base, and, if we are unable to maintain our existing relations with such providers or expand such relationships, we could have a significant decrease in our revenue, which would negatively impact our ability to generate income as well as result in lower profitability. The level of merger activity among telecommunications operators has increased markedly in the past three years and this trend is continuing. One of our customers, Sprint, has merged with Nextel. These consolidations have and will reduce the number of companies composing that portion of our customer base consisting of wireless service providers. To the extent that these combined companies decide to reduce the number of their service providers, our already highly competitive market environment will become more competitive, at least in the short term, as the same number of service providers will seek business from a reduced number of potential customers. Because we have historically derived a significant portion of our revenue in any given year from a limited number of customers, we may not be able to reduce costs in response to any decrease in our revenue. If we are unable to maintain our existing relations with these companies or expand such relationships, we could have a significant decrease in our revenue, which would negatively impact our ability to generate income. 11 We may need additional working capital, the lack of which would likely have a significant negative impact on our ability to grow our business. We may require additional working capital in order to fund the growth of our operations. If adequate funds are not available on terms acceptable to us, we may not be able to effectively grow our operations and expand our business. Our ability to fund our operations and corporate infrastructure is directly related to the continued availability of these and other funding sources. In order to grow our business, we may incur significant operating, borrowing and other costs. Should our operations require additional funding or our capital requirements exceed current estimates, we could be required to seek additional financing in the future. We can provide no assurances that we would be able to raise such financing when needed or on acceptable terms. As a result, we may be forced to reduce or delay additional expenditures or otherwise delay, curtail or discontinue some or all of our operations. Further, if we are able to access additional capital through borrowings, such debt would increase our debt obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our business is dependent upon our ability to keep pace with the latest technological changes. The market for our services is characterized by rapid change and technological improvements. Failure to respond in a timely and cost-effective way to these technological developments will result in serious harm to our business and operating results. We have derived, and we expect to continue to derive, a substantial portion of our revenue from creating wireless networks that are based upon today’s leading technologies and that are capable of adapting to future technologies. As a result, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and market service offerings that respond in a timely manner to the technological advances of our customers, evolving industry standards and changing client preferences. Our success is dependent on growth in the deployment of wireless networks and new technology upgrades, and to the extent that such growth slows, our business may be harmed. Telecommunications carriers are constantly re-evaluating their network deployment plans in response to trends in the capital markets, changing perceptions regarding industry growth, the adoption of new wireless technologies, increasing pricing competition for subscribers and general economic conditions in the United States and internationally. If the rate of network deployment slows and carriers reduce their capital investments in wireless infrastructure or fail to expand into new geographic areas, our business may be significantly harmed. The uncertainty associated with rapidly changing telecommunications technologies may also negatively impact the rate of deployment of wireless networks and the demand for our services. Telecommunications service providers face significant challenges in assessing consumer demand and in acceptance of rapidly changing enhanced telecommunications capabilities. If telecommunications service providers perceive that the rate of acceptance of next generation telecommunications products will grow more slowly than previously expected, they may, as a result, slow their development of next generation technologies. Moreover, increasing price competition for subscribers could adversely affect the profitability of carriers and limit their resources for network deployment. Any significant sustained slowdown will further reduce the demand for our services and adversely affect our financial results. Delays in the adoption and deployment of next generation wireless networks could negatively affect the demand for our services and our ability to grow our revenue. Wireless service providers may delay their development of next generation technology if, among other things, they expect slow growth in the adoption of such technology, reduced profitability due to price competition for subscribers or regulatory delays. For example, even though wireless service providers have made substantial investments worldwide in acquiring third generation, or 3G licenses, some providers have delayed deployment of 3G networks. Since we expect that a substantial portion of our growth will be derived from our services related to new technologies, further delays in the adoption and deployment of these technologies, such as 3G and fourth generation, or 4G, would negatively affect the demand for our services and our ability to grow our revenue. We bear the risk of cost overruns in some of our contracts. We conduct our business under various types of contractual arrangements. Under such contracts, prices are established, in part, on cost and scheduling estimates, which are based on a number of assumptions, including, without limitation, assumptions about future economic conditions, prices and availability of labor, equipment and materials, and other exigencies. If those estimates prove inaccurate, or circumstances change, cost overruns may occur, and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project. 12 Our dependence on subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could adversely affect us. We rely on third-party subcontractors as well as third-party equipment manufacturers to complete our projects. To the extent that we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials, our ability to complete a project in a timely fashion or at a profit may be impaired. If the amount we are required to pay for these goods and services exceeds the amount we have estimated in bidding for fixed-price contracts, we could experience losses in the performance of these contracts. In addition, if a subcontractor or a manufacturer is unable to deliver its services, equipment or materials according to the negotiated terms for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition, we may be required to purchase the services, equipment or materials from another source at a higher price. This may reduce the profit to be realized or result in a loss on a project for which the services, equipment or materials were needed. If we guarantee the timely completion or performance standard of a project, we could incur significant, additional costs. In some instances, we guarantee to a customer that we will complete a project by a scheduled date. The contract sometimes provides that the project, when completed, will also achieve certain performance standards. If we subsequently fail to complete the project as scheduled, or if the project falls short of guaranteed performance standards, we may be held responsible for cost impacts to the client resulting from any delay or the costs to cause the project to achieve such performance standards. In some cases, where we fail to meet those performance standards, we may also be subject to agreed-upon liquidated damages. To the extent that these events occur, the total costs of the project could exceed its original estimates and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project. The nature of our engineering and construction business exposes us to potential liability claims and contract disputes that may negatively affect our results of operations. We engage in engineering and construction activities for wireless networks where design, construction or systems failures can result in substantial injury or damage to third parties. Any liability in excess of insurance limits at locations engineered or constructed by us could result in significant liability claims against us, which claims may negatively affect our results of operations, perhaps materially. In addition, if there is a customer dispute regarding our performance of project services, the customer may decide to delay or withhold payment to us. If we were ultimately unable to collect on these payments, our results of operations would be negatively impacted, perhaps materially. We maintain a workforce based upon current and anticipated workloads. If we do not receive future contract awards or if these awards are delayed, we may incur significant costs in meeting workforce demands. Our estimates of future performance depend on, among other matters, whether and when we will receive certain new contract awards. While our estimates are based upon our good faith judgment, they can be unreliable and may frequently change based on newly available information. In the case of our larger projects where timing is often uncertain, it is particularly difficult to project whether and when we will receive a contract award. The uncertainty of contract award timing can present difficulties in matching our workforce size with our contract needs. If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, we could incur costs resulting from reductions in staff or redundancy of facilities that would have the effect of negatively impacting our operating performance. We may not be able to hire or retain a sufficient number of qualified engineers and other employees to meet our contractual obligations or maintain the quality of our services. As a service business, our ultimate success depends significantly on our ability to attract, train and retain engineering, system deployment, managerial, marketing and sales personnel who have excellent technical and interpersonal skills. Competition for employees with the required range of skills fluctuates, depending on customer needs, and can be intense, particularly for radio frequency engineers. At times, we have had difficulty recruiting and retaining qualified technical personnel to properly and quickly staff large customer projects. In addition to recruitment difficulties, we must fully and properly train our employees according to our customers’ technology requirements and deploy and fully integrate each employee into our customers’ projects. Increased competition in the wireless industry is increasing the level of specific technical experience and training required to fulfill customer-staffing requirements. This process is costly and resource constraints may impede our ability to quickly and effectively train and deploy all of the personnel required to staff a large project. 13 Intense competition in the engineering and construction industry could reduce our market share. We serve markets that are highly competitive and in which a large number of multinational companies compete. In particular, the engineering and construction markets are highly competitive and require substantial resources and capital investment in equipment, technology and skilled personnel. Competition also places downward pressure on our contract prices and profit margins. Intense competition is expected to continue in these markets. If we are unable to meet these competitive challenges, we could lose market share to our competitors and experience an overall reduction in our operating performance. We are vulnerable to the cyclical nature of the market we serve. The demand for our services and products is dependent upon the existence of projects with engineering, procurement, construction and management needs. The telecommunications market, where we principally compete, is particularly cyclical in nature. Such industries have historically been and will continue to be vulnerable to general downturns and are cyclical in nature. As a result, our past results have varied considerably and our performance may continue to be volatile, depending upon the demand for future projects in the industry. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly results as a result of uncertainties relating to our ability to generate additional revenue, manage expenditures and other factors, certain of which are outside of our control. Our operating results have varied considerably in the past, and may continue to do so, due to a number of factors. Many of these factors are outside our control and include, without limitation, the following: § financing provided to potential customers; § the commencement, progress, completion or termination of contracts during any particular quarter; § the availability of equipment to deploy new technologies, such as 4G and broadband; § the growth rate of wireless subscribers, which has a direct impact on the rate at which new cell sites are developed and built; and § telecommunications market conditions and economic conditions generally. Due to these factors, our results for a particular quarter, and therefore, our combined results for that same period, may not meet the expectations of investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly. Our stock price is volatile and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Historically, our stock price has been volatile. The stock market in general, and the market for telecommunications companies in particular, has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, investors may not be able to sell their common stock at or above their respective purchase prices. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including, but not limited to, variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us, investors’ perceptions of us, the number of our shares available in the market, future sales of our common stock, and general economic, industry and market conditions. 14 There is a lack of a public market for our shares, which limits our shareholders ability to sell their shares. There is currently a limited public market for our shares, and we cannot assure you that a more active market for our stock will develop. Consequently, investors may not be able to liquidate their shares at a suitable price, or at all. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, long sales cycles, we expect to incur significant costs to generate new business and our customer base may not experience growth commensurate with such costs. Historically, purchases of our services by customers often entailed a lengthy decision-making process for the customer. Selecting wireless network deployment services involves substantial costs and has strategic implications. Senior management of the customer is often involved in this process, given the importance of the decision, as well as the risks faced by the customer if the services do not meet the customer’s particular needs. We may expend substantial funds and effort to negotiate agreements for these services, but may ultimately be unable to consummate agreements for services and expand our customer base. As a result of lengthy sales cycles, we expect to continue to incur relatively high costs to generate new business. If we are unable to identify and complete future acquisitions, we may be unable to continue our growth. We may not be able to identify additional, attractive acquisition opportunities. Even if we identify favorable acquisition targets, there is no guarantee that we can acquire them on reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to complete attractive acquisitions, the growth that we have experienced over the last three fiscal years may decline. We may be subject to additional liability for state sales tax. In January 2007, we received an informal notice of assessment in the amount of $1.8 million from a state tax authority, including unpaid sales taxes, penalties and interest for the years 1998 through 2004. We had previously recorded $175 thousand in the year ended June 30, 2006 related to these potential taxes, and have increased our estimated reserve for the year ended June 30, 2007 to $0.6 million based on the notice from the taxing authority and our revised best estimate of the potential liability. Our best estimate may not be correct, and we could be required to pay the entire $1.8 million, with the possibility of additional penalties and interest, and also additional amounts for tax periods dating after 2004. If we owe any amounts over and above our estimate of $0.6 million, we will revise our accrued liabilities, and increase our selling, general and administrative expenses in the period when we become aware of these additional amounts, and this could materially impact our results of operations for that period. We may not be able to register the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our 7% Senior Subordinated Secured Convertible Notes Due 2008 and exercise of certain of our outstanding warrants, which may subject us to financial penalties. The Note Purchase Agreement we entered into in connection with our financings with Sigma Opportunity Fund, LLC (“Sigma”), Pacific Asset Partners, LP (“Pacific”), Operis Partners I, LLC (“Operis”) and Sigma Berliner, LLC (collectively the “Noteholders”) requires that we file and make effective a registration statement with the SEC covering the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of each of the 7% Senior Subordinated Secured Convertible Notes Due 2008 (the “Notes”) and exercise of the accompanying warrants. We were required to use our best efforts to have the SEC declare this registration statement effective prior to June 15, 2007, and we were unable to meet this deadline. Therefore, pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement, we became subject to damages equal to 2% of the aggregate purchase price paid by each Noteholder for each of the first six months that we failed to meet the requirement. On September 27, 2007, we signed a Waiver and Amendment to Note Purchase Agreement with the Noteholders whereby the Noteholders agreed to waive this damages clause in exchange for our agreement to lower the conversion price of the Notes from $1.10 to $1.00 per share. Pursuant to this Waiver and Amendment to Note Purchase Agreement, we have agreed to continue to use our best efforts to register the shares underlying the Notes and the associated warrants, and to maintain the effectiveness of any registration statement we file with respect to these shares. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to cause a registration statement covering the shares to be declared effective, or that we will be able to keep any such registration statement effective. If we are unable to meet the registration requirements set forth in the Waiver and Amended Note Purchase Agreement, we may be subject to additional damages. 15 Our 7% Senior Subordinated Secured Convertible Notes Due 2008 and the related Note Purchase Agreement contain restrictions that may limit our flexibility to take certain actions in the future, including raising additional capital. Our 7% Senior Subordinated Secured Convertible Notes Due 2008 contain provisions that, among other things, limit our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • transfer or sell substantially all of our assets; • incur liens; • issue certain securities; and • enter into transactions with affiliates. In addition, if we issue any securities at prices below their fair market value on the date of issue (as defined in the Notes), the conversion price of the Notes and the exercise price of our outstanding warrants will be reduced proportionately, causing further dilution to our common shareholders. The Note Purchase Agreement also gives the purchasers preemptive rights to participate in any subsequent issuances of our securities. These and other restrictions in the Notes and the Note Purchase Agreement may prevent us from raising capital in the future on advantageous terms, or at all, and may restrict some of our operating flexibility. A default on our debt obligations could result in foreclosure on all of our assets. We have issued an aggregate of $6.0 million of our 7% Senior Subordinated Secured Convertible Notes Due December 29, 2008, which are secured by substantially all of our accounts, inventory, furniture, fixtures, equipment, general intangibles, patents, licenses, investment property, promissory notes, instruments, documents and tangible and electronic chattel paper (collectively, the “Collateral”), and all proceeds, products, rents and profits from the Collateral. In addition, we have secured additional financing through an $8.0 million credit facility with Presidential Financial Corp. An Event of Default with respect to either of these obligations could result in, among other things, the acceleration and demand for payment of all principal and interest due and the foreclosure on the Collateral. The sale of such Collateral at foreclosure would result in a substantial disruption in our ability to operate our business and could significantly lower our revenues and profitability. We may not be able to refinance or obtain extensions of the maturities of all or some of such debt only on terms that significantly restrict our ability to operate, including terms that place limitations on our ability to incur other indebtedness, to pay dividends, to use our assets as collateral for other financings, to sell assets or to make acquisitions or enter into other transactions. Such restrictions may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or to engage in other business activities. If we finance the repayment of our outstanding indebtedness by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, such issuances could result in substantial dilution to our stockholders. 16 ITEM 