risk factors, as well as stop-loss triggers and counterparty credit exposure limits. Despite this, there can be no assurance that all risks have been accurately identified, measured and/or mitigated. In executing agreements with counterparties to conduct hedging or trading activities, EME generally provides credit support when necessary through margining arrangements (agreements to provide or receive collateral, letters of credit or guarantees based on changes in the market price of the underlying contract under specific terms). To manage its liquidity, EME assesses the potential impact of future price changes in determining the amount of collateral requirements under existing or anticipated forward contracts. There is no assurance that EME’s liquidity will be adequate to meet margin calls from counterparties in the case of extreme market changes or that the failure to meet such cash requirements would not have a material adverse effect on its liquidity. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” See “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks Relating to EMG.” Significant Customers In the past three fiscal years, EME’s merchant plants sold electric power generally into the PJM market by participating in PJM’s capacity and energy markets or by selling capacity and energy on a bilateral basis. Sales into PJM accounted for approximately 50%, 51% and 58% of EME’s consolidated operating revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Beginning in January 2007, EME also derived a significant source of its revenues from the sale of energy, capacity and ancillary services generated at the Illinois Plants to Commonwealth Edison under load requirements services contracts. Sales under these contracts accounted for 12% and 19% of EME’s consolidated operating revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2008, a third customer, Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. accounted for 10% of EME’s consolidated operating revenues. Sales to Constellation are primarily generated from EME’s merchant plants and largely consist of energy sales under forward contracts. Insurance of EME EME maintains insurance policies consistent with those normally carried by companies engaged in similar business and owning similar properties. EME’s insurance program includes all-risk property insurance, including business interruption, covering real and personal property, including losses from boilers, machinery breakdowns, and the perils of earthquake and flood, subject to specific sublimits. EME also carries general liability insurance covering liabilities to third parties for bodily injury or property damage resulting from operations, automobile liability insurance and excess liability insurance. Limits and deductibles in respect of these insurance policies are comparable to those carried by other electric generating facilities of similar size. However, no assurance can be given that EME’s insurance will be adequate to cover all losses. The EME Homer City property insurance program currently covers losses up to $1.325 billion. Under the terms of the participation agreements entered into on December 7, 2001 as part of the sale-leaseback transaction of the Homer City facilities, EME Homer City is required to maintain specified minimum insurance coverages if and to the extent that such insurance is available on a commercially reasonable basis. Although the insurance covering the Homer City facilities is comparable to insurance coverages normally carried by companies engaged in similar businesses, and owning similar properties, the insurance coverages that are in place do not meet the minimum insurance coverages required under the participation agreements. Due to the current market environment, the minimum insurance coverage is not commercially available at reasonable prices. EME Homer City has obtained a waiver under the participation agreements which will permit it to maintain its current insurance coverage through June 1, 2009. Seasonality of EME Due to higher electric demand resulting from warmer weather during the summer months and cold weather during the winter months, electric revenues from the Illinois Plants and the Homer City facilities vary 24 Table of Contents substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, maintenance outages generally are scheduled during periods of lower projected electric demand (spring and fall) further reducing generation and increasing major maintenance costs which are recorded as an expense when incurred. Accordingly, earnings from the Illinois Plants and the Homer City facilities are seasonal and have significant variability from quarter to quarter. Seasonal fluctuations may also be affected by changes in market prices. See “EMG: Market Risk Exposures — Commodity Price Risk — Energy Price Risk Affecting Sales from the Illinois Plants” and “— Energy Price Risk Affecting Sales from the Homer City Facilities” in the MD&A for further discussion regarding market prices. EME’s third quarter equity in income from its energy projects is materially higher than equity in income related to other quarters of the year due to warmer weather during the summer months and because a number of EME’s energy projects located on the West Coast have power sales contracts that provide for higher payments during the summer months. Regulation of EME General EME’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by governmental agencies. EME’s operating projects are subject to energy, environmental and other governmental laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels in connection with the development, ownership and operation of its projects, and the use of electric energy, capacity and related products, including ancillary services from its projects. In addition, EME is subject to the market rules, procedures, and protocols of the markets in which it participates. The laws and regulations that affect EME and its operations are in a state of flux. Complex and changing environmental and other regulatory requirements could necessitate substantial expenditures and could create a significant risk of expensive delays or significant loss of value if a project were to become unable to function as planned due to changing requirements or local opposition. United States Federal Energy Regulation The FERC has ratemaking jurisdiction and other authority with respect to wholesale sales and interstate transmission of electric energy (other than transmission that is “bundled” with retail sales) under the FPA and with respect to certain interstate sales, transportation and storage of natural gas under the Natural Gas Act of 1938. The enactment of PURPA and the adoption of regulations under PURPA by the FERC provided incentives for the development of cogeneration facilities and small power production facilities using alternative or renewable fuels by establishing certain exemptions from the FPA and PUHCA 1935 for the owners of qualifying facilities. Independent power production has been further encouraged by the passage of the Energy Policy Act in 1992, which provided additional exemptions from PUHCA 1935 for EWGs and foreign utility companies, and the EPAct of 2005, which included provisions for the repeal of PUHCA 1935, amendments to PURPA, merger review reform, the introduction of new regulations regarding transmission operation improvements, FERC authority to impose civil penalties for violation of its regulations, transmission rate reform, incentives for various generation technologies and the extension of production tax credits for wind and other specified types of generation. Federal Power Act The FPA grants the FERC exclusive jurisdiction over the rates, terms and conditions of wholesale sales of electricity and transmission services in interstate commerce (other than transmission that is “bundled” with retail sales), including ongoing, as well as initial, rate jurisdiction. This jurisdiction allows the FERC to revoke or modify previously approved rates after notice and opportunity for hearing. These rates may be based on a cost-of-service approach or, in geographic and product markets determined by the FERC to be workably competitive, may be market based. Most qualifying facilities, as that term is defined in PURPA, are exempt from the ratemaking and several other provisions of the FPA. EWGs certified in accordance with the FERC’s rules under PUHCA 2005 are subject to 25 Table of Contents the FPA and to the FERC’s ratemaking jurisdiction thereunder, but the FERC typically grants EWGs the authority to sell power at market-based rates to purchasers which are not affiliated electric utility companies as long as the absence of market power is shown. As of December 31, 2008, EME’s power marketing subsidiaries, including EMMT, and a number of EME’s operating projects, including the Homer City facilities and the Illinois Plants, were authorized by the FERC to make wholesale market sales of power at market-based rates and were subject to the FERC ratemaking regulation under the FPA. EME’s future domestic non-qualifying facility independent power projects will also be subject to the FERC jurisdiction on rates. The FPA also grants the FERC jurisdiction over the sale or transfer of specified assets, including wholesale power sales contracts and generation facilities, and in some cases, jurisdiction over the issuance of securities or the assumption of specified liabilities and some interlocking directorates. Dispositions of EME’s jurisdictional assets or certain types of financing arrangements may require FERC approval. Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 PURPA provides two primary benefits to qualifying facilities. First, all cogeneration facilities that are qualifying facilities are exempt from certain provisions of the FPA and regulations of the FERC thereunder. Second, the FERC regulations promulgated under PURPA required that electric utilities purchase electricity generated by qualifying facilities at a price based on the purchasing utility’s avoided cost (unless, pursuant to EPAct 2005, the FERC has determined that the relevant market meets certain conditions for competitive, nondiscriminatory access), and that the utilities sell back up power to the qualifying facility on a nondiscriminatory basis. The FERC’s regulations also permitted qualifying facilities and utilities to negotiate agreements for utility purchases of power at prices different from the utility’s avoided costs. Several of EME’s projects, including the Big 4 projects, the Westside projects, American Bituminous, and March Point, are qualifying cogeneration facilities. To be a qualifying cogeneration facility, a cogeneration facility must produce electricity and useful thermal energy for an industrial or commercial process or heating or cooling applications in certain proportions to the facility’s total energy output, and must meet certain efficiency standards. If one of the projects in which EME has an interest were to lose its qualifying facility status, the project would no longer be entitled to the qualifying facility-related exemptions from regulation. As a result, the project could become subject to rate regulation by the FERC under the FPA and additional state regulation. Loss of qualifying facility status could also trigger defaults under covenants to maintain qualifying facility status in the project’s power sales agreements, steam sales agreements and financing agreements and result in refund claims from utility customers, termination, penalties or acceleration of indebtedness under such agreements. If a power purchaser were to cease taking and paying for electricity or were to seek to obtain refunds of past amounts paid because of the loss of qualifying facility status, it might not be possible to recover the costs incurred in connection with the project through sales to other purchasers. EME endeavors to monitor regulatory compliance by its qualifying facility projects in a manner that minimizes the risks of losing these projects’ qualifying facility status. Transmission of Wholesale Power Generally, projects that sell power to wholesale purchasers other than the local utility to which the project is interconnected require the transmission of electricity over power lines owned by others. This transmission service over the lines of intervening transmission owners is also known as wheeling. The prices and other terms and conditions of transmission contracts are regulated by the FERC when the entity providing the transmission service is a jurisdictional public utility under the FPA. The Energy Policy Act of 1992 laid the groundwork for a competitive wholesale market for electricity by, among other things, expanding the FERC’s authority to order electric utilities to transmit third-party electricity over their transmission lines, thus allowing qualifying facilities under PURPA, power marketers and those qualifying as EWGs under PUHCA 1935 to more effectively compete in the wholesale market. 26 Table of Contents Illinois Power Procurement The Illinois Power Agency Act, signed into law on August 28, 2007, establishes a new process for Commonwealth Edison and the Ameren Illinois utilities to procure power for their bundled-rate customers. On July 1, 2008, the two utilities began procuring power for bundled-rate customers by means of existing full requirements contracts that have not yet expired, certain multi-year swap contracts that they entered into with their affiliates pursuant to the Illinois Power Agency Act, and a competitive request for proposal procurement of standard wholesale power products run by independent procurement administrators with the oversight and approval of the Illinois Commerce Commission. The Illinois Power Agency Act provides further that starting in June 2009, a newly created Illinois Power Agency will be responsible for the administration, planning and procurement of power for Commonwealth Edison and the Ameren Illinois utilities’ bundled-rate customers using a portfolio-managed approach that is to include competitively procured standard wholesale products and renewable energy resources. The Illinois Commerce Commission will continue in its role of oversight and approval of the power planning and procurement for bundled retail customers of the utilities. On January 7, 2009, the Illinois Commerce Commission approved a procurement plan for 2009 that was proposed by the Illinois Power Agency. The plan, which is based on five-year demand forecasts, proposes a laddered procurement strategy for the period beginning in 2009 and ending in 2014. In 2009, the Illinois Power Agency is expected to acquire through a single request for proposals roughly one third of the forecasted demand for bundled load for Commonwealth Edison and Ameren. Renewable requirements, in the first year, will be purchased by way of one-year renewable energy credits; longer contracts may be included in future procurements if required by law or if approved by the Illinois Commerce Commission. The Illinois Power Agency issued its request for proposals in February 2009 and plans to conduct its procurement between mid-March and mid-April 2009. PJM Matters On June 1, 2007, PJM implemented the RPM for capacity. The purpose of the RPM is to provide a long-term pricing signal for capacity resources. The RPM provides a mechanism for PJM to satisfy the region’s need for generation capacity, the cost of which is allocated to load-serving entities through a locational reliability charge. Also on June 1, 2007, PJM implemented marginal losses for transmission for its competitive wholesale electric market. For further discussion regarding the RPM and recent auctions, see “EMG: Market Risk Exposures — Commodity Price Risk — Capacity Price Risk” in the MD&A. RPM Buyers’ Complaint On May 30, 2008, a group of entities referring to themselves as the “RPM Buyers” filed a complaint at the FERC asking that PJM’s RPM, as implemented through the transitional base residual auctions establishing capacity payments for the period from June 1, 2008 through May 31, 2011, be found to have produced unjust and unreasonable capacity prices. On September 19, 2008, the FERC dismissed the RPM Buyers’ complaint, finding that the RPM Buyers had failed to allege or prove that any party violated PJM’s tariff and market rules, and that the prices determined during the transition period were determined in accordance with PJM’s FERC-approved tariff. On October 20, 2008, the RPM Buyers requested rehearing of the FERC’s order dismissing their complaint. This matter is currently pending before the FERC. EME cannot predict the outcome of this matter. RPM CONE On December 12, 2008, PJM submitted revised RPM Tariff sheets pursuant to Section 205 of the FPA, proposing RPM auction modifications (relating to CONE) values, including a proposal to modify how scarcity pricing revenues are incorporated in the Net Energy and Ancillary Services Revenue Offset, new rules for participation of demand side management resources in the RPM auctions, and a proposed holdback of 2.5% of the reliability requirement from the Base Residual Auction. The CONE is used to construct the demand curve for RPM auctions, and its level affects the clearing price for those auctions (which is determined at the intersection of the supply and demand curves). 27 Table of Contents On February 9, 2009, PJM and several other parties to the proceedings filed a proposed settlement with the FERC with a proposed effective date of March 27, 2009. The CONE values in the proposed settlement represent a 10% decrease from those contained in PJM’s December 12, 2008 filing. The proposed settlement would retain the 2.5% holdback proposed in PJM’s December 12 filing and would increase the length of forward commitment for new capacity resources to seven years, instead of the five years originally proposed by PJM. There was a high level of opposition to PJM’s proposed modifications from buyers and consumers, and a similarly high level of opposition is expected with respect to the proposed settlement. The effect of the FERC’s actions on future RPM auctions cannot be determined at this time. The CONE as proposed for the May 2009 RPM auction for the 2012/2013 delivery year is higher than what is currently effective in the tariff. Environmental Matters Affecting EME Climate Change The ultimate outcome of the climate change debate could have a significant economic effect on EME. Any legal obligation that would require EME to reduce substantially its emissions of CO2 or that would impose additional costs or charges for the emission of CO2 could have a materially adverse effect on EME. EME will continue to monitor the federal, regional and state developments relating to regulation of GHG emissions to determine their impact on its operations. Requirements to reduce emissions of CO2 and other GHG emissions could significantly increase the cost of generating electricity from fossil fuels, especially coal, as well as the cost of purchased power. Utility purchasers of power generated by EME’s power plants in California are subject to the EPS requirements of SB 1368. At this time, EME believes that all of its facilities in California meet the GHG EPS contemplated by SB1368, but will continue to monitor the regulations, as they are developed, for potential impact on existing facilities and projects under development. Air Quality Regulation Federal environmental regulations require reductions in emissions beginning in 2009 and require states to adopt implementation plans that are equal to or more stringent than the federal requirements. Compliance with these regulations and SIPs will affect the costs and the manner in which EME conducts its business, and is expected to require EME to make substantial additional capital expenditures. There is no assurance that EME would be able to recover these increased costs from its customers or that EME’s financial position and results of operations would not be materially adversely affected as a result. Clean Air Interstate Rule EME expects that compliance with the CAIR and the regulations and revised SIPs developed as a consequence of the CAIR will result in increased capital expenditures and operating expenses. EME’s approach to meeting these obligations will consist of a blending of capital expenditure and emission allowance purchases that will be based on an ongoing assessment of the dynamics of its market conditions. Illinois On December 11, 2006, Midwest Generation entered into an agreement with the Illinois EPA to reduce mercury, NOx and SO2 emissions at the Illinois Plants. The agreement has been embodied in an Illinois rule called the Combined Pollutant Standard or CPS. All of Midwest Generation’s Illinois coal-fired electric generating units are subject to the CPS. For further discussion of the CPS, see information under the heading “Other Developments — Environmental Matters — Air Quality Regulation — Clean Air Interstate Rule — Illinois” in the MD&A. 28 Table of Contents Pennsylvania On December 18, 2007, the Pennsylvania Environmental Quality Board approved the Pennsylvania CAIR. This rule has been submitted to the US EPA for approval as part of the Pennsylvania SIP. The Pennsylvania CAIR is substantively similar to the CAIR. EME Homer City will be subject to the federal CAIR rule during 2009 and expects to be able to comply with the NOx requirement using its existing SCR system. The Pennsylvania CAIR, including both NOx and SO2 limits, is expected to become effective in 2010. EME Homer City expects to comply with Pennsylvania CAIR through the continued operation of its scrubber on Unit 3 to reduce SO2 emissions and the purchase of SO2 allowances. Clean Air Mercury Rule EME’s coal-fired electric generating facilities are already subject to significant unit-specific mercury emission reduction requirements under Illinois and Pennsylvania law. As discussed in the MD&A, under the heading “Other Developments — Environmental Matters — Air Quality Regulation — Clean Air Mercury Rule,” in February 2008, the D.C. Circuit Court vacated the CAMR and in February 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court declined to review the D.C. Circuit’s decision. Until CAMR is replaced by a new mercury rule, mercury regulation will come from state regulatory bodies. As described below, EME’s coal-fired electric generating facilities are already subject to significant unit-specific mercury emission reduction requirements under Illinois and Pennsylvania law (although, as noted below, a Pennsylvania court has recently invalidated Pennsylvania’s mercury regulations). Until new federal standards are developed, EME will not be able to determine whether it will be necessary to undertake measures beyond those required by state regulations. Illinois The final state rule for the reduction of mercury emissions in Illinois was adopted and became effective on December 21, 2006. The rule requires a 90% reduction of mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants averaged across company-owned Illinois stations and a minimum reduction of 75% for individual generating sources by July 1, 2009. The rule requires each station to achieve a 90% reduction by January 1, 2014 and, because emissions are measured on a rolling 12-month average, stations must install equipment necessary to meet the January 1, 2014, 90% reduction by January 1, 2013. On December 11, 2006, Midwest Generation entered into an agreement with the Illinois EPA to reduce mercury, NOX and SO2 emissions at the Illinois Plants. The agreement has been embodied in an Illinois rule called the CPS. Midwest Generation’s compliance with the CPS supersedes the mercury rule described above for the Illinois Plants. The principal emission standards and control technology requirements for mercury under the CPS are as described below: Beginning in calendar year 2015, and continuing thereafter on a rolling 12-month basis, Midwest Generation must either achieve an emission standard of .008 lbs mercury/GWh gross electrical output or a minimum 90% reduction in mercury for each unit (except Unit 3 at the Will County Station, which shall be included in calendar year 2016). In addition to these standards, Midwest Generation must install and operate the following specific control technologies: • Activated carbon injection equipment on all operating units at the Crawford, Fisk and Waukegan Stations by July 1, 2008, and on all operating units at the Powerton, Will County and Joliet Stations by July 1, 2009. • Cold side electrostatic precipitator or baghouse on Unit 7 at the Waukegan Station by December 31, 2013 and on Unit 3 at the Will County Station by December 31, 2015. Midwest Generation has installed activated carbon injection technology for the removal of mercury in 2008 for Crawford, Fisk and Waukegan Stations and is in the process of installing this technology in 2009 for Joliet, Powerton and Will County Stations. Capital expenditures relating to these controls were $37 million through 2008 and are expected to be $6 million in 2009. 29 Table of Contents Pennsylvania On February 17, 2007, the PADEP published in the Pennsylvania Bulletin regulations that would require coal-fired power plants to reduce mercury emissions by 80% by 2010 and 90% by 2015. The rule does not allow the use of emissions trading to achieve compliance. The rule became final upon publication. The Pennsylvania CAMR SIP, which embodies PADEP’s mercury regulation, was pending approval by the US EPA prior to the February 8, 2008 Court of Appeals decision vacating the federal CAMR. On September 15, 2008, PPL Generation filed a Petition for Review with the Commonwealth Court seeking relief from Pennsylvania’s mercury rule for coal-fired power plants, alleging that the PADEP cannot regulate power plant emission sources under Section 111 of the CAA, but must instead consider emission controls on a case-by-case basis as required by Section 112. On January 30, 2009, the Court issued an opinion declaring Pennsylvania’s mercury rule unlawful, invalid and unenforceable, and enjoining Pennsylvania from continued implementation and enforcement of the rule. The PADEP has appealed this matter to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court. EME cannot predict the outcome of this matter. If the Homer City facilities are required to meet the 2010 deadline for mercury emissions reductions, EME Homer City would plan to achieve compliance by operating an existing FGD system on one generating unit and utilizing an appropriate combination of sorbent injection and coal washing on the other two units. In order to meet reductions in emissions by the 2015 deadline, it is likely that additional environmental control equipment will need to be installed. If additional environmental equipment is required in the form of FGD equipment, EME would need to make commitments during 2011 or 2012. EME continues to study available environmental control technologies and estimated costs to reduce SO2 and mercury and to monitor developments related to mercury and other environmental regulations. Ambient Air Quality Standards The US EPA designated non-attainment areas for its 8-hour ozone standard on April 30, 2004, and for its fine particulate matter standard on January 5, 2005. Almost all of EME’s facilities are located in counties that have been identified as being in non-attainment with both standards. On September 22, 2006, the US EPA issued a final rule that implements the revisions to its fine particulate standard originally proposed on January 17, 2006. Under the new rule, the annual standard remains the same as originally proposed but the 24-hour fine particulate standard is significantly more stringent. On February 24, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit remanded the annual fine particulate matter standard to the US EPA for review. The more stringent 24-hour fine particulate standard (and, depending on the course of the remand, a further revised annual standard) may require states to impose further emission reductions beyond those necessary to meet the existing standards. Edison International anticipates that any such further emission reduction obligations would not be imposed under this standard until 2015 at the earliest, and intends to consider such rules as part of its overall plan for environmental compliance. On March 12, 2008, the US EPA issued a final rule to make revisions in the primary and secondary national ambient air quality standards for ozone. With regard to the primary and standards for ozone, US EPA reduced the level of the 8-hour standard to 0.075 parts per million (ppm). The US EPA solicited comment on alternative levels down to 0.060 ppm and up to and including retaining the current 8-hour standard of 0.080 ppm (effectively 0.084 ppm using current data rounding conventions). The rule may require states to impose further emission reductions beyond those necessary to meet the existing standards, Edison International anticipates that any such further emission reduction obligations would not be imposed under this standard until 2015 at the earliest, and intends to consider such rules as part of its overall plan for environmental compliance. Illinois Beginning with the 2003 ozone season (May 1 through September 30), EME has been required to comply with an average NOx emission rate of 0.25 lb NOx/MMBtu of heat input. This limitation is commonly referred to as the East St. Louis State Implementation Plan. This regulation is a State of Illinois requirement. Each of the Illinois Plants complied with this standard in 2004. Beginning with the 2004 ozone season, the Illinois Plants 30 Table of Contents became subject to the federally mandated “NOx SIP Call” regulation that provided ozone-season NOx emission allowances to a 19-state region east of the Mississippi. This program provides for NOx allowance trading similar to the SO2 (acid rain) trading program already in effect. The Illinois Plants have complied with the NOx regulations by installing advanced burner technology and by purchasing additional allowances. Midwest Generation plans to continue to purchase allowances as it implements the agreement it reached with the Illinois EPA, but expects to purchase fewer allowances as the required technology improvements are implemented. The Illinois EPA has begun to develop SIPs to meet National Ambient Air Quality Standards for 8-hour ozone and fine particulates with the intent of bringing non-attainment areas, such as Chicago, into attainment. The SIPs are expected to deal with all emission sources, not just power generators, and to address emissions of NOx, SO2, and volatile organic compounds. The SIP for 8-hour ozone was to be submitted to the US EPA by June 15, 2007, but is currently expected to be submitted in early 2009. The SIP for fine particulates was to be submitted to the US EPA by April 5, 2008, but is currently expected to be submitted in 2010. The CPS requires Midwest Generation to install air pollution controls that will contribute to attainment with the ozone and fine particulate matter per National Ambient Air Quality Standards. Edison International does not know at this time whether the reductions required by the CPS will be sufficient for compliance with future ozone and particulate matter regulations. See “— Clean Air Interstate Rule — Illinois” for further discussion. Pennsylvania In June 2007, the PADEP requested a redesignation of Clearfield and Indiana counties to attainment with respect to the 8-hour ozone standard. The PADEP also submitted a maintenance plan indicating that the existing (and upcoming) regulations controlling emissions of volatile organic compounds and NOx will result in continued compliance with the 8-hour ozone standard. Accordingly, Edison International believes that the Homer City facilities will likely not need to install additional pollution control as a result of the 8-hour ozone standard. With respect to fine particulates, Pennsylvania has not proposed new regulations to achieve compliance with the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for fine particulates. The SIP with respect to this standard was due to the US EPA by April 5, 2008, but has not been submitted. Edison International is unable to predict the timing of the SIP or its potential effect on the Homer City facilities. Hazardous Substances and Hazardous Waste Laws With respect to EME’s potential liabilities arising under CERCLA or similar laws for the investigation and remediation of contaminated property, EME accrues a liability to the extent the costs are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Midwest Generation has accrued approximately $4 million at December 31, 2008 for estimated environmental investigation and remediation costs for the Illinois Plants. This estimate is based upon the number of sites, the scope of work and the estimated costs for investigation and/or remediation where such expenditures could be reasonably estimated. Future estimated costs may vary based on changes in regulations or requirements of federal, state, or local governmental agencies, changes in technology, and actual costs of disposal. In addition, future remediation costs will be affected by the nature and extent of contamination discovered at the sites that requires remediation. Given the prior history of the operations at its facilities, EME cannot be certain that the existence or extent of all contamination at its sites has been fully identified. However, based on available information, management believes that future costs in excess of the amounts disclosed on all known and quantifiable environmental contingencies will not be material to EME’s financial position. Water Quality Regulation Clean Water Act — Cooling Water Standards and Regulations EME has collected impingement and entrainment data at its potentially affected Midwest Generation facilities in Illinois to begin the process of determining what corrective actions might need to be taken under the 31 Table of Contents previous rule. Because there are no defined compliance targets absent a new rule, EME is currently in the process of generally reviewing a wide range of possible control technologies. Although the rule to be generated in the new rulemaking process could have a material impact on EME’s operations, until the final compliance criteria have been published, EME cannot reasonably determine the financial impact. Illinois Effluent Water Quality Standards The Illinois EPA is considering the adoption of a rule that would impose stringent thermal and effluent water quality standards for the Chicago Area Waterway System and Lower Des Plaines River. Midwest Generation’s Fisk, Crawford, Joliet and Will County stations all use water from the affected waterways for cooling purposes and the rule, if implemented, is expected to affect the manner in with those stations use water for station cooling. See “Other Developments — Environmental Matters — Water Quality Regulation — State Water Quality Standards — Illinois” in the MD&A for more information. Coal Combustion Wastes US EPA regulations currently classify coal combustion wastes as solid wastes that are exempt from hazardous waste requirements under what is known as the Bevill Amendment. The exemption applies to fly ash, bottom, slag, and flue gas emission control wastes generated from the combustion of coal or other fossil fuels. The US EPA has studied coal combustion wastes extensively and in 2000 concluded that fossil fuel combustions wastes do not warrant regulation as a hazardous waste under Subtitle C of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. However, the US EPA also concluded, in 2000 and again in a 2007 Notice of Data Availability and request for public comment, that coal combustion wastes disposed of in surface impoundments and landfills, or used for minefill, do require regulation under Subtitle D (as solid wastes) under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. The current classification of coal combustion wastes as exempt from hazardous waste requirements enables beneficial uses of coal combustion wastes, such as for cement production and fill materials. The Illinois Plants currently sell a significant portion of their coal combustion wastes for beneficial uses. Legislation has been introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives and the US EPA is reviewing options for regulation of coal ash. The US EPA and many state regulatory agencies, including the Illinois EPA and the PADEP, are reviewing existing ash storage and disposal units and the adequacy of existing regulatory standards. EME is monitoring state legislative and regulatory activity, specifically in Illinois, Pennsylvania and West Virginia, but cannot predict the outcome of this activity. Additional regulation of the storage, disposal, and beneficial uses of coal combustion wastes would affect the costs and the manner in which EME conducts its business, and would likely require EME to make additional capital expenditures with no assurance that the increased costs could be recovered from customers. Employees of EME At December 31, 2008, EME and its subsidiaries employed 1,889 people, including: • approximately 746 employees at the Illinois Plants covered by a collective bargaining agreement governing wages, certain benefits and working conditions. This collective bargaining agreement will expire on December 31, 2009. Midwest Generation also has a separate collective bargaining agreement governing retirement, health care, disability and insurance benefits that expires on June 15, 2010; and • approximately 193 employees at the Homer City facilities covered by a collective bargaining agreement governing wages, benefits and working conditions. This collective bargaining agreement will expire on December 31, 2012. Business of Edison Capital Edison Capital has investments worldwide in energy and infrastructure projects, including power generation, electric transmission and distribution, transportation, and telecommunications. Edison Capital also has investments in affordable housing projects located throughout the United States. 32 Table of Contents At the end of 2005, the employees of Edison Capital were transferred to EME and a services agreement was executed effective December 26, 2005 to provide for intercompany charges for services provided by EME to Edison Capital. During December 2005, Edison Capital dividended a portion of its wind projects to its parent company, EMG. The projects were then contributed to EME. During the first half of 2006, Edison Capital made a dividend of its remaining wind projects to EMG, and the projects were subsequently contributed to EME. At the present time, no new investments are expected to be made by Edison Capital and the focus will be on managing the existing investment portfolio. Energy and Infrastructure Investments of Edison Capital Edison Capital’s energy and infrastructure investments are in the form of domestic and cross-border leveraged leases, partnership interests in international infrastructure funds and operating companies in the United States. Leveraged Leases As of December 31, 2008, Edison Capital is the lessor with an investment balance of $2.5 billion in the following leveraged leases: Investment Basic Lease Balance Transaction Asset Location Term Ends (In millions) Domestic Leases MCV • Midland Cogeneration Ventures, selling power to Consumers Energy Company 1,500 MW gas-fired cogeneration plant Midland, Michigan 2015 $ 2 Vidalia • selling power to Entergy Louisiana, City of Vidalia 192 MW hydro power plant Vidalia, Louisiana 2020 $ 82 Beaver Valley • selling power to Ohio Edison Company, Centerior Energy Corporation 836 MW nuclear power plant Shippingport, Pennsylvania 2017 $ 66 American Airlines 3 Boeing 767 ER aircraft Domestic and international routes 2016 $ 50 Cross-border Leases EPON • power generation company 1,675 MW combined cycle, gas-fired power plant (3 of 5 units ) Netherlands 2016 $ 432 EPZ • consortium of government electric distribution companies 580 MW coal/gas-fired power plant Netherlands 2016 $ 100 ESKOM • government integrated utility 4,110 MW coal-fired power plant (3 of 6 units ) South Africa 2018 $ 632 ETSA • government integrated utility 3,665 miles electric transmission system South Australia 2022 $ 303 NV Nederlandse Spoorwegen • national rail authority 40 electric locomotives Netherlands 2011 $ 39 Swisscom • government telecom utility Telecom conduit Switzerland 2028 $ 800 The rent paid by the lessee is expected to cover debt payments and provide a profit to Edison Capital. As lessor, Edison Capital also claims the tax benefits, such as depreciation of the asset or amortization of lease payments and interest deductions. All regulatory, operating, maintenance, insurance and decommissioning costs are the responsibility of the lessees. The lessees’ performance is secured not only by the project assets, 33 Table of Contents but also by other collateral that was valued as of December 31, 2008, in the aggregate at approximately $1.5 billion against $2.5 billion invested in leveraged leases. The lenders have a priority lien against the assets but the loans are non-recourse to Edison Capital. Edison Capital’s leveraged lease investments depend upon the performance of the asset, the lessee’s performance of its contract obligations, enforcement of remedies and sufficiency of the collateral in the event of default, and realization of tax benefits. Infrastructure Funds Edison Capital holds a minority interest as a limited partner in three separate funds that invest in infrastructure assets in Latin America, Asia and countries in Europe with emerging economies. Edison Capital is also a member of the investment committee of each fund. At December 31, 2008, Edison Capital had an investment balance of $12 million in the Latin America fund, $2 million in the Asia fund, and $19 million in the emerging Europe fund. As of December 31, 2008, Edison Capital did not have any additional investment commitments to these funds. The fund managers look to exit the investments on favorable terms which provide a return to the limited partners from appreciation in the value of the investment. The ability to exit investments on favorable terms depends upon many factors, including the economic conditions in each region, the performance of the asset, and whether there is a public or private market for these interests. For some fund investments there may also be foreign currency exchange rate risk. Affordable Housing Investments of Edison Capital At December 31, 2008, Edison Capital had a net investment of $7 million in approximately 313 affordable housing projects with approximately 25,000 units rented to qualifying low-income tenants in 35 states. These investments are usually in the form of majority interests in limited partnerships or limited liability companies. With a few exceptions, the projects are managed by third parties. For 105 projects, Edison Capital has guaranteed a minimum return to the syndicated investor. Edison Capital retained a minority interest in, and continues to monitor, all of the syndicated investments. Edison Capital is entitled to low-income housing tax credits, depreciation and interest deductions, and a small percentage of cash generated from the projects. Edison Capital’s tax credits from these projects could be recaptured by the Internal Revenue Service if, among other things, the project fails to comply with the requirements of the tax credit program, costs are excluded from the eligible basis used to compute the amount of tax credits, or the project changes ownership through foreclosure. In most cases, Edison Capital is indemnified by the project manager (or parties related to it) against some losses, but there is no assurance of collecting against such indemnities. As of year-end 2008, Edison Capital had not experienced any significant recapture of tax credits from its affordable housing projects. Business Environment of Edison Capital Edison Capital’s investments may be affected by the financial condition of other parties, the performance of assets, regulatory, economic conditions and other business and legal factors. Information regarding the business environment of Edison Capital appears in the MD&A under the heading “EMG: Market Risk Exposure — Edison Capital’s Credit and Performance Risk.” Under tax allocation arrangements among Edison International and its subsidiaries, Edison Capital receives cash for federal and state tax benefits from its investments that are utilized on Edison International’s tax return. Information about Edison Capital’s tax allocation payments and tax exposures is contained in the MD&A under the heading “Edison Capital’s: Liquidity — Intercompany Tax-Allocation Payments” and “Other Developments — Federal Income Taxes.” 34 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Edison International Edison International may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to Edison International. Edison International is a holding company and, as such, Edison International has no operations of its own. Edison International’s ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock at the current rate is primarily dependent on the earnings and cash flows of its subsidiaries and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to Edison International. Prior to funding Edison International, Edison International’s subsidiaries have financial and regulatory obligations that must be satisfied, including, among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. Financial market and economic conditions may have an adverse effect on Edison International’s subsidiaries. See “Risks Relating to SCE” and “Risks Relating to EME” below for further discussion. Edison International’s cash flows and earnings could be adversely affected by tax developments relating to Edison Capital’s lease transactions. Edison Capital entered into certain types of lease transactions which have been challenged by the Internal Revenue Service. Edison International is currently engaged in attempts to settle such challenges, but if it is unable to do so on acceptable terms and is not successful in its defense of the tax treatment of those transactions, the payment of taxes could have a significant impact on cash flows. Also, the adoption of changes in accounting policies relating to the accounting for leases could cause a material effect on reported earnings by requiring Edison International to reverse earnings previously recognized as a current period adjustment and to report these earnings over the remaining life of the leases. More information regarding the lease transactions is contained in the MD&A under the heading “Other Developments — Federal Income Taxes.” Edison International and its subsidiaries are subject to costs and other effects of legal proceedings as well as changes in or additions to applicable tax laws, rates or policies, rates of inflation, and accounting standards. Edison International and its subsidiaries are subject to costs and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims, as well as the effect of new, or changes in, tax laws, rates or policies, rates of inflation and accounting standards. Edison International’s subsidiaries are subject to extensive environmental regulations that may involve significant and increasing costs and adversely affect them. Edison International’s subsidiaries are subject to extensive environmental regulation and permitting requirements that involve significant and increasing costs. SCE and EMG devote significant resources to environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment and emission allowances to comply with existing and anticipated environmental regulatory requirements. However, the current trend is toward more stringent standards, stricter regulation, and more expansive application of environmental regulations. The U.S. Congress is deliberating over competing proposals to regulate GHG emissions. In addition, the attorneys general of several states, including California, certain environmental advocacy groups, and numerous state regulatory agencies in the United States have been focusing considerable attention on GHG emissions from coal-fired power plants and their potential role in climate change. The adoption of laws and regulations to implement GHG controls could adversely affect operations, particularly of the coal-fired plants. The continued operation of SCE and EMG facilities, particularly the coal-fired facilities, may require substantial capital expenditures for environmental controls. In addition, future environmental laws and regulations, and future enforcement proceedings that may be taken by environmental authorities, could affect the costs and the manner in which these subsidiaries conduct business. Current and future state laws and regulations in California could increase 35 Table of Contents the required amount of power that must be procured from renewable resources. Furthermore, changing environmental regulations could make some units uneconomical to maintain or operate. If the affected subsidiaries cannot comply with all applicable regulations, they could be required to retire or suspend operations at such facilities, or to restrict or modify the operations of these facilities, and their business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Risks Relating to SCE SCE’s financial viability depends upon its ability to recover its costs in a timely manner from its customers through regulated rates. SCE is a regulated entity subject to CPUC jurisdiction in almost all aspects of its business, including the rates, terms and conditions of its services, procurement of electricity for its customers, issuance of securities, dispositions of utility assets and facilities and aspects of the siting and operations of its electricity distribution systems. SCE’s ongoing financial viability depends on its ability to recover from its customers in a timely manner its costs, including the costs of electricity purchased for its customers, in its CPUC-approved rates and its ability to pass through to its customers in rates its FERC-authorized revenue requirements. SCE’s financial viability also depends on its ability to recover in rates an adequate return on capital, including long-term debt and equity. If SCE is unable to recover any material amount of its costs in rates in a timely manner or recover an adequate return on capital, its financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. SCE’s energy procurement activities are subject to regulatory and market risks that could adversely affect its financial condition, liquidity, and earnings. SCE obtains energy, capacity, and ancillary services needed to serve its customers from its own generating plants and contracts with energy producers and sellers. California law and CPUC decisions allow SCE to recover in customer rates reasonable procurement costs incurred in compliance with an approved procurement plan. Nonetheless, SCE’s cash flows remain subject to volatility resulting from its procurement activities. In addition, SCE is subject to the risks of unfavorable or untimely CPUC decisions about the compliance of procurement activities with its procurement plan and the reasonableness of certain procurement-related costs. Many of SCE’s power purchase contracts are tied to market prices for natural gas. Some of its contracts also are subject to volatility in market prices for electricity. SCE seeks to hedge its market price exposure to the extent authorized by the CPUC. SCE may not be able to hedge its risk for commodities on favorable terms or fully recover the costs of hedges in rates, which could adversely affect SCE’s liquidity and results of operation. In its power purchase contracts and other procurement arrangements, SCE is exposed to risks from changes in the credit quality of its counterparties, many of whom may be adversely affected by the current conditions in the financial markets. If a counterparty were to default on its obligations, SCE could be exposed to potentially volatile spot markets for buying replacement power or selling excess power. SCE relies on access to the capital markets. If SCE were unable to access capital markets or the cost of capital were to substantially increase, its liquidity and operations could be adversely affected. SCE’s ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest, refinance debt, and fund its operations and planned capital expenditure projects depends on its cash flow and access to the capital markets. SCE’s ability to arrange financing and the costs of such capital are dependent on numerous factors, including its levels of indebtedness, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings, its financial performance, liquidity and cash flow, and other market conditions. Market conditions which could adversely affect SCE’s financing costs and availability include: • current financial market and economic conditions; • market prices for electricity or gas; 36 Table of Contents • changes in interest rates and rates of inflation; • terrorist attacks or the threat of terrorist attacks on SCE’s facilities or unrelated energy companies; and • the overall health of the utility industry. SCE may not be successful in obtaining additional capital for these or other reasons. The failure to obtain additional capital from time to time may have a material adverse effect on SCE’s liquidity and operations. SCE is subject to extensive regulation and the risk of adverse regulatory decisions and changes in applicable regulations or legislation. SCE operates in a highly regulated environment. SCE’s business is subject to extensive federal, state and local energy, environmental and other laws and regulations. The CPUC regulates SCE’s retail operations, and the FERC regulates SCE’s wholesale operations. The NRC regulates SCE’s nuclear power plants. The construction, planning, and siting of SCE’s power plants and transmission lines in California are also subject to the jurisdiction of the California Energy Commission (for plants 50 MW or greater), and the CPUC. The construction, planning and siting of transmission lines that are outside of California are subject to the regulation of the relevant state agency. Additional regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over some of SCE’s operations and construction projects include the California Air Resources Board, the California State Water Resources Control Board, the California Department of Toxic Substances Control, the California Coastal Commission, the US EPA, the Bureau of Land Management, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Services, the U.S. Forest Service, Regional Water Quality Boards, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the United States Department of Energy, the NRC, and various local regulatory districts. SCE must periodically apply for licenses and permits from these various regulatory authorities and abide by their respective orders. Should SCE be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits or should these regulatory authorities initiate any investigations or enforcement actions or impose penalties or disallowances on SCE, SCE’s business could be adversely affected. Existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to SCE or SCE’s facilities in a manner that may have a detrimental effect on SCE’s business or result in significant additional costs because of SCE’s need to comply with those requirements. There are inherent risks associated with operating nuclear power generating facilities. Spent fuel storage capacity could be insufficient to permit long-term operation of SCE’s nuclear plants. SCE operates and is majority owner of San Onofre and is part owner of Palo Verde. The United States Department of Energy has defaulted on its obligation to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel from commercial nuclear industry participants by January 31, 1998. If SCE or the operator of Palo Verde were unable to arrange and maintain sufficient capacity for interim spent-fuel storage now or in the future, it could hinder operation of the plants and impair the value of SCE’s ownership interests until storage could be obtained, each of which may have a material adverse effect on SCE. Existing insurance and ratemaking arrangements may not protect SCE fully against losses from a nuclear incident. Federal law limits public liability claims from a nuclear incident to the amount of available financial protection which is currently approximately $12.5 billion. SCE and other owners of the San Onofre and Palo Verde nuclear generating stations have purchased the maximum private primary insurance available of $300 million per site. If the public liability limit above is insufficient, federal law contemplates that additional funds may be appropriated by Congress. This could include an additional assessment on all licensed reactor operators as a measure for raising further revenue. If this were to occur, a tension could exist between the federal government’s attempt to impose revenue-raising measures upon SCE and the CPUC’s willingness to allow SCE to pass this liability along to its customers, resulting in undercollection of SCE’s costs. There can be no assurance of SCE’s ability to recover uninsured costs in the event federal appropriations are insufficient. 37 Table of Contents SCE’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if it is unable to successfully manage the risks inherent in operating and improving its facilities. SCE owns and operates extensive electricity facilities that are interconnected to the United States western electricity grid. SCE is also undertaking large-scale new infrastructure construction. The construction of infrastructure involves numerous risks, including risks related to permitting, governmental approvals, and construction delays. The operation of SCE’s facilities and the facilities of third parties on which it relies involves numerous risks, including: • operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; • imposition of operational performance standards by agencies with regulatory oversight of SCE’s facilities; • environmental and personal injury liabilities caused by the operation of SCE’s facilities; • interruptions in fuel supply; • blackouts; • employee work force factors, including strikes, work stoppages or labor disputes; • weather, storms, earthquakes, fires, floods or other natural disasters; • acts of terrorism; and • explosions, accidents, mechanical breakdowns and other events that affect demand, result in power outages, reduce generating output or cause damage to SCE’s assets or operations or those of third parties on which it relies. The occurrence of any of these events could result in lower revenues or increased expenses and liabilities, or both, which may not be fully recovered through insurance, rates or other means in a timely manner or at all. SCE’s insurance coverage may not be sufficient under all circumstances and SCE may not be able to obtain sufficient insurance. SCE’s insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which it may be subject. A loss for which SCE is not fully insured could materially and adversely affect SCE’s financial condition and results of operations. Further, due to rising insurance costs and changes in the insurance markets, insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or on terms similar to those presently available to SCE. Risks Relating to EME The global financial crisis may have a material adverse impact on EME’s access to capital necessary to fund contractual obligations and the ability of EME’s counterparties to perform their contractual obligations. Financial market and economic conditions have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on EME’s business and financial condition. The capital markets were not available to EME during the fourth quarter of 2008, and market uncertainty has continued into 2009. EME’s ability to raise capital has been, and could continue to be, adversely affected by volatile and unpredictable global market and economic conditions. Even after the capital markets recover, recent disruptions in the credit markets may have lasting effects on the availability of credit, cost of borrowing, and terms and conditions of new borrowings. In September 2008, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., a lender in EME’s credit agreement representing a commitment of $36 million, declined requests for funding under that agreement. Thereafter, in October 2008, it filed for bankruptcy protection. While the Lehman Commercial Paper bankruptcy is not expected to have a material adverse effect on EME, the situation may worsen if other lenders under the credit agreement file for bankruptcy or otherwise fail to perform their obligations. 38 Table of Contents Liquidity is essential to EME’s business. EME cannot provide assurance that its projected sources of capital will be available when needed or that its actual cash requirements will not be greater than expected. Lack of available capital may affect EME’s ability to complete environmental improvements of the Illinois Plants as prescribed by the CPS, which could lead to the eventual shutdown of a material part of the Illinois Plants. Lack of available capital could also affect EME’s ability to complete the development of sites for renewable projects deploying current turbine commitments, which could lead to postponement or cancellation of the turbine commitments subject to the provisions of the related contracts. In addition to the potential effect on EME’s liquidity, the global financial crisis could have a negative effect on the markets in which EME and its subsidiaries sell power, purchase fuel and perform other trading and marketing activities. In recent years, global financial institutions have been active participants in such markets. As such financial institutions consolidate and operate under more restrictive capital constraints in response to the financial crisis, there could be less liquidity in the energy and commodity markets, which could have a negative effect on EME’s ability to hedge and transact with creditworthy counterparties. In addition, EME is exposed to the risk that its counterparties, including customers, suppliers and business partners, may fail to perform according to the terms of their contractual arrangements. Deterioration in the financial condition of EME’s counterparties as a result of the global financial crisis, and the resulting failure to pay amounts owed or to perform obligations in excess of posted collateral, could have a negative effect on EME’s business and financial condition. EME has substantial interests in merchant energy power plants which are subject to market risks related to wholesale energy prices. EME’s merchant energy power plants do not have long-term power purchase agreements. Because the output of these power plants is not committed to be sold under long-term contracts, these projects are subject to market forces which determine the amount and price of energy, capacity and ancillary services sold from the power plants. The factors that influence the market price for energy, capacity and ancillary services include: • prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas and fuel oil, and associated transportation; • the extent of additional supplies of capacity, energy and ancillary services from current competitors or new market entrants, including the development of new generation facilities or technologies that may be able to produce electricity at a lower cost than EME’s generating facilities and/or increased access by competitors to EME’s markets as a result of transmission upgrades; • transmission congestion in and to each market area and the resulting differences in prices between delivery points; • the market structure rules established for each market area and regulatory developments affecting the market areas, including any price limitations and other mechanisms adopted to address volatility or illiquidity in these markets or the physical stability of the system; • the ability of regional pools to pay market participants’ settlement prices for energy and related products; • the cost and availability of emission credits or allowances; • the availability, reliability and operation of competing power generation facilities, including nuclear generating plants where applicable, and the extended operation of such facilities beyond their presently expected dates of decommissioning; • weather conditions prevailing in surrounding areas from time to time; and • changes in the demand for electricity or in patterns of electricity usage as a result of factors such as regional economic conditions and the implementation of conservation programs. In addition, unlike most other commodities, electric power can only be stored on a very limited basis and generally must be produced concurrently with its use. As a result, the wholesale power markets are subject to significant and unpredictable price fluctuations over relatively short periods of time. There is no assurance that EME’s merchant energy power plants will be successful in selling power into their markets or that the prices received for their power will generate positive cash flows. If EME’s merchant energy power plants do not 39 Table of Contents meet these objectives, they may not be able to generate enough cash to service their own debt and lease obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on EME. EME’s financial results can be affected by changes in fuel prices, fuel transportation cost increases, and interruptions in fuel supply. EME’s business is subject to changes in fuel costs, which may negatively affect its financial results and financial position by increasing the cost of producing power. The fuel markets can be volatile, and actual fuel prices can differ from EME’s expectations. Although EME attempts to purchase fuel based on its known fuel requirements, it is still subject to the risks of supply interruptions, transportation cost increases, and fuel price volatility. In addition, fuel deliveries may not exactly match energy sales, due in part to the need to purchase fuel inventories in advance for reliability and dispatch requirements. The price at which EME can sell its energy may not rise or fall at the same rate as a corresponding rise or fall in fuel costs. EME may not be able to hedge market risks effectively. EME is exposed to market risks through its ownership and operation of merchant energy power plants and through its power marketing business. These market risks include, among others, volatility arising from the timing differences associated with buying fuel, converting fuel into energy and delivering energy to a buyer. EME uses forward contracts and derivative financial instruments, such as futures contracts and options, to manage market risks and exposure to fluctuating electricity and fuel prices. However, EME cannot provide assurance that these strategies successfully mitigate market risks. EME may not cover the entire exposure of its assets or positions to market price volatility, and the level of coverage will vary over time. Fluctuating commodity prices may negatively affect EME’s financial results to the extent that assets and positions have not been hedged. The effectiveness of EME’s hedging activities may depend on the amount of working capital available to post as collateral in support of these transactions, either in support of performance guarantees or as a cash margin. The amount of credit support that must be provided typically is based on the difference between the price of the commodity in a given contract and the market price of the commodity. Significant movements in market prices can result in a requirement to provide cash collateral and letters of credit in very large amounts. Without adequate liquidity to meet margin and collateral requirements, EME could be exposed to the following: • a reduction in the number of counterparties willing to enter into bilateral contracts, which would result in increased reliance on short-term and spot markets instead of bilateral contracts, increasing EME’s exposure to market volatility; and • a failure to meet a margining requirement, which could permit the counterparty to terminate the related bilateral contract early and demand immediate payment for the replacement value of the contract. As a result of these and other factors, EME cannot predict the effect that risk management decisions may have on its businesses, operating results or financial position. EME’s development projects or future acquisitions may not be successful. EME’s future financial condition, results of operation and cash flows will depend in large part upon its ability to successfully implement its long-term strategy, which includes the development and acquisition of electric power generation facilities, with an emphasis on renewable energy (primarily wind and solar) and gas-fired power plants. EME may be unable to identify attractive acquisition or development opportunities and/or to complete and integrate them on a successful and timely basis. Furthermore, implementation of this strategy may be affected by factors beyond EME’s control, such as increased competition, legal and regulatory developments, price volatility in electric or fuel markets, and general economic conditions. 40 Table of Contents In support of its development activities, EME has entered into commitments to purchase wind turbines for future projects and may make substantial additional commitments in the future. In addition, EME expends significant amounts for preliminary engineering, permitting, legal and other expenses before it can determine whether it will win a competitive bid, or whether a project is feasible or economically attractive. Historically, wind projects have received federal subsidies in the form of production tax credits. Currently, production tax credits are available for new wind projects placed in service by December 31, 2012. If the deadline for production tax credits is not extended again, EME’s development activities related to wind projects slated for completion after December 31, 2012, could be adversely affected. EME’s development activities are subject to risks including, without limitation, risks related to project siting, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals and the negotiation of project agreements, including power-purchase agreements. Moreover, recent economic conditions may affect the willingness of local utilities to enter into new power-purchase agreements due to uncertainties over future load requirements, among other factors. As a result of these risks, EME may not be successful in developing new projects or the timing of such development may be delayed beyond the date that turbines are ready for installation. Projects under development may be adversely affected by delays in turbine deliveries or start-up problems related to turbine performance. If a project under development is abandoned, EME would expense all capitalized development costs incurred in connection with that project, and could incur additional losses associated with any related contingent liabilities. If EME is not successful in developing new projects, it may be required to cancel turbine orders, or sell turbines that were purchased and such cancellation and/or sales may result in substantial losses. Finally, EME cannot provide assurance that its development projects or acquired assets will generate sufficient cash flow to support the indebtedness incurred to acquire them or the capital expenditures needed to develop them, or that EME will ultimately realize a satisfactory rate of return. A substantial portion of wind turbines purchased by EME may not perform as expected during start-up or operations, thereby adversely affecting the expected return on investment. EME has purchased a significant number of wind turbines in support of its renewable energy activities. The turbines of one turbine manufacturer have experienced rotor blade cracks, and the turbines of another turbine manufacturer have also experienced blade problems. EME cannot provide assurance that repairs or replacements of the affected turbines will be timely or effective or that expected performance levels will be achieved. Significant delays in meeting commercial operation deadlines and/or reductions in project output could subject projects to damages under their power purchase agreements and, potentially, the risk of termination under some agreements. Turbine problems have also impacted EME’s ability to secure project financing for these projects. EME cannot predict at this time the amount of damages that will be recovered by EME from the turbine suppliers. Furthermore, limited data is presently available regarding the performance of new wind turbines of a size over 2 MW over an extended period of time. Accordingly, EME cannot provide assurance that it will earn its expected return over the life of the projects. Competition could adversely affect EME’s business. The independent power industry is characterized by numerous capable competitors, some of whom may have more extensive experience in the acquisition and development of power projects, larger staffs, and greater financial resources than EME. Several participants in the wholesale markets, including many regulated utilities, have a lower cost of capital than most merchant generators and often are able to recover fixed costs through rate base mechanisms, allowing them to build, buy and upgrade generation assets without relying exclusively on market clearing prices to recover their investments. This could affect EME’s ability to compete effectively in the markets in which those entities operate. Newer plants owned by EME’s competitors are often more efficient than EME’s facilities. This may put some of EME’s facilities at a competitive disadvantage to the extent that its competitors are able to produce more power from each increment of fuel than EME’s merchant facilities are capable of producing. Over time, some 41 Table of Contents of EME’s facilities may become obsolete in their markets, or be unable to compete, because of the construction of newer, more efficient power plants. In addition to the competition already existing in the markets in which EME presently operates or may consider operating in the future, EME is likely to encounter significant competition as a result of further consolidation of the power industry by mergers and asset reallocations, which could create larger competitors, as well as new market entrants. In addition, regulatory initiatives may result in changes in the power industry to which EME may not be able to respond in as timely and effective manner as its competitors. EME’s projects may be affected by general operating risks and hazards customary in the power generation industry. EME may not have adequate insurance to cover all these hazards. The operation of power generation facilities involves many operating risks, including: • performance below expected levels of output, efficiency or availability; • interruptions in fuel supply; • disruptions in the transmission of electricity; • curtailment of operations due to transmission constraints; • breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; • imposition of new regulatory, permitting, or environmental requirements, or violations of existing requirements; • employee work force factors, including strikes, work stoppages or labor disputes; • operator/contractor error; and • catastrophic events such as terrorist activities, fires, tornadoes, earthquakes, explosions, floods or other similar occurrences affecting power generation facilities or the transmission and distribution infrastructure over which power is transported. These and other hazards can cause significant personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of or damage to the environment, and suspension of operations. The occurrence of one or more of the events listed above could decrease or eliminate revenues generated by EME’s projects or significantly increase the costs of operating them, and could also result in EME’s being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages, potentially including environmental cleanup costs, personal injury, property damage, fines and penalties. Equipment and plant warranties, guarantees and insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances to cover lost revenues or increased expenses. A decrease or elimination in revenues generated by the facilities or an increase in the costs of operating them could decrease or eliminate funds available to meet EME’s obligations as they become due and could have a material adverse effect on EME. A default under a financing obligation of a project entity could result in a loss of EME’s interest in the project. EME is subject to extensive environmental regulation and permitting requirements that may involve significant and increasing costs. EME’s operations are subject to extensive environmental regulations with respect to, among other things, air quality, water quality, waste disposal, and noise. EME is required to obtain, and comply with conditions established by, licenses, permits and other approvals, in order to construct, operate or modify its facilities. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject EME to civil or criminal liability, the imposition of liens or fines, or actions by regulatory agencies seeking to curtail EME’s operations. See “— Risks relating to Edison International — Edison International’s subsidiaries are subject to extensive environmental regulations that may involve significant and increasing costs and adversely affect them” above for additional discussion of environmental regulation risks. 42 Table of Contents EME is subject to extensive energy industry regulation. EME’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by governmental agencies. EME’s projects are subject to federal laws and regulations that govern, among other things, transactions by and with purchasers of power, including utility companies, the development and construction of generation facilities, the ownership and operations of generation facilities, and access to transmission. Under limited circumstances where exclusive federal jurisdiction is not applicable or specific exemptions or waivers from state or federal laws or regulations are otherwise unavailable, federal and/or state utility regulatory commissions may have broad jurisdiction over non-utility owned electric power plants. Generation facilities are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the geographical location, zoning, land use and operation of a project. The FERC may impose various forms of market mitigation measures, including price caps and operating restrictions, where it determines that potential market power might exist and that the public interest requires mitigation. In addition, many of EME’s facilities are subject to rules, restrictions and terms of participation imposed and administered by various RTOs and ISOs. For example, ISOs and RTOs may impose bidding and scheduling rules, both to curb the potential exercise of market power and to facilitate market functions. Such actions may materially affect EME’s results of operations. There is no assurance that the introduction of new laws or other future regulatory developments will not have a material adverse effect on EME’s business, results of operations or financial condition, nor is there any assurance that EME will be able to obtain and comply with all necessary licenses, permits and approvals for its projects. If projects cannot comply with all applicable regulations, EME’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. EME and its subsidiaries have a substantial amount of indebtedness, including long-term lease obligations. As of December 31, 2007, EME’s consolidated debt was $3.8 billion. In addition, EME’s subsidiaries have $3.9 billion of long-term power plant lease obligations that are due over a period ranging up to 27 years. The substantial amount of consolidated debt and financial obligations presents the risk that EME and its subsidiaries might not have sufficient cash to service their indebtedness or long-term lease obligations and that the existing corporate debt, project debt and lease obligations could limit the ability of EME and its subsidiaries to grow their business, to compete effectively or to operate successfully under adverse economic conditions or to plan for and react to business and industry changes. If EME’s or a subsidiary’s cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to allow it to make scheduled payments on its debt, EME or its subsidiaries might have to reduce or delay capital expenditures (including environmental improvements required by the CPS, which could in turn lead to unit shutdowns), sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance the debt. The terms of EME’s or its subsidiaries’ debt may not allow these alternative measures, the debt or equity may not be available on acceptable terms, and these alternative measures may not satisfy all scheduled debt service obligations. In addition, in connection with the entry into new financings or amendments to existing financing arrangements, EME’s financial and operational flexibility may be further reduced as a result of more restrictive covenants, requirements for security and other terms that are often imposed on sub-investment grade entities. Restrictions in the instruments governing EME’s indebtedness and the indebtedness and lease obligations of its subsidiaries limit EME’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to enter into specified transactions that EME or they otherwise may enter into. The instruments governing EME’s indebtedness and the indebtedness of its subsidiaries contain financial and investment covenants. Restrictions contained in these documents or documents EME or its subsidiaries enter in the future could affect, and in some cases significantly limit or prohibit, EME’s ability and the ability of its subsidiaries to, among other things, incur, refinance, and prepay debt, make capital expenditures, pay dividends and make other distributions, make investments, create liens, sell assets, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, issue equity interests, enter into transactions with affiliates, create restrictions on the 43 Table of Contents ability to pay dividends or make other distributions and engage in mergers and consolidations. These restrictions may significantly impede EME’s ability and the ability of its subsidiaries to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, to grow its business or to compete effectively. In addition, these restrictions may significantly impede the ability of EME’s subsidiaries to make distributions to EME. The creditworthiness of EME’s customers, suppliers, transporters and other business partners could affect EME’s business and operations. EME is exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of its key customers, suppliers and business partners, many of whom may be adversely affected by the current conditions in the financial markets. Deterioration in the financial condition of EME’s counterparties increases the possibility that EME may incur losses from the failure of counterparties to perform according to the terms of their contractual arrangements. EME’s operations depend on contracts for the supply and transportation of fuel and other services required for the operation of its generation facilities and are exposed to the risk that counterparties to contracts will not perform their obligations. If a fuel supplier or transporter failed to perform under a contract, EME would need to obtain alternate supplies or transportation, which could result in higher costs or disruptions in its operations. If the defaulting counterparty is in poor financial condition, damages related to a breach of contract may not be recoverable. Accordingly, the failure of counterparties to fulfill their contractual obligations could have a material adverse effect on EME’s financial results. The accounting for EME’s hedging and proprietary trading activities may increase the volatility of its quarterly and annual financial results. EME engages in hedging activities in order to mitigate its exposure to market risk with respect to electricity sales from its generation facilities, fuel utilized by those facilities and emission allowances. EME generally attempts to balance its fixed-price physical and financial purchases and sales commitments in terms of contract volumes and the timing of performance and delivery obligations through the use of financial and physical derivative contracts. EME also uses derivative contracts with respect to its limited proprietary trading activities, through which EME attempts to achieve incremental returns by transacting where it has specific market expertise. These derivative contracts are recorded on its balance sheet at fair value pursuant to SFAS No. 133. Some of these derivative contracts do not qualify under SFAS No. 133 for hedge accounting, and changes in their fair value are therefore recognized currently in earnings as unrealized gains or losses. As a result, EME’s financial results will at times be volatile and subject to fluctuations in value primarily due to changes in electricity prices. 44 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 