RISK FACTORS RELATING TO OUR APPLIED TECHNOLOGY CUSTOMERS Our success in contract manufacturing depends largely on the success of our customers and their need for our manufacturing services and on the devices designed and manufactured by us for those customers. Any unfavorable developments or adverse effects on the sales of those devices or such customers’ businesses, results of operations, or financial position could have a corresponding adverse effect on us. In addition, we sell certain types of medical devices to multiple customers and, to the extent there is an unfavorable development affecting the sales of any such type of device generally, the adverse effect of such development on us would be more substantial than that presented by the decline in sales to a single customer for such type of device. Additionally, we believe that our design and manufacturing customers and their devices (and ours indirectly) are generally subject to the following risks: Competitive Environment The medical device industry is highly competitive and subject to significant technological change. Participation in such industries requires ongoing investment to keep pace with technological developments and quality and regulatory requirements. These industries consist of numerous companies, ranging from start-up to well-established companies. Many of our customers have a limited number of products, and some market only a single product. As a result, any adverse development with respect to these customers’ products may have a material adverse effect on the business and financial condition of such customers, which may adversely affect those customers’ ability to purchase and pay for their products manufactured by us. The competitors and potential competitors of our customers may succeed in developing or marketing technologies and products that will be preferred in the marketplace over the devices manufactured by us for our customers or that would render our customers’ technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Emerging Technology Companies A number of our customers are emerging medical technology companies that have competitors and potential competitors with substantially greater capital resources, research and development staff and facilities, and substantially greater experience in developing new products, obtaining regulatory approvals, and manufacturing and marketing medical products. Approximately five customers, representing 9% of our revenue in fiscal year 2005, were, in our opinion, emerging medical technology companies. These customers may not be successful in launching and marketing their products, or may not respond to pricing, marketing, or other competitive pressures or the rapid technological innovation demanded by the marketplace. As a result, these customers may experience a significant drop in product revenues, which may hamper their ability to continue as our customer or even pay for services and products that we have already delivered. Customer Regulatory Compliance The FDA regulates many of the devices manufactured by us under the FDC Act, which requires certain clearances from the FDA before new medical products can be marketed. There can be no assurance that our customers will obtain such clearances on a timely basis, if at all. The process of obtaining a PMA or a 510(k) clearance from the FDA could delay the introduction of a product to market. A customer's failure to comply with the FDA’s requirements can result in the delay or denial of its PMA. Delays in obtaining a PMA are frequent and could result in our customers delaying or canceling orders to us. Many products never receive a PMA. Similarly, 510(k) clearance may be delayed, and in some instances, 510(k) clearance is never obtained. Once a product is in commercial distribution, discovery of product problems or failure to comply with regulatory standards may result in restrictions on the product's future use or withdrawal of the product from the market despite prior governmental clearance. There can be no assurance that product recalls, product defects, or modification or loss of necessary regulatory clearance will not occur in the future. Sales of our medical products outside the United States are subject to regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country. The time required to obtain clearance for sale in foreign countries may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA clearance, and the requirements may differ. The FDA also regulates the sale of exported medical devices, although to a lesser extent than devices sold in the United States. In addition, our customers must comply with other laws generally applicable to foreign trade, including technology export restrictions, tariffs, and other regulatory barriers. There can be no assurance that our customers will obtain all required clearances or approvals for exported products on a timely basis, if at all. Medical devices manufactured by us and marketed by our customers pursuant to FDA or foreign clearances or approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA and certain state and foreign regulatory agencies. FDA enforcement policy prohibits the marketing of approved medical products for unapproved uses. Our customers control the marketing of their products, including representing to the market the approved uses of their products. If a customer engages in prohibited marketing practices, the FDA or another regulatory agency with applicable jurisdiction could intervene, possibly resulting in marketing restrictions, including prohibitions on further product sales, or civil or criminal penalties. Changes in existing laws and regulations or policies could adversely affect the ability of our customers to comply with regulatory requirements. There can be no assurance that we or a customer of ours will not be required to incur significant costs to comply with laws and regulations in the future, or that such customer or we will be able to comply with such laws and regulations. Uncertain Market Acceptance of Products There can be no assurance that the products that we design and manufacture for our customers will gain any significant market acceptance, even if required regulatory approvals are obtained. Some of our customers, especially emerging technology companies, have limited or no experience in marketing their products and have not made marketing or distribution arrangements for their products. Our customers may be unable to establish effective sales, marketing, and distribution channels to successfully commercialize their products. Product and Inventory Obsolescence Rapid change and technological innovation characterize the marketplace for medical products. As a result, ZEVEX and our customers are subject to the risk of product and inventory obsolescence, whether from prolonged development, government approval cycles, or the development of improved products or processes by competitors. In addition, the marketplace could conclude that the task for which a customer’s medical product was designed is no longer an element of a generally accepted diagnostic or treatment regimen. Customers’ Future Capital Requirements Some of our customers, especially the emerging medical technology companies, are not profitable and may have little or no revenues, but they have significant working capital requirements. Such customers may be required to raise additional funds through public or private financings, including equity financings. Adequate funds for their operations may not be available when needed, if at all. Insufficient funds may require a customer to delay development of a product, clinical trials (if required), or the commercial introduction of the product or may prevent such commercial introduction altogether. Uncertainty of Third-Party Reimbursement Sales of many of the medical devices that are manufactured by us will be dependent in part on availability of adequate reimbursement for those devices from third-party health care payers, such as government and private insurance plans, health maintenance organizations, and preferred provider organizations. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the pricing of medical products and services. There can be no assurance that adequate levels of reimbursement will be available to enable our customers to achieve market acceptance of their products. Without adequate support from third-party payers, the market for the products of our customers may be limited. Uncertainty of Market Acceptance of Outsourced Manufacturing of Medical Devices We believe that acceptance in the marketplace for outsourcing of design and manufacturing of advanced medical products for medical technology companies varies from year to year and is still uncertain. Many of our potential customers have internal design and manufacturing facilities. Our engineering and manufacturing activities require that customers provide us with access to their proprietary technology and relinquish the control associated with internal engineering and manufacturing. As a result, potential customers may decide that the risks of outsourcing engineering or manufacturing are too great or exceed the anticipated benefits of outsourcing. In addition, medical technology companies that have previously made substantial investments to establish design and manufacturing capabilities may be reluctant to out-source those functions. If the medical technology industry generally, or any significant existing or potential customer, concludes that the disadvantages of outsourcing manufacturing outweigh the advantages, we could suffer a substantial reduction in the size of one or more of our current target markets, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Competition in Outsourced Manufacturing We face competition from design firms and other manufacturers that operate in the medical device industry. Many competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Also, manufacturers focusing in other industries may decide to enter into the industries served by us. Competition from any of the foregoing sources could place pressure on us to accept lower margins on our contracts or lose existing or potential business. To remain competitive, we must continue to provide and develop technologically advanced manufacturing services, maintain quality, offer flexible delivery schedules, deliver finished products on a reliable basis, and compete favorably on the basis of price and the value that we provide. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete favorably with respect to these factors. Dependence on Major Customers No assurances can be given that our customers will continue to do business with us or that the volume of their orders for our contract manufactured devices and proprietary products will increase or remain constant. The loss of several customers, or a significant reduction in the volume of their orders to us, could have a material adverse impact on our operations. In addition, if one or more of these customers were to seek and obtain price discounts from us for our contract manufactured devices or proprietary products, the resulting lower gross margins on those devices and products could have a materially adverse effect on our overall results of operations. If any customer with whom we do a substantial amount of business were to encounter financial distress, the customer’s lateness, unwillingness, or inability to pay its obligations to us could result in a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Early Termination of Agreements Our agreements with major manufacturing customers generally permit the termination of the agreements before their expiration if certain events occur that are materially adverse to the design, development, manufacture, or sale of the product. Examples of such events include the failure to obtain or the withdrawal of regulatory clearance or an alteration of regulatory clearance that is materially adverse to the customer or which prohibits or interferes with the manufacture or sale of the products. The performance of agreements with major customers may be suspended or excused if certain conditions, generally beyond the control of the customer or us (so-called force majeure events), cause the failure or delay of performance. Our pump usage agreements, under which enteral feeding pumps are placed with users in exchange for a commitment by the user to buy disposable products from us, generally require only monthly commitments, and users can terminate any purchase obligation by returning the pump. Thus, there is no assurance of continued revenue from pumps placed with such users. OTHER COMPANY RISKS Risk of Product Liability The manufacture and sale of products, especially medical products, entails an inherent risk of product liability. We maintain product liability insurance with limits of $1 million per occurrence and $2 million in the aggregate and an umbrella policy with a $10 million limit. There can be no assurance that such insurance is adequate to cover potential claims or that we will be able to obtain product liability insurance on acceptable terms in the future or that any product liability insurance subsequently obtained will provide adequate coverage against all potential claims. Such claims may be significant in the medical products area where product failure may result in loss of life or injury to persons. Additionally, we generally provide a design defect warranty and in some instances indemnification to customers for failure to conform to design specifications and against defects in materials and workmanship, which could subject us to a claim under such warranties or indemnification. Dependence Upon Management ZEVEX is substantially dependent upon our key managerial, technical and engineering personnel, particularly our two executive officers, David McNally, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Phillip McStotts, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary/Treasurer. ZEVEX must also attract and retain highly qualified engineering, technical, and managerial personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, the available pool of qualified candidates is limited, and there can be no assurance that we will attract and retain such personnel. The loss of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. None of our key personnel have employment agreements with ZEVEX. We carry key-man life insurance on the lives of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer in the amount of $2,000,000 each. No assurances can be given that such insurance would provide adequate compensation to ZEVEX in the event of the death of either key employee. Patent Protection As of December 31, 2005, we held thirty-five U.S. patents and thirty international patents on devices developed by us, with additional U.S. and international patents pending. Such patents disclose certain aspects of our technologies and there can be no assurance that others will not design around the patent and develop similar technology. We believe that our devices and other proprietary rights do not infringe on any proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance, however, that third parties will not assert infringement claims in the future. Control by Management and Certain Major Shareholders As of March 13, 2006, the current executive officers and directors of ZEVEX, together with those persons who are the beneficial owners of more than 5% of ZEVEX’s Common Stock, beneficially own or have voting control over approximately 26% of the outstanding Common Stock. Accordingly, these individuals have the ability to influence the election of ZEVEX’s directors and most corporate actions. This concentration of ownership, together with other provisions in ZEVEX’s charter and applicable corporate law, may also have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change in control of ZEVEX. Suppliers and Shortages of Component Parts We rely on third-party suppliers for many of the component parts used in manufacturing our own products and those of our customers. Although component parts are generally available from multiple suppliers, certain component parts may require long lead times, and we may have to delay the manufacture of devices from time to time due to the unavailability of certain component parts. In addition, even if component parts are available from an alternative supplier, we could experience additional delays in obtaining component parts if the supplier has not met our vendor qualifications. Component shortages for a particular device may adversely affect our ability either to meet the production plans for our own devices or to satisfy customer orders for that device. Such shortages and extensions of production schedules may delay the recognition of revenue by us and may in some cases constitute a breach of a customer contract. If shortages of component parts continue or if additional shortages should occur, we may be forced to pay higher prices for affected components or delay manufacturing and shipping particular devices, either of which could adversely affect subsequent customer demand for such devices. Customer Conflicts The medical technology industry reflects vigorous competition among its participants. As a result, our customers sometimes require us to enter into non-competition agreements that prevent us from manufacturing instruments or components for our customers’ competitors in certain fields of use. Such restrictions generally apply during the term of the customer’s manufacturing contract and, in some instances, for a period following termination of the contract. If we enter into a non-competition agreement, we may be adversely affected if our customer’s product is not successful and we must forgo an opportunity to manufacture a successful product for such customer’s competitor. Any conflicts among our customers could prevent or deter us from obtaining contracts to manufacture successful products. Future Capital Requirements We believe that our existing capital resources and amounts available under our existing bank line of credit will satisfy our anticipated capital needs for the next year (depending primarily on our growth rate and our results of operations). The commercialization of proprietary products, which is an element of our growth strategy, would require increased investment in working capital and could therefore shorten this period. Thereafter, we may be required to raise additional capital or increase our borrowing capacity, or both. There can be no assurance that alternative sources of equity or debt will be available in the future or, if available, will be on terms acceptable to us. Also, any additional equity financing would result in additional dilution to our shareholders. Reliance on Efficiency of Distribution and Third Parties We believe our financial performance is dependent in part on our ability to provide prompt, accurate, and complete services to our customers on a timely and competitive basis. Accordingly, delays in distribution in our day-to-day operations or material increases in the costs of procuring and delivering products could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Any failure of either our computer operating system or our telephone system could adversely affect our ability to receive and process customers’ orders and ship products on a timely basis. Strikes or other service interruptions affecting Federal Express Corporation, United Parcel Service of America, Inc., or other common carriers used by us to receive necessary components or other materials or to ship our products also could impair our ability to deliver products on a timely and cost-effective basis. Volatility of Revenue and Product Mix Our annual and quarterly operating results are affected by volume and timing of customer orders, which vary due to (i) variation in demand for the customers’ products or services as a result of, among other things, product life cycles, competitive conditions, and general economic conditions, (ii) the customers’ attempt to balance their inventory, (iii) the customers’ need to adapt to changing regulatory conditions and requirements, and (iv) changes in the customers’ preference or strategies. Technical difficulties and delays in the design and manufacturing processes may also affect such results. The foregoing factors may cause fluctuations in revenues and variations in product mix, which could in turn cause fluctuations in our gross margin. Under the terms of our contracts with many of our contract manufacturing customers, the customers have broad discretion to control the volume and timing of product deliveries. Further, the contracts with our customers typically have no minimum purchase requirements. As a result, production may be reduced or discontinued at any time. Therefore, it is difficult for us to forecast the level of customer orders with certainty, making it difficult to schedule production and maximize manufacturing capacity. Other factors that may adversely affect our annual and quarterly results of operations include inexperience in manufacturing a particular product, inventory shortages or obsolescence, increasing labor costs or shortages, low gross margins on particular projects, an increase in lower-margin product revenue as a percentage of total revenues, price competition, and regulatory requirements. Because our business organization and our related cost structure anticipate supporting a certain minimum level of revenues, our limited ability to adjust the short-term cost structure would compound the adverse effect of any significant revenue reduction. Uncertain Protection of Intellectual Property To maintain the secrecy of some of our proprietary information, we rely on a combination of trade secret laws and internal security procedures. We typically require our employees, consultants, and advisors to execute confidentiality and assignment of inventions agreements. There can be no assurance, however, that the common law, statutory, and contractual rights on which we rely to protect our intellectual property and confidential and proprietary information will provide us with adequate or meaningful protection. Third parties may independently develop products, techniques, or information that are substantially equivalent to the products, techniques, or information that we consider proprietary. In addition, proprietary information regarding us could be disclosed in a manner against which we have no meaningful remedy. Disputes regarding our intellectual property could force us into expensive and protracted litigation or costly agreements with third parties. An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to reach an agreement with a third party regarding intellectual property rights could prevent us from manufacturing and selling certain of our products. Limited Market for Common Stock Historically, the market for ZEVEX’s Common Stock has been limited due to the relatively low trading volume and the small number of brokerage firms acting as market makers. ZEVEX’s Common Stock is listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market. No assurance can be given, however, that the market for the Common Stock will continue or increase or that the prices in such market will be maintained at their present levels. Possible Volatility of Stock Price Announcements of technological innovations for new commercial devices by us or our competitors, developments concerning our proprietary rights, or the public concern as to the safety of our devices may have a material adverse impact on our business and on the market price of our Common Stock. The market price of ZEVEX Common Stock may be volatile and may fluctuate based on a number of factors, including significant announcements by us and our competitors, quarterly fluctuations in our operating results, and general economic conditions and conditions in the medical device industry. In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have had a substantial effect on the market prices for many medical device companies and are often unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. Issuance of Additional Shares for Acquisition or Expansion Any future major acquisition or expansion by us may include the issuance of additional common shares or other stocks or instruments that may be authorized without shareholder approval. The issuance of subsequent securities may also result in substantial dilution in the percentage of the Common Stock held by existing shareholders at the time of any such transaction. Moreover, the shares or warrants issued in connection with any such transaction may be valued by our management based on factors other than the trading price on the NASDAQ Stock Market. Impact of Anti-Takeover Measures; Possible Issuance of Preferred Stock; Classified Board Certain Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law may have the effect of preventing, discouraging, or delaying a change in the control of ZEVEX and may maintain the incumbency of our Board of Directors and management. Such provisions could also limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of ZEVEX Common Stock. Pursuant to our Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors is authorized to fix the rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions, including voting rights, of unissued shares of ZEVEX Preferred Stock and to issue such stock without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of ZEVEX Common Stock will be subject to and may be adversely affected by the rights of the holders of any Preferred Stock that may be created and issued in the future. In addition, stockholders do not have the right to cumulative voting for the election of directors. Furthermore, our Certificate and Bylaws provide for a staggered board whereby only two to three of the total number of directors are replaced or re-elected each year. The Certificate also provides that the provisions of the Certificate relating to the number, vacancies, and classification of the Board of Directors may only be amended by a vote of at least 66 2/3% of the shareholders. Finally, the Bylaws provide that special meetings of the stockholders may only be called by the President or any Director of ZEVEX or pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the Board of Directors. ZEVEX is subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (“Section 203”), which restricts certain transactions and business combinations between a corporation and an “Interested Stockholder” owning 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock for a period of three years from the date the stockholder becomes an Interested Stockholder. Subject to certain exceptions, unless the transaction is approved in a prescribed manner, Section 203 prohibits significant business transactions such as a merger with, disposition of assets to, or receipt of disproportionate financial benefits by the Interested Stockholder, or any other transactions that would increase the Interested Stockholder’s proportionate ownership of any class or series of the corporation’s stock. Foreign Exchange, Currency, and Political Risk Our international business is subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, nationalization, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, the overlap of different tax structures, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, or other restrictive government actions such as capital regulations. We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our foreign sales commitments and anticipated foreign sales because the prices charged for our products are denominated in U.S. dollars. Consequently, our foreign sales commitments and anticipated sales could be adversely affected by an appreciation of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 