Risk Factors—Risks Related to EMG—Market Risks." As of December 31, 2010, Midwest Generation leased approximately 3,900 railcars to transport the coal from the mines to the generating stations and the leases have remaining terms that range from less than one year to nine years, with options to extend the leases or purchase some railcars at the end of the lease terms. Homer City's Units 1 and 2 collectively consumes approximately 3.3 million to 3.5 million tons of mid-range sulfur coal per year. Two types of coal are purchased, ready-to-burn and raw coal. Ready-to-burn coal is of the quality that can be burned directly in Units 1 and 2, whereas the raw coal purchased for consumption by Units 1 and 2 must be cleaned in the Homer City coal cleaning facility, which has the capacity to clean up to 5 million tons of coal per year. Unit 3 consumes approximately 2 million tons of coal per year and can consume either raw or ready-to-burn coal. A wet scrubber FGD system for Unit 3 enables this unit to burn less expensive, higher sulfur coal, while still meeting environmental standards for emission control. In general, the coal purchased for all three units is acquired locally and originates from mines that are within approximately 100 miles of the Homer City plant. Homer City purchases the majority of its coal under term contracts with the balance purchased in the spot market as needed. Competition EMG is subject to competition from energy marketers, public utilities, government-owned power agencies, industrial companies, financial institutions, and other independent power producers. These companies may have competitive advantages as a result of scale, the location of their generation facilities, or other factors. Some of EMG's competitors have a lower cost of capital than most independent power producers and, in the case of utilities, are often able to recover fixed costs through rate base mechanisms, allowing them to build, buy and upgrade generation without relying exclusively on market clearing prices to recover their investments. State and local environmental regulations, particularly those that impose stringent state-specific emission limits in Illinois, could put EMG's coal plants at a disadvantage compared with competing power plants operating in nearby states and subject to less stringent state emission limits or to federal emission limits alone, and the CPS could put the Midwest Generation plants at a disadvantage compared with competing plants not subject to similar regulations. Potential future climate change regulations could also put EMG's coal plants at a disadvantage compared to both power plants utilizing other fuels and utilities that may be able to recover climate change compliance costs through rate base mechanisms. In addition, the ability of these plants to compete may be affected by governmental and regulatory activities designed to support the construction and operation of power generation facilities fueled by renewable energy sources. Asset Management and Trading Activities EMG's power marketing and trading subsidiary, EMMT, manages the energy and capacity of EMG's merchant generating plants and, in addition, trades electric power, gas, oil and related commodity and 12 Table of Contents financial products, including forwards, futures, options and swaps. EMMT segregates its activities into two categories: •Asset Management—EMMT engages in the sale of energy and capacity and the purchase of fuels, including coal, natural gas and fuel oil, through intercompany contracts with EMG's subsidiaries that own or lease EMG's facilities. EMG uses derivative instruments to reduce its exposure to market risks that arise from price fluctuations of electricity, capacity, fuel, emission allowances, and transmission rights. The objective of these activities is to sell the output of EMG's facilities on a forward basis or to hedge the risk of future changes in prices. Hedging activities include on-peak and off-peak periods and may include load service requirements contracts with local utilities. Transactions related to hedging activities are designated separately from EMMT's trading activities. Not all contracts entered into by EMMT for hedging purposes qualify as hedges for accounting purposes. •Trading—As an extension of its asset management activities, EMMT seeks to generate trading profits from volatility in the price of electricity, capacity, fuels, and transmission congestion by buying and selling contracts in wholesale markets under limitations approved by EMG's risk management committee. 13 Table of Contents Properties Power Plants in Operation As of December 31, 2010, EMG's operations consisted of ownership or leasehold interests in the following operating projects: Power Plants Location Primary Electric Purchaser2 Fuel Type EME's Ownership Interest Net Physical Capacity (in MW) EME's Capacity Pro Rata Share (in MW) MERCHANT POWER PLANTS Midwest Generation plants1 Illinois PJM coal 100 % 5,172 5,172 Midwest Generation plants1 Illinois PJM oil 100 % 305 305 Homer City plant1 Pennsylvania PJM coal 100 % 1,884 1,884 Merchant Wind Goat Wind Texas ERCOT wind 99.9 %3 150 150 Lookout Pennsylvania PJM wind 100 % 38 38 CONTRACTED POWER PLANTS – Domestic Natural Gas Big 4 Projects Kern River1 California SCE natural gas 50 % 300 150 Midway-Sunset1 California SCE natural gas 50 % 225 113 Sycamore1 California SCE natural gas 50 % 300 150 Watson California SCE natural gas 49 % 385 189 Westside Projects (4)1 California PG&E natural gas 50 % 152 76 Sunrise1 California CDWR natural gas 50 % 572 286 Renewable Energy Buffalo Bear Oklahoma WFEC wind 100 % 19 19 Cedro Hill Texas CSA wind 100 % 150 150 Crosswinds Iowa CBPC wind 99 %3 21 21 Elkhorn Ridge Nebraska NPPD wind 67 % 80 53 Forward Pennsylvania CECG wind 100 % 29 29 Hardin Iowa IPLC wind 99 %3 15 15 High Lonesome New Mexico APSC wind 100 % 100 100 Jeffers Minnesota NSPC wind 99.9 %3 50 50 Minnesota Wind projects4 Minnesota NSPC/IPLC wind 75-99 %3 83 75 Mountain Wind I Wyoming PC wind 100 % 61 61 Mountain Wind II Wyoming PC wind 100 % 80 80 Odin Minnesota MRES wind 99.9 %3 20 20 San Juan Mesa New Mexico SPS wind 75 % 120 90 Sleeping Bear Oklahoma PSCO wind 100 % 95 95 Spanish Fork Utah PC wind 100 % 19 19 Storm Lake1 Iowa MEC wind 100 % 108 108 Wildorado Texas SPS wind 99.9 %3 161 161 Huntington Waste-to-Energy New York LIPA biomass 38 % 25 9 Coal American Bituminous1 West Virginia MPC waste coal 50 % 80 40 CONTRACTED POWER PLANTS – International Doga Republic of Turkey TEDAS natural gas 80 % 180 144 Total 10,979 9,852 1Plant is operated under contract by an EME operations and maintenance subsidiary or the plant is operated or managed directly by an EME subsidiary. 14 Table of Contents 2Electric purchaser abbreviations are as follows: APSC Arizona Public Service Company NSPC Northern States Power Company CBPC Corn Belt Power Cooperative PC PacifiCorp CDWR California Department of Water Resources PG&E Pacific Gas & Electric Company CECG Constellation Energy Commodities Group, Inc. PJM PJM Interconnection, LLC CSA City of San Antonio ERCOT Electric Reliability Council of Texas PSCO Public Service Company of Oklahoma IPLC Interstate Power and Light Company LIPA Long Island Power Authority SCE Southern California Edison Company MEC Mid-American Energy Company SPS Southwestern Public Service MPC Monongahela Power Company TEDAS Türkiye Elektrik Dagitim Anonim Sirketi MRES Missouri River Energy Services WFEC Western Farmers Electric Cooperative NPPD Nebraska Public Power District 3Represents EME's current ownership interest. If the project achieves a specified rate of return, EME's interest will decrease. 4Comprised of seven individual wind projects. Renewable Development Activities At December 31, 2010, EMG had a development pipeline of potential wind projects with projected installed capacity of approximately 3,600 MW and had four projects totaling 480 MW under construction. Projects under construction at December 31, 2010 were as follows: Wind Project Location Primary Electric Purchaser Ownership Interest EME's Capacity Pro Rata Share (in MW) Big Sky Illinois Merchant1 100 % 240 Taloga Oklahoma Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company2 100 % 130 Laredo Ridge Nebraska Nebraska Public Power District2 100 % 80 CWN Minnesota Northern States Power Company2 99 % 30 Total 480 1Plan to sell renewable energy credits into the PJM market as merchant generator or to third-party customers under power sales contracts. Sold 48 MW of capacity into a forward-year RPM auction. 2Twenty-year power purchase agreement. Laredo Ridge and Big Sky achieved commercial operation on February 1, 2011 and February 18, 2011, respectively. EMG anticipates that the remaining projects under construction will also achieve commercial operation in 2011. In addition to the projects under construction at December 31, 2010, EMG expects the 55 MW Pinnacle project in West Virginia will commence construction in 2011 with anticipated commercial operation in 2011. For more information, see "Edison International Overview—EMG Renewable Program" in the MD&A. Significant Customers For information on EMG's significant customers, see "Item 8. Edison International Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 6. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." Energy and Infrastructure Investments EMG's energy and infrastructure investments are held by Edison Capital in the form of leveraged leases, partnership interests in international infrastructure funds and affordable housing projects in the United States. 15 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, Edison Capital is the lessor with an investment balance (including current lease receivable) of $166 million in the following leveraged leases: Transaction Asset Location Basic Lease Term Ends Investment Balance (In millions) Vidalia: selling power to Entergy Louisiana, City of Vidalia 192 MW hydro power plant Vidalia, Louisiana 2020 $ 73 Beaver Valley: selling power to Ohio Edison Company, Centerior Energy Corporation 836 MW nuclear power plant Shippingport, Pennsylvania 2017 $ 53 American Airlines 3 Boeing 767 ER aircraft Domestic and international routes 2016 $ 40 Seasonality Due to fluctuations in electric demand resulting from warm weather during the summer months and cold weather during the winter months, electric revenues from the coal plants normally vary substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, maintenance outages generally are scheduled during periods of lower projected electric demand (spring and fall), further reducing generation and increasing major maintenance costs which are recorded as an expense when incurred. Accordingly, income from the coal plants is seasonal and has significant variability from quarter to quarter. Seasonal fluctuations may also be affected by changes in market prices. For further discussion regarding market prices, see "EMG: Market Risk Exposures—Commodity Price Risk—Energy Price Risk Affecting Sales from the Coal Plants" in the MD&A. EME's third quarter equity in income from its unconsolidated energy projects is normally higher than equity in income related to other quarters of the year due to seasonal fluctuations and higher energy contract prices during the summer months. ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION OF EDISON INTERNATIONAL AND SUBSIDIARIES Because Edison International does not own or operate any assets, other than the stock of its subsidiaries, it does not have any direct environmental obligations or liabilities. However, legislative and regulatory activities by federal, state, and local authorities in the United States relating to energy and the environment impose numerous restrictions on the operation of existing facilities and affect the timing, cost, location, design, construction and operation of new facilities by Edison International's subsidiaries, as well as the cost of mitigating the environmental impacts of past operations. Many of these laws, regulations and other activities affect both SCE and EMG's subsidiaries, although not always to the same extent. The environmental regulations and other developments discussed below have the largest impact on fossil-fuel fired power plants, and therefore the discussion in this section focuses on regulations applicable to the states of California, New Mexico, Illinois and Pennsylvania, where such facilities are located. Edison International continues to monitor legislative and regulatory developments and to evaluate possible strategies for compliance with environmental regulations. Additional information about environmental matters affecting Edison International, including projected environmental capital expenditures, is included in the MD&A under the heading "SCE: Liquidity—Capital Investment Plan" and in "Item 8. Edison International Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies" and "Note 10.—Regulatory and Environmental Developments." Greenhouse Gas Regulation There have been a number of federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives to reduce GHG emissions. Any climate change regulation or other legal obligation that would require substantial reductions in emissions of GHGs or that would impose additional costs or charges for the emission of GHGs could significantly increase the cost of generating electricity from fossil fuels, and especially from coal-fired plants, as well as the cost of purchased power, which could adversely affect Edison International. 16 Table of Contents Federal Legislative/Regulatory Developments Efforts to pass comprehensive federal climate change legislation have not yet been successful. The timing, content and potential effects on Edison International of any legislation that may be enacted remain uncertain. However, the US EPA has begun to issue federal GHG regulations that are likely to impact the operations of Edison International's subsidiaries. In June 2010, the US EPA issued the Prevention of Significant Deterioration ("PSD") and Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule, known as the "GHG tailoring rule." This regulation generally subjects newly constructed sources of GHG emissions and newly modified existing major sources to the PSD air permitting program beginning in January 2011 (and later, to the Title V permitting program under the CAA); however the GHG tailoring rule significantly increases the emissions thresholds that apply before facilities are subjected to these programs. The emissions thresholds for CO2 equivalents in the final rule vary from 75,000 tons per year to 100,000 tons per year depending on the date and whether the sources are new or modified. A challenge to the GHG tailoring rule (along with other GHG regulations and determinations issued by the US EPA) is pending before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. Regulation of GHG emissions pursuant to the PSD program could affect efforts to modify EMG's or SCE's facilities in the future, and could subject new capital projects to additional permitting and pollution control requirements that could delay such projects. If EMG or SCE is required to install controls in the future or otherwise modify its operations in order to reduce GHG emissions, the potential impact of the GHG tailoring rule will depend on the nature and timing of the controls or modifications, which remain uncertain. In December 2010, the US EPA announced that it had entered into a settlement with various states and environmental groups to resolve a long-standing dispute over regulation of GHGs from electrical generating units pursuant to the New Source Performance Standards in the CAA. Under the pending settlement, the US EPA will propose performance standards for GHG emissions from new and modified power plants and emissions guidelines for existing power plants in July 2011, and will finalize such regulations by May 2012, with compliance dates for existing power plants expected to be in 2015 or 2016. The specific requirements will not be known until the regulations are finalized. Since January 2010, the US EPA's Final Mandatory GHG Reporting Rule has required all sources within specified categories, including electric generation facilities, to monitor emissions and to submit annual reports to the US EPA by March 31 of each year, with the first report due on March 31, 2011. EMG's 2010 GHG emissions were approximately 50.2 million metric tons. SCE's 2010 GHG emissions were approximately 6.5 million metric tons. Regional Initiatives and State Legislation Regional initiatives and state legislation may also require reductions of GHG emissions and it is not yet clear whether or to what extent any federal legislation would preempt them. If state and/or regional initiatives remain in effect after federal legislation is enacted, generators and utilities could be required to satisfy them in addition to the federal standards. Edison International subsidiary operations in California are subject to two laws governing GHG emissions. The first law, the California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006 (also referred to as AB 32), establishes a comprehensive program to reduce GHG emissions. AB 32 requires the California Air Resources Board ("CARB") to develop regulations, effective in 2012, that would reduce California's GHG emissions to 1990 levels in yearly increments by 2020. In December 2010, the CARB finalized regulations establishing a California cap-and-trade program, which include revisions to the CARB's mandatory GHG emissions reporting regulation. The regulations and the cap-and-trade program itself are being challenged by various citizens' groups under the California Environmental Quality Act. The second law, SB 1368, required the CPUC and the CEC to adopt GHG emission performance standards restricting the ability of California investor-owned and publicly owned utilities, respectively, to enter into long-term arrangements for the purchase of electricity. The standards that have been adopted prohibit these entities, including SCE, from entering into long-term financial commitments with generators that emit more than 1,100 pounds of CO2 per MWh, the performance of a combined-cycle gas turbine generator. Accordingly, the prohibition applies to most coal-fired plants. Utility purchases of power 17 Table of Contents generated by EMG's California facilities are subject to the emissions performance standards established in SB 1368. EMG believes that all of its California facilities meet SB 1368 standards, but EMG will continue to monitor the regulations, as they are developed, for potential impact on its existing facilities and its projects under development. SB 1368 also affects the ability of utilities to make long-term capital investments in generators that do not meet the emission performance standards. SB 1368 may prohibit SCE from making emission control expenditures at Four Corners. See "Item 8. Edison International Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2. Property, Plant and Equipment" for information on the sale of SCE's interest in Four Corners. California law also requires SCE to increase its electricity generated from renewable resources by at least 1% of its annual retail electricity sales per year so that 20% of its annual electricity sales are provided from such resources (the "RPS Program") by no later than December 31, 2010 or such later date as flexible compliance requirements permit. Through December 31, 2010, SCE estimates its delivery of eligible renewable resources to customers to be 19% of its total energy portfolio. In accordance with the procurement rules and regulations, SCE expects to demonstrate full compliance with the RPS Program in its March 2011 filing. In addition, in September 2010, the CARB adopted a Renewable Electricity Standard, which requires SCE to demonstrate renewable energy production equal to 33% of its sales to retail customers for 2020 and each year thereafter. Subsequently, in February 2011, a California Senate bill was introduced that would impose a similar requirement that California utilities purchase 33% of their electricity requirements from renewable resources. It is unclear whether the legislation will preempt the CARB's standard, if it is enacted. Edison International subsidiary operations in California and New Mexico may also be affected by the Western Climate Initiative ("WCI"), an agreement entered into by California, other western states and certain Canadian provinces, to develop strategies to reduce GHG emissions in the region to 15% below 2005 levels by 2020. In July 2010, the WCI partners released a comprehensive strategy for a regional cap-and-trade program, with a planned start date of January 2012, to help achieve their reduction goal. Recent political developments make it uncertain whether this regional program will proceed and what form it might take. As noted above, California is implementing its own program to reduce GHG emissions. EMG's operations in Illinois may be affected by the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord, an initiative by which six Midwestern states, including Illinois, and the Canadian province of Manitoba agreed to develop regional GHG emission reduction goals using a multi-sector cap-and-trade program. In May 2010, the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord Advisory Group finalized recommendations and a model rule for emissions reduction targets and the design of a regional cap-and-trade program to serve as a basis for individual state legislative or regulatory action. However, there is substantial uncertainty as to whether the parties to the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord intend to continue their efforts to develop or implement such a program, especially in light of the failure to pass a federal cap-and-trade program in the 111th Congress. Litigation Developments Litigation alleging that GHG is a public and private nuisance may affect Edison International and its subsidiaries, whether or not they are named as defendants. The law is unsettled on whether this litigation presents questions capable of judicial resolution or political questions that should be resolved by the legislative or executive branches. In December 2010, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to review a case in which an appellate panel had endorsed the availability of judicial remedies for nuisance allegedly caused by GHG emissions associated with climate change. Oral argument before the Supreme Court is scheduled for April 2011. Currently pending, while the Supreme Court considers the matter before it, is an appeal before the Ninth Circuit of a federal district order dismissing a case against Edison International and other defendants brought by the Alaskan Native Village of Kivalina in which the plaintiffs seek damages of up to $400 million for the cost of relocating the village, which plaintiffs claim is no longer protected from storms because the Arctic sea ice has melted as the result of climate change. Edison International and the other defendants in the lawsuit recently requested the Ninth Circuit to defer oral argument on the appeal pending the Supreme Court's decision on related issues. 18 Table of Contents Edison International cannot predict whether the legal principles emerging from the Supreme Court or any of the cases in the appellate courts will result in the filing of new actions with similar claims or whether Congress, in considering climate legislation, will address directly the availability of courts to resolve claims associated with climate change. Air Quality The CAA, which regulates air pollutants from mobile and stationary sources, has a significant impact on the operation of fossil fuel plants, especially coal-fired plants. The CAA requires the US EPA to establish concentration levels in the ambient air for six criteria pollutants to protect public health and welfare. These concentration levels are known as National Ambient Air Quality Standards, or NAAQS. The six criteria pollutants are carbon monoxide, lead, nitrogen dioxide, ozone, particulate matter, and SO2. Federal environmental regulations of these criteria pollutants require states to adopt state implementation plans, known as SIPs, for certain pollutants, which detail how the state will attain the standards that are mandated by the relevant law or regulation. The SIPs must be equal to or more stringent than the federal requirements and must be submitted to the US EPA for approval. Each state identifies the areas within its boundaries that meet the NAAQS (attainment areas) and those that do not (non-attainment areas), and must develop a SIP both to bring non-attainment areas into compliance with the NAAQS and to maintain good air quality in attainment areas. If the attainment status of areas changes, states may be required to develop new SIPs that address the changes. Many of EMG's facilities are located in areas that have not attained NAAQS for ozone (affected by NOx emissions from power plants) and fine particulate matter (affected by SO2 and NOx emissions from power plants) and much of Southern California is in a non-attainment area for several criteria pollutants. As described further below, on December 11, 2006, Midwest Generation entered into an agreement with the Illinois EPA, which was subsequently embodied in an Illinois rule called the Combined Pollutant Standard or "CPS," to reduce mercury, NOx and SO2 emissions at the Midwest Generation plants. The CPS requires Midwest Generation to achieve air emission reductions for NOx and SO2, and those reductions should contribute to or effect compliance with various existing US EPA ambient air quality standards. It is possible that if lower ozone, particulate matter, NOx or SO2 NAAQS are finalized by US EPA in the future, Illinois may implement regulations that are more stringent than those required by the CPS. Nitrogen Oxide and Sulfur Dioxide Clean Air Interstate and Transport Rules The CAIR, issued by the US EPA on March 10, 2005, mandated significant reductions in NOx and SO2 emission allowance caps under the CAA in 28 eastern states and the District of Columbia. In 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit initially vacated the CAIR, but later remanded the CAIR to the US EPA for the issuance of a revised rule. The CAIR will remain in effect until the US EPA finalizes a revised regulation. In July 2010, the US EPA issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for a proposed rule, known as the Transport Rule, which would require 31 eastern states (including Pennsylvania and Illinois) and the District of Columbia to reduce power plant emissions of NOx and SO2 substantially, starting in 2012, with additional reductions in 2014. The Transport Rule would replace the CAIR. The US EPA has proposed allocating emission allowances based on the historic and projected emissions data from power plants, along with three possible approaches to emissions allowance trading. Under its preferred approach, a pollution limit would be set for each state, intrastate trading of allowances would be permitted among power plants, and limited interstate trading would also be permitted consistent with the requirement that each state meet its own pollution control obligations. Under the first alternative, a pollution limit would be set for each state, and only intrastate trading of allowances would be permitted. Under the second alternative, a pollution limit would be set for each state, an emissions limit would be set for each power plant, and limited emissions averaging would be permitted among affected units. In January 2011, the US EPA proposed two other possible approaches to emission allowance allocation. Both approaches would allocate allowances among units within each state based on each unit's proportional 19 Table of Contents share of the state's total historic heat input, and the second approach would add a constraint based on a unit's reasonably foreseeable maximum emissions under the proposed Transport Rule trading programs. The Transport Rule is scheduled to be finalized in 2011. The CAIR will remain in place until that time. Depending on the approach adopted, the Transport Rule may provide allowance allocations for the Midwest Generation plants which are adequate for the plants' needs or may require the Midwest Generation plants to procure additional allowances, based on projected emissions using the Illinois CPS allowable emission rates. The Transport Rule may require the installation of additional environmental equipment on Units 1 and 2 at the Homer City plant to reduce SO2 emissions and, depending on the approach adopted, may also require Homer City to procure a significant number of additional allowances pending such installation or curtail operations if it is unable to do so on acceptable terms. Proposed NAAQS for Sulfur Dioxide In June 2010, the US EPA finalized the primary NAAQS for SO2 by establishing a new one-hour standard at a level of 75 parts per billion. The final standard is being taken into account in EMG's environmental compliance strategy. Revisions to SIPs to achieve compliance with the new standard are due to be submitted to the US EPA by February 2014, with a compliance deadline of August 2017. Illinois On December 11, 2006, Midwest Generation entered into an agreement with the Illinois EPA to reduce mercury, NOx and SO2 emissions at the Midwest Generation plants. The agreement has been embodied in the CPS. All of Midwest Generation's Illinois coal-fired electric generating units are subject to the CPS. The principal emission standards and control technology requirements for NOx and SO2 under the CPS are as described below: NOx Emissions—Beginning in calendar year 2012 and continuing in each calendar year thereafter, Midwest Generation must comply with an annual and seasonal NOx emission rate of no more than 0.11 lbs/million Btu. In addition to these standards, Midwest Generation must install and operate SNCR equipment on Units 7 and 8 at the Crawford Station by December 31, 2015. SO2 Emissions—Midwest Generation must comply with an overall SO2 annual emission rate beginning with 0.44 lbs/million Btu in 2013 and decreasing annually until it reaches 0.11 lbs/million Btu in 2019 and thereafter. The CPS also specifies the control technologies that are to be installed on some units by specified dates. In these cases, Midwest Generation must either install the required technology by the specified deadline or shut down the unit. The CPS also required Midwest Generation to shut down Unit 6 at the Waukegan Station by December 31, 2007, and Units 1 and 2 at the Will County Station by December 31, 2010, which it has done. During 2009, Midwest Generation also conducted tests of NOx removal technology based on SNCR that may be employed to meet CPS requirements. Based on this testing, Midwest Generation has concluded that installation of SNCR technology on multiple units will meet the NOx portion of the CPS. Capital expenditures for installation of SNCR equipment are expected to be approximately $109 million in 2011. Testing of dry scrubbing using Trona on select Midwest Generation units has demonstrated significant reductions in SO2 emissions. Use of this technology in conjunction with low sulfur coal is expected to require substantially less capital and time than spray dryer absorber technology, but would likely result in higher ongoing operating costs and may consequently result in lower dispatch rates and competitiveness of Midwest Generation's plants, depending on competitors' costs. For further discussion, see "Edison International Overview—Environmental Developments—Midwest Generation and Compliance Plans and Cost" in the MD&A. Pennsylvania The Homer City plant was subject to CAIR during 2010 and complied with both the NOx and SO2 requirements using existing equipment and purchasing of SO2 allowances. Pennsylvania adopted a state version of CAIR, which the US EPA approved in December 2009. Homer City expects to comply with the 20 Table of Contents Pennsylvania CAIR, which is substantially similar to the federal CAIR, in the same manner in which it complies with the federal CAIR. Mercury/Hazardous Air Pollutants Clean Air Mercury Rule/Hazardous Air Pollutant Regulations The CAMR was established by the US EPA as an attempt to reduce mercury emissions from existing coal-fired power plants using a cap-and-trade program. In February 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit vacated both the CAMR and the related US EPA decision to remove oil- and coal-fired power plants from the list of sources to be regulated under the provisions of the CAA governing the emissions of HAPs. In accordance with a consent decree entered in April 2010, the US EPA committed to proposing regulations by March 2011 limiting emissions of HAPs from coal- and oil-fired electrical generating units that are major sources of HAPs, and to finalizing such regulations by November 2011. The emissions standards must be designed to achieve the maximum degree of emission reduction that the US EPA determines is achievable for the affected units, taking into account costs and non-air quality environmental and health benefits (also referred to as maximum achievable control technology, or MACT, standard). Unlike the CAMR, the US EPA must regulate all of the HAPs emitted by these generating units. Compliance with the MACT standards will be required three years after the effective date of the final regulations. Until the US EPA's regulations are finalized, EMG cannot determine whether the actions it is taking to comply with other legal requirements (including the CPS) will be sufficient to address its obligations under the new HAPs regulations. Illinois Midwest Generation's compliance with the CPS supersedes the Illinois mercury regulations that would otherwise be applicable to the Midwest Generation plants. The CPS requires that, beginning in calendar year 2015, and continuing thereafter on a rolling 12-month basis, Midwest Generation must either achieve an emission standard of .008 lbs mercury/GWh gross electrical output or a minimum 90% reduction in mercury for each unit (except Unit 3 at the Will County Station, which will be included in calendar year 2016). Midwest Generation installed required carbon injection equipment on all operating units in 2009 to achieve the necessary mercury reductions. Capital expenditures relating to these controls were $42 million. Midwest Generation will be required to install cold side electrostatic precipitator or baghouse equipment on Unit 7 at the Waukegan Station by December 31, 2013, and on Unit 3 at the Will County Station by December 31, 2015. The IEPA granted Midwest Generation a construction permit to install a cold side electrostatic precipitator on Unit 7 in November 2010. Pennsylvania Until Pennsylvania passes new legislation authorizing the adoption of mercury regulations or the US EPA finalizes a revised HAPs regulation that includes mercury limits, the Homer City plant will not be required to comply with Pennsylvania mercury limitations. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection ("PADEP") attempted to implement regulations reducing the mercury emissions at coal-fired power plants by 80% by 2010 and 90% by 2015, as embodied in the Pennsylvania CAMR SIP. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court upheld a decision by the Commonwealth Court declaring Pennsylvania's mercury rule unlawful, invalid and unenforceable, and enjoining the continued implementation and enforcement of the rule. Ozone and Particulates National Ambient Air Quality Standards In January 2010, the US EPA proposed a revision to the primary and secondary NAAQS for 8-hour ozone that it had finalized in 2008. The 8-hour ozone standard established in 2008 was 0.075 parts per million. In January 2010, the US EPA proposed establishing a primary 8-hour ozone NAAQS between 0.060 and 0.070 parts per million and a distinct secondary standard to protect sensitive vegetation and ecosystems. The US 21 Table of Contents EPA is expected to finalize the revision to the ozone NAAQS by July 2011. It is expected that once the US EPA finalizes the revised ozone NAAQS, it will propose a second Transport Rule that may further affect electric power generating units. The US EPA is also expected to propose revised fine particulate matter NAAQS in 2011, which could result in further emission reduction requirements in future years. Illinois The Illinois SIP for compliance with 1997 8-hour ozone standard was submitted to the US EPA in March 2009. The SIP for fine particulates was submitted to the US EPA in June 2010. As the fine particulate and ozone standards are finalized, as described above, Illinois may be required to implement additional emission control measures to address emissions of NOx, SO2 and volatile organic compounds. Pennsylvania In August 2007, the US EPA accepted PADEP's maintenance plan, which indicated that the existing (and upcoming) regulations controlling emissions of volatile organic compounds and NOx will result in continued compliance with the 1997 8-hour ozone standard. However, in March 2009, the PADEP recommended to the US EPA that Indiana County (where the Homer City plant is located) be designated non-attainment under the US EPA's 2008 revised 8-hour ozone standard. Until the US EPA completes its revision to the 8-hour ozone standard, redesignations are finalized, and additional regulations are developed to achieve attainment with the revised standard, EMG will not know what specific requirements it will have to meet. However, EMG expects that its currently installed SCRs will be capable of meeting these new requirements. Effective April 1, 2009, the PADEP changed its air opacity policy, eliminating many exemptions and reducing the allowable exceedance rate to 0.5% of a unit's operating time. Homer City undertook optimization of unit ramp rates and combustion parameters at the Homer City plant to reduce the deratings required to meet the opacity standards. Additional capital improvements may also be required. Homer City operated below the 0.5% exceedance rate during 2010. With respect to fine particulates, in November 2009, the US EPA determined that Indiana County (where the Homer City plant is located) had not attained applicable standards. The PADEP must submit an updated SIP by November 13, 2012. EMG cannot predict the potential effects on the Homer City plant of changes to the SIP. Regional Haze The regional haze rules under the CAA are designed to prevent impairment of visibility in certain federally designated areas. The goal of the rules is to restore visibility in mandatory federal Class I areas, such as national parks and wilderness areas, to natural background conditions by 2064. Sources such as power plants that are reasonably anticipated to contribute to visibility impairment in Class I areas may be required to install best available retrofit technology ("BART") or implement other control strategies to meet regional haze control requirements. The US EPA issued a final rulemaking on regional haze in 2005 requiring emission controls that constitute BART for industrial facilities that emit air pollutants which reduce visibility by causing or contributing to regional haze. These amendments required states to develop SIPs to comply with BART by December 2007, to identify the facilities that will have to reduce SO2, NOx and particulate matter emissions, and then to set BART emissions limits for those facilities. Failure to do so would result in the imposition of a FIP. Because the Four Corners plant is located on the Navajo Reservation there is no applicable SIP and the plant will be subject only to a FIP. In relation to Four Corners, the US EPA issued its proposed FIP in October 2010. The proposed FIP would require the installation of SCR pollution control equipment by approximately 2016 on all Four Corners units. In November 2010, SCE and APS entered into an agreement for the sale of SCE's Four Corners interest to APS, subject to regulatory approvals and other conditions. A final FIP is expected in 2011. Due to the investment constraints of SB 1368, the California law on GHG emission performance standards discussed above in "—Climate Change—Regional Initiatives and State Legislation," SCE does not expect to be a Four Corners participant after the 2016 expiration of the current participant agreements and does not expect to participate in any investment in Four Corners SCRs. See "Item 8. Edison International Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2. Property, Plant and Equipment" for more information on the sale of SCE's interest in Four Corners. 22 Table of Contents Illinois and Pennsylvania Beginning on December 31, 2009 Illinois and Pennsylvania became subject to a two-year deadline after which a FIP (which has not yet been proposed) will govern related emission issues. Pennsylvania submitted its proposed SIP revisions to the US EPA in December 2010 and Illinois is has prepared proposed revisions to its SIP and is expected to submit them to the US EPA in 2011. Illinois proposes that the emission reductions that the Midwest Generation plants will be required to make pursuant to the CPS, discussed above in "—Nitrogen Oxide and Sulfur Dioxide—Illinois," satisfy the BART requirement. Pennsylvania also proposes that the existing particulate matter emission limits on the Homer City plant, as well as the plant's participation in the CAIR, will satisfy the BART requirement in that state. New Source Review Requirements The NSR regulations impose certain requirements on facilities, such as electric generating stations, if modifications are made to air emissions sources at the facility. Since 1999, the US EPA has pursued a coordinated compliance and enforcement strategy to address NSR compliance issues at the nation's coal-fired power plants. The strategy has included both the filing of suits against a number of power plant owners, and the issuance of administrative NOVs to a number of power plant owners alleging NSR violations. The US EPA has filed enforcement actions against Homer City and Midwest Generation alleging NSR violations. For further discussion, see "Item 8. Edison International Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies." New Mexico In April 2009, APS, as operating agent of Four Corners, received a US EPA request pursuant to Section 114 of the CAA for information about Four Corners, including information about Four Corners' capital projects from 1990 to the present. SCE understands that in other cases the US EPA has utilized responses to similar Section 114 letters to examine whether power plants have triggered NSR requirements under the CAA. In May 2010, four environmental organizations (Dine CARE, National Parks Conservation Association, Sierra Club, and To Nizhoni Ani) served SCE and the other Four Corners owners with a notice of intent to sue under the CAA alleging violations of NSR requirements. The US EPA has not initiated any NSR enforcement-related proceedings with respect to Four Corners. See "Item 8. Edison International Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2. Property, Plant and Equipment," for more information on the sale of SCE's interest in Four Corners. Water Quality Clean Water Act Regulations under the federal Clean Water Act govern critical parameters at generating facilities, such as the temperature of effluent discharges and the location, design and construction of cooling water intake structures at generating facilities. The US EPA is rewriting these regulations following a 2009 U.S. Supreme Court decision holding that the US EPA may consider, but is not required to use, a cost-benefit analysis for this purpose. The Supreme Court set a deadline of March 2011 for draft regulations, which are to be finalized by July 2011. Because there are no defined compliance targets absent a new rule, EMG and SCE are reviewing a wide range of possible control technologies. A new rule could have a material impact on EMG and SCE, but neither EMG nor SCE can determine the financial impact until the final compliance criteria have been published. California—Prohibition on the Use of Ocean-Based Once-Through Cooling California has a US EPA-approved program to issue individual or group (general) permits for the regulation of Clean Water Act discharges. California also regulates certain discharges not regulated by the US EPA. In May 2010 the California State Water Resources Control Board issued a final policy, which establishes closed-cycle wet cooling as required technology for retrofitting existing once-through cooled plants like SCE's San Onofre and many of the existing fossil-fueled power plants along the California coast. The final policy, which took effect on October 1, 2010, requires an independent engineering study to be completed prior to the fourth quarter of 2013 regarding the feasibility of compliance by California's two 23 Table of Contents coastal nuclear power plants, which may result in significant capital expenditures at San Onofre and may affect its operations. The policy could adversely affect California's nineteen once-through cooled power plants, which provide over 21,000 MW of combined, in-state generation capacity, including over 9,100 MW of capacity interconnected within SCE's service territory. The policy may also significantly impact SCE's ability to procure generating capacity from fossil-fuel plants that use ocean water in once-through cooling systems, system reliability and the cost of electricity if other coastal power plants in California are forced to shut down or limit operations. Illinois Midwest Generation is a party to an administrative proceeding before the Illinois Pollution Control Board ("PCB") to determine whether more stringent thermal and effluent water quality standards for the Chicago Area Waterway System and Lower Des Plaines River, which supply cooling water to Midwest Generation's Fisk, Crawford, Will County and Joliet Stations, will be implemented. The rule, if implemented, is expected to affect the manner in which those stations use water for station cooling. It is not possible to predict the timing for resolution of the proceeding, the final form of the rule, or how it would impact the operation of the affected stations; however, significant capital expenditures may be required. Coal Combustion Wastes US EPA regulations currently classify coal ash and other coal combustion residuals as solid wastes that are exempt from hazardous waste requirements. This classification enables beneficial uses of coal combustion residuals, such as for cement production and fill materials. Midwest Generation currently provides a portion of its coal combustion residuals for beneficial uses. In June 2010, the US EPA published proposed regulations relating to coal combustion residuals. Two different proposed approaches are under consideration. The first approach, under which the US EPA would list these residuals as special wastes subject to regulation as hazardous wastes, could require EMG and SCE to incur additional capital and operating costs without assurance that the additional costs could be recovered. For SCE, to the extent such expenditures are for long-term extended operation of Four Corners, SCE does not expect to participate in any such expenditures consistent with SB 1368, the California law on GHG emission performance standards (see "—Climate Change—Regional Initiatives and State Legislation" above for a description of SB 1368). The second approach, under which the US EPA would regulate these residuals as nonhazardous wastes, would establish minimum technical standards for units that are used for the disposal of coal combustion residuals, but would allow procedural and enforcement mechanisms (such as permit requirements) to be exclusively a matter of state law. Many of the proposed technical standards are similar under both proposed options, but the second approach would not require the retrofitting of landfills used for the disposal of coal combustion residuals. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATING TO EDISON INTERNATIONAL Edison International's subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and the risk of adverse regulatory decisions and changes in applicable regulations or legislation. SCE operates in a highly regulated environment. SCE's business is subject to extensive federal, state and local energy, environmental and other laws and regulations. The CPUC regulates SCE's retail operations, and the FERC regulates SCE's wholesale operations. The NRC regulates SCE's nuclear power plants. The construction, planning, and project site identification of SCE's power plants and transmission lines in California are also subject to the jurisdiction of the California Energy Commission (for plants 50 MW or greater), and the CPUC. The construction, planning and project site identification of transmission lines that are outside of California are subject to the regulation of the relevant state agency. SCE must periodically apply for licenses and permits from these various regulatory authorities and abide by their respective orders. Should SCE be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits or should these regulatory authorities initiate any investigations or enforcement actions or impose penalties or disallowances on SCE, SCE's business could be adversely affected. EMG's projects are subject to federal laws and regulations that govern, among other things, transactions by and with purchasers of power, including utility companies, the development and construction of generation facilities, the ownership and operations of generation facilities, and access to transmission. Generation facilities are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the geographical location, zoning, land use and operation of a project. EMG in the course of its business must obtain and periodically renew licenses, permits and approvals for its facilities. The FERC may impose various forms of market mitigation measures, including price caps and operating restrictions, where it determines that potential market power might exist and that the public interest requires mitigation. Independent System Operators and Regional Transmission Operators may impose bidding and scheduling rules, both to curb the potential exercise of market power and to facilitate market functions. This extensive governmental regulation creates significant risks and uncertainties for Edison International's business. Existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to SCE, EMG or their facilities or operations in a manner that may have a detrimental effect on Edison International's business or result in significant additional costs. Edison International's subsidiaries are subject to extensive environmental regulations that may involve significant and increasing costs and adversely affect them. Edison International's subsidiaries are subject to extensive and frequently changing environmental regulations and permitting requirements that involve significant and increasing costs and substantial uncertainty. SCE and EMG devote significant resources to environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment and emission allowances to comply with existing and anticipated environmental regulatory requirements. However, the current trend is toward more stringent standards, stricter regulation, and more expansive application of environmental regulations. The adoption of laws and regulations to implement greenhouse gas controls could adversely affect operations, particularly of the coal-fired plants. Other environmental laws, particularly with respect to air emissions, disposal of ash, wastewater discharge, and cooling water systems, are also generally becoming more stringent. The continued operation of SCE and EMG facilities, particularly the coal-fired facilities, is expected to require substantial capital expenditures for environmental controls or cessation of operations. Cessation of operations of such coal-fired plants at EMG would have a material adverse effect. SCE and EMG may also be exposed to risks arising from past, current or future contamination at its former or existing facilities or with respect to off site waste disposal sites that have been used in its operations. Current and future state laws and regulations in California also could increase the required amount of power that must be procured from renewable resources. For further discussion of the environmental regulations applicable to Edison International and its subsidiaries, see "Item 1. Business—Environmental Regulation of Edison International and Subsidiaries." 25 Table of Contents Edison International may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds for an extended period to Edison International. Edison International is a holding company and, as such, it has no operations of its own. Edison International's ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock at the current rate is primarily dependent on the earnings and cash flows of its subsidiaries and their ability to make upstream distributions or to repay funds to Edison International. Prior to funding Edison International, Edison International's subsidiaries have financial and regulatory obligations that must be satisfied, including, among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. Financial market and economic conditions may have an adverse effect on Edison International's subsidiaries. See "Risks Relating to SCE" and "Risks Relating to EMG" below for further discussion. RISKS RELATING TO SCE Regulatory Risks SCE's financial results depend upon its ability to recover its costs in a timely manner from its customers through regulated rates. SCE's ongoing financial results depend on its ability to recover from its customers in a timely manner its costs, including the costs of electricity purchased for its customers, through the rates it charges its customers as approved by the CPUC, and its ability to pass through to its customers in rates its FERC-authorized revenue requirements. SCE's financial results also depend on its ability to earn through the rates it is allowed to charge an adequate return on capital, including long-term debt and equity. SCE's capital investment plan, California's commitment to renewable power, increasing environmental regulations, sensitivity to increasing natural gas costs and moderating demand, collectively place continuing upward pressure on customer rates. If SCE is unable to obtain a sufficient rate increase or to recover material amounts of its costs in rates in a timely manner or recover an adequate return on capital, its financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. For further information on SCE's rate requests, see "Edison International Overview—SCE Rate Cases" in the MD&A. SCE's energy procurement activities are subject to regulatory and market risks that could adversely affect its financial condition and liquidity. SCE obtains energy, capacity, renewable attributes and ancillary services needed to serve its customers from its own generating plants, as well as through contracts with energy producers and sellers. California law and CPUC decisions allow SCE to recover through the rates it is allowed to charge its customers reasonable procurement costs incurred in compliance with an approved procurement plan. Nonetheless, SCE's cash flows remain subject to volatility resulting from its procurement activities, including exposure to commodity price and counterparty credit risks. In addition, SCE is subject to the risks of unfavorable or untimely CPUC decisions about the compliance of procurement activities with SCE's procurement plan and the reasonableness of certain procurement-related costs. SCE may not be able to hedge its risk for commodities on economic terms or fully recover the costs of hedges through the rates it is allowed to charge its customers, which could adversely affect SCE's liquidity and results of operations. See "SCE: Market Risk Exposures" in the MD&A. Operating Risks SCE's financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if it is unable to successfully manage the risks inherent in operating and improving its facilities. SCE is engaged in one of the largest infrastructure investment programs in its history, which involves multiple large-scale projects in multiple locations. This substantial increase in activity from SCE's historical levels elevates the operational risks and the need for superior execution in its activities. SCE's financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if it is unable to successfully manage these risks as well as the risks inherent in operating and improving its facilities, the operation of which can be hazardous. SCE's inherent operating risks include such matters as the risks of human performance, workforce capabilities, system limitations and degradation, failure or breaches of critical 26 Table of Contents information technology systems and interruptions in necessary supplies. See "SCE: Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Investment Plan" in the MD&A. There are inherent risks associated with operating nuclear power generating facilities. Continued NRC scrutiny of regulatory and performance issues at San Onofre may result in additional corrective actions that will increase operations and maintenance costs or require additional capital expenditures. As discussed in "Item 1. Business—Southern California Edison Company—Regulation—Nuclear Power Plant Regulation," the NRC is conducting additional inspections and public meetings to assess the corrective actions taken at San Onofre in connection with various regulatory and performance issues. This scrutiny may result in SCE being required to take additional corrective actions and incur increased operations and maintenance expenses or new capital expenditures. If SCE is unable to take effective corrective actions, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon the NRC's assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Existing insurance and ratemaking arrangements may not protect SCE fully against losses from a nuclear incident. Federal law limits public liability claims from a nuclear incident to the amount of available financial protection which is currently approximately $12.6 billion. SCE and other owners of the San Onofre and Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Stations have purchased the maximum private primary insurance available of $375 million per site. If nuclear incident liability claims were to exceed $375 million, the remaining amount would be made up from contributions of approximately $12.2 billion made by all of the nuclear facility owners in the U.S., up to an aggregate total of $12.6 billion. There is no assurance that the CPUC would allow SCE to recover the required contribution made in the case of a nuclear incident claim(s) that exceeded $375 million. If this public liability limit of $12.6 billion is insufficient, federal law contemplates that additional funds may be appropriated by Congress. There can be no assurance of SCE's ability to recover uninsured costs in the event the additional federal appropriations are insufficient. Spent fuel storage capacity could be insufficient to permit long-term operation of SCE's nuclear plants. The U.S. Department of Energy has defaulted on its obligation to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel from commercial nuclear industry participants by January 31, 1998. If SCE or the operator of Palo Verde were unable to arrange and maintain sufficient capacity for interim spent-fuel storage now or in the future, it could hinder the operation of the plants and impair the value of SCE's ownership interests until storage could be obtained, each of which may have a material adverse effect on SCE. SCE's insurance coverage for wildfires arising from its ordinary operations may not be sufficient and Edison International may not be able to obtain sufficient insurance on SCE's behalf for such occurrences. Edison International has been experiencing increased costs and difficulties in obtaining insurance coverage for wildfires that could arise from SCE's ordinary operations. In addition, the insurance Edison International has obtained on SCE's behalf for wildfire liabilities may not be sufficient. Uninsured losses and increases in the cost of insurance may not be recoverable in customer rates. A loss which is not fully insured or cannot be recovered in customer rates could materially and adversely affect Edison International's and SCE's financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, insurance for wildfire liabilities may not continue to be available at all or at rates or on terms similar to those presently available to Edison International. See "Item 8. Edison International Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 10. Regulatory and Environmental Developments." Financing Risks As a capital intensive company, SCE relies on access to the capital markets. If SCE were unable to access capital markets or the cost of capital was to substantially increase, its liquidity and operations would be adversely affected. SCE regularly accesses capital markets to finance its activities and is expected to do so by its regulators as part of its obligation to serve as a regulated utility. SCE's needs for capital for its ongoing infrastructure investment program are substantial. SCE's ability to arrange financing as well as its ability to refinance debt 27 Table of Contents and make scheduled payments of principal and interest are dependent on numerous factors, including SCE's levels of indebtedness, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings, its financial performance, liquidity and cash flow, and other market conditions. SCE's failure to obtain additional capital from time to time would have a material adverse effect on SCE's liquidity and operations. See "SCE: Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Investment Plan" and "SCE: Liquidity and Capital Resources—Historical Segment Cash Flows" in the MD&A. RISKS RELATING TO EMG Liquidity Risks EME and its subsidiaries have significant cash requirements and limited sources of capital. At December 31, 2010, EME had corporate cash and cash equivalents of $615 million and $484 million of available borrowing capacity under its $564 million credit facility maturing in June 2012 and Midwest Generation had cash and cash equivalents of $295 million and $497 million of available borrowing capacity under its $500 million credit facility maturing in June 2012. As of December 31, 2010, EME's consolidated debt was approximately $4.5 billion. EME's subsidiaries had $2.9 billion of long-term, power plant lease obligations that are due over a period ranging up to 24 years. Compliance with current and forthcoming environmental requirements will add to EME's near-term liquidity needs. EME's and Midwest Generation's below-investment grade credit status may limit their ability to extend or replace credit facilities, including those maturing in 2012, should they choose to do so, and the terms and conditions of any refinancing could be substantially less favorable than those in the current credit facilities, depending on market conditions. In the case of a further downgrade, EME expects that these negative effects would become more pronounced. If EME's credit facilities are not extended or replaced, or if cash flow and other means for assuring liquidity are unavailable or insufficient, EME may be unable to complete environmental improvements at its coal plants (which in turn could lead to unit shutdowns) or to provide credit support for contracts for power and fuel related to merchant activities. The terms of EME's and its subsidiaries' debt instruments may restrict EME's subsidiaries ability to sell assets or incur secured indebtedness, and EME's subsidiaries' debt instruments may limit EME's ability to seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance debt to satisfy liquidity needs. For further discussion of EME's liquidity needs, see "EMG: Liquidity and Capital Resources" in the MD&A. EME depends upon tax-allocation payments from Edison International to meet its obligations. EME receives these payments only if, and only to the extent that, Edison International is able to utilize tax losses and credits generated by EME. EME receives tax-allocation payments for tax losses when and to the extent that the consolidated Edison International group generates sufficient taxable income to be able to utilize EME's consolidated tax losses and credits in the consolidated income tax returns for Edison International and its subsidiaries. The timing of certain tax-allocation payments was delayed in 2010 as a result of the Small Business Jobs Act and the 2010 Tax Relief Act, because Edison International was not able to fully utilize EME's consolidated tax losses and credits. Tax-allocation payments to EME may be further delayed until tax benefits are fully utilized by Edison International on a consolidated basis, which may take several years as a result of these new tax laws. See "Edison International Overview—Bonus Depreciation Impact on Edison International" in the MD&A for further discussion. These arrangements are subject to the terms of the tax-allocation and payment agreements among Edison International, EME and other Edison International subsidiaries. The agreements under which EME receives tax-allocation payments may be terminated by the immediate parent company at any time, by notice given before the first day of the first year with respect to which the termination is to be effective. However, termination does not relieve any party of any obligations with respect to any tax year beginning prior to the notice. See "EMG: Liquidity and Capital Resources—Intercompany Tax-Allocation Agreement" in the MD&A. 28 Table of Contents Regulatory and Environmental Risks The controls imposed on the Midwest Generation plants as a result of the Combined Pollutant Standard may require material expenditures or unit shutdowns. All of Midwest Generation's Illinois coal-fired electric generating units are subject to the CPS. Capital expenditures relating to controls contemplated by the CPS are expected to be significant and could make some units uneconomic to maintain or operate. Midwest Generation may ultimately decide to comply with CPS requirements by shutting down units rather than making improvements. Unit shutdowns could have an adverse effect on EMG's business, results of operation and financial condition. For more information about the CPS requirements and Midwest Generation's plans for compliance, see "Item 1. Business—Environmental Matters and Regulations—Air Quality—Nitrogen Oxide and Sulfur Dioxide—Illinois." Market Risks EMG has substantial interests in merchant energy power plants which are subject to market risks related to wholesale energy prices because they operate without long-term power purchase agreements. Wholesale energy prices have substantially declined in recent years. EMG's merchant energy power plants do not have long-term power purchase agreements. Because the output of these power plants is not committed to be sold under long-term contracts, these projects are subject to market forces which determine the amount and price of energy, capacity and ancillary services sold from the power plants. Unlike most other commodities, electric power can only be stored on a very limited basis and generally must be produced when it is to be used. As a result, the wholesale power markets are subject to significant and unpredictable price fluctuations over relatively short periods of time. Due to the volume of sales into PJM from the coal plants, EMG has concentrated exposure to market conditions and fluctuations in PJM. Prices for power have declined significantly in recent years as a result of increased use of demand response technology, changes in final demand for power during the economic slowdown, and technological developments that have permitted the exploitation of natural gas shale reserves in a way that has resulted in substantial declines in market prices for natural gas which supplies power plants that compete with EMG's coal plants. Market prices of energy, capacity and ancillary services sold from these power plants are influenced by multiple factors beyond EMG's control, and thus there is considerable uncertainty whether or when current depressed prices will recover or whether EMG can effectively hedge the risks involved on economic terms. EMG's hedging activities may not cover the entire exposure of its assets or positions to market price volatility, and the level of coverage will vary over time. The effectiveness of EMG's hedging activities may depend on the amount of credit available to post collateral, either in support of performance guarantees or as cash margin, and liquidity requirements may be greater than EMG anticipates or will be able to meet. EMG cannot provide assurance that its hedging strategies will successfully mitigate market risks. For more detail on these matters, see "EMG: Market Risk Exposures—Commodity Price Risk" in the MD&A. EMG's financial results can be affected by changes in prices, transportation cost, and supply interruptions related to fuel, sorbents, and other commodities used for power generation and emission controls. In addition to volatile power prices, EMG's business is subject to changes in the cost of fuel, sorbents, and other commodities used for power generation and emission controls, and in the cost of transportation. These costs can be volatile and are influenced by many factors outside of EMG's control. The price at which EMG can sell its energy may not rise or fall at the same rate as a corresponding rise or fall in commodity costs. Operations at the coal plants are dependent upon the availability and affordability of coal which is available only from a limited number of suppliers and which, in the case of Midwest Generation, is transported by rail under a long-term transportation contract that will expire in 2011. All of these factors may have an adverse effect on EMG's financial condition and results of operations. See "EMG: Market Risk Exposures—Commodity Price Risk" in the MD&A. Competition could adversely affect EMG's business EMG has numerous competitors in all aspects of its business some of whom may have greater liquidity, greater access to credit and other financial resources, lower cost structures, greater ability to withstand 29 Table of Contents losses, larger staffs or more experience than EMG. Multiple participants in the wholesale markets, including many regulated utilities, have a lower cost of capital than most merchant generators and often are able to recover fixed costs through rate base mechanisms, allowing them to build, buy and upgrade generation assets without relying exclusively on market clearing prices to recover their investments. These factors could affect EMG's ability to compete effectively in the markets in which those entities operate. Newer plants owned by EMG's competitors are often more efficient than EMG's facilities and may also have lower costs of operation. Over time, some of EMG's merchant facilities may become obsolete in their markets, or be unable to compete with such plants. Operating Risks EMG's development projects may not be successful. EMG's development activities are subject to risks including, without limitation, risks related to the identification of project sites, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals and the negotiation of project agreements, including power purchase agreements. EMG may be required to spend significant amounts for preliminary engineering, permitting, fuel supply, resource exploration, legal and other expenses before it can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built. As a result of these risks, EMG may not be successful in developing new projects, or the timing of such development may be delayed beyond the date that equipment is ready for installation, in which case EMG may be required to incur material equipment and/or material costs with no deployment plan at delivery. Projects under development may also be adversely affected by delays in construction or equipment deliveries, commissioning delays or performance issues, and agreements with off-takers may contain damages and termination provisions related to failures to meet specified milestones. Due to competing capital needs, EMG's further development of its renewable business will depend upon the availability of third-party equity capital. EMG's projects may be affected by general operating risks and hazards customary in the power generation industry. EMG may not have adequate insurance to cover all these hazards. The operation of power generation facilities is a potentially dangerous activity that involves many operating risks, including transmission disruptions and constraints, equipment failures or shortages, and system limitations, degradation and interruption. EMG's operations are also subject to risks of human performance and workforce capabilities. There can be no assurance that EMG's insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances or protect against all hazards to which EMG may be subject, or that insurance coverage will continue to be available on terms similar to those presently available, or at all. EMG has a number of older facilities with potentially higher risks of failure or outage than an average plant, and EMG has in the past experienced serial defects in certain models of wind turbines deployed at its wind projects. Uncertainties in EMG's future operations could affect its ability to attract and retain skilled people. Uncertainties concerning EMG's future operations could affect its ability to attract and retain qualified personnel with experience in the energy industry. If EMG is unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, its results of operations will be negatively affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 