Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 24 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 24 PART II 25 Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 28 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk 37 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 38 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 61 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 61 Item 9B. Other Information 61 PART III 62 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 62 Item 11. Executive Compensation 62 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 62 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 62 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 62 PART IV 63 Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 63 iii Table of Contents PART I This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains or incorporates by reference certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. For this purpose, any statements contained in or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements, including but not limited to projections of revenues, results of operations, financial condition or other financial items; any statements of plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations; any statements regarding proposed new products, services or developments; any statements regarding future economic conditions, prospects or performance; statements of belief and any statement or assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. In addition, we or others on our behalf may make forward-looking statements from time to time in oral presentations, including telephone conferences and/or Web casts open to the public, in press releases or reports, on our Internet Web site or otherwise. We try to identify forward-looking statements in this report and elsewhere by using words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” “intend,” “potential,” “continue” or the negative of these or similar terms. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made and by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including the items discussed in greater detail below under the caption “Risk Factors.” These risks and uncertainties are not exclusive and further information concerning the company and our business, including factors that potentially could materially affect our financial results or condition, may emerge from time to time, including factors that we may consider immaterial or do not anticipate at this time. We wish to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement and to recognize that forward-looking statements are predictions of future results, which may not occur as anticipated. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect actual results or changes in factors or assumptions affecting such forward-looking statements. We advise you, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K that we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Our Business Overview Select Comfort Corporation was founded as a Minnesota-based corporation in 1987 by an entrepreneur who developed and manufactured adjustable firmness mattresses after considering other alternatives such as innerspring and water. We have evolved from a specialty, niché direct marketer to a nationwide multi-channel business with fiscal 2006 net sales of $806 million. Our principal business is to develop, manufacture, market and support premium quality, adjustable-firmness beds and other sleep-related accessory products. We have a mission-driven culture, with passionate employees and customers. Our mission is to improve people’s lives through better sleep. Our goal is to open a consumer’s mind to take control of their sleep naturally, with a bed that adjusts with comfort and support, rather than having the consumer adjust to the bed. In 1998, Select Comfort became a publicly-traded company listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (NASDAQ Global Select Market) under the symbol “SCSS.” When used herein, the terms “Select Comfort,” “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Select Comfort Corporation, including consolidated subsidiaries. Competitive Strengths Differentiated, Superior Product Our proprietary Sleep Number® bed was designed through sleep research. Clinical research has shown that people who sleep on a Sleep Number bed fall asleep faster and experience deeper sleep with fewer disturbances than those sleeping on a traditional innerspring mattress. The proprietary air-chamber technology of our Sleep Number bed allows adjustable firmness of the mattress at the touch of a button, independently adjustable on either side to meet each partners’ individual preference. Our bed’s sleep surface provides better sleep quality and greater relief of back pain in comparison with traditional innerspring mattress products. 2 Table of Contents Distinctive Brand In 2001, we created the Sleep Number brand. This branding strategy allows our advertising and consumer communication to focus on our bed’s distinguishing and proprietary feature, adjustable firmness and support for personalized comfort, as represented by the digital Sleep Number display on the bed’s hand-held remote control, with a brand message hierarchy as follows: • A Sleep Number represents an ideal level of mattress comfort, firmness and support; • Everybody has a Sleep Number™; • Knowing your Sleep Number is the Key to a Perfect Night’s Sleep™; and • You can only find your Sleep Number on a Sleep Number Bed by Select Comfort™. Controlled Selling Environment Over 90% of our sales are generated through our direct-to-consumer sales channels. Our nationwide chain of retail stores provides a unique mattress shopping experience and offer a relaxed environment designed to provide education on the importance of sleep and the products that best fit consumers’ needs. Controlling the selling process enables us to ensure that the unique benefits of our products are effectively communicated to consumers. Our multiple touch-points of service, including sales, delivery and post-sale service, provide several opportunities to communicate with our customers, reinforcing the sale and enabling us to understand and respond quickly to consumer trends and preferences. Integrated Business Process We are a vertically-integrated business from production through sales, delivery and customer service, which allows us to control quality, cost, price and presentation. The modular design of our Sleep Number bed allows a just-in-time, build-to-order system that enables our retail stores to be positioned as showrooms, requiring minimal inventory in our stores and in our plants enabling us to maximize cash flow and operate with a minimal working capital business model. Growth Strategy In 2005, we ranked as the 6th largest mattress manufacturer according to the June 19, 2006 edition of Furniture/Today, with a 5% market share of industry revenue and 2% market share of industry units. We ranked as the leading U.S. bedding retailer, according to the Top-25 Bedding Retailers report in the August 14, 2006 edition of Furniture/Today. Our vision is to be the leading brand in the bedding industry. Building Brand Awareness Our most significant growth driver has been building brand awareness. With approximately 16% unaided brand awareness in the U.S., we have significant opportunity for domestic growth through increasing awareness of the Sleep Number and Select Comfort brands. The Sleep Number brand has been integrated into all of our sales channels and throughout our internal and external communication programs. We utilize a media mix that includes television, radio and print advertising in support of our Sleep Number marketing campaign with increasing use of Internet advertising and paid search in our media mix. We also sell to commercial markets which increases the awareness of our brand through media exposure, trial, sales and word-of-mouth. These commercial markets include the QVC television shopping channel, the luxury motor home market and Radisson Hotels and Resorts® in the U.S., Canada and the Caribbean. Expanding Distribution Over the long-term, we expect to operate between 600 and 650 company-owned stores in the U.S. with annual square footage growth increasing by 7% to 10% per year. We supplement our company-controlled distribution channels with sales through a limited number of leading home furnishings and specialty bedding retailers. Our retail partner program is expected to grow to over 1,000 U.S. partner doors over a multi-year period. At that level of distribution, we expect our retail partner program to represent as much as 15% of our net sales mix. 3 Table of Contents In 2005, we expanded our distribution network outside the U.S. with a retail partner relationship in Canada. In 2006, the Canadian retail partner relationship grew to 119 doors. We believe opportunities exist to expand our products and brands throughout the world and have built a team to begin pursuing international expansion. Accelerating Innovation Our goal is to continue to lead the industry in innovative sleep products. We have historically introduced new features and benefits to our Sleep Number beds every two to three years, through a pipeline of research and development (“R&D”) activities. In 2006, we ramped-up our investment in R&D with the goal of accelerating new and innovative product introductions. We plan to increase our research and development investment again in 2007 by approximately 50%. The introduction of new products and features is expected to benefit our results of operations beginning in 2008. Leveraging our Infrastructure We believe we are well positioned to sustain long-term profitable growth. Our vertically-integrated business model provides multiple sources for efficiency and leverage. Sustaining such performance over a multi-year period is based on expected scale efficiencies (fixed cost utilization) and cost containment initiatives. We also have an ongoing focus on productivity gains through a variety of programs, including the implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system in the first half of 2008, expansion of our pilot hub and spoke network, automation of home delivery services, marketing and sales initiatives, and a Six Sigma initiative to improve product and service quality. Our Products Mattress Sets We offer five different Sleep Number bed models through our company-owned channels, including the Sleep Number 3000, 4000, 5000, 7000 and 9000. Each bed model comes in standard mattress sizes, ranging from twin to king, as well as some specialty mattress sizes. Our bed models vary in features, functionality and price. As you move up the product line, the Sleep Number bed models offer enhanced features and benefits, including higher-quality fabrics and cover filling, additional cushion and padding, higher overall mattress profiles, quieter Firmness Control Systems with additional functions, and wireless remote controls as a standard feature. The contouring support of our Sleep Number beds are optimized when used with our specially designed, proprietary foundation. This durable foundation, used in place of a box spring, is a modular design that can be disassembled and easily moved through staircases, hallways and other tight spaces. Our mattress price points range from approximately $900 for the entry-level Sleep Number 3000 queen-size set (mattress and foundation) to $4,000 for the luxurious Sleep Number 9000 queen-size set. Our most popular model is the 5000 queen-size set and sells for approximately $1,900. These prices are subject to periodic promotional offerings. Our unique product design allows us to ship our beds in a modular format to customers throughout the U.S. by United Parcel Service (“UPS”). For an additional fee, customers can take advantage of our home delivery service, which includes bed assembly and optional mattress removal services. We also manufacture our Sleep Number beds for distribution through our retail partners. Our retail partner beds have different model numbers or names, but have similar features and benefits, and sell for similar prices. Each of our Sleep Number beds come with a 30 night in-home trial and better night’s sleep guarantee, which allows customers 30 nights at home to make sure they are 100% comfortable with the bed. The customer is responsible for the return shipping costs. Independent durability testing has shown our Sleep Number beds to withstand more than 20 years of simulated use, and each of our Sleep Number beds is backed by our 20-year limited warranty. Accessories In addition to our mattresses and foundations, we offer a line of accessory bedding products, including specialty pillows, mattress pads, comforters, sheets, bed foundations and leg options. The specialty pillows, available in a variety of sizes, materials and firmness levels, are designed to provide personalized comfort and better quality sleep for stomach, back or side sleepers. We also market our Personal Warmth Collection™, a group of comforters and blankets designed to be twice as warm on one half of the bed as the other, accommodating varying warmth preferences among couples. 4 Table of Contents Other Products and Services In 2003, we completed the roll-out of our Precision Comfort adjustable foundation to all of our company-owned retail stores. The adjustable foundation enables consumers to raise the head or foot of the bed, and to experience the comfort of massage, using a handheld remote control. In 2004, we introduced the Sleep Number SofaBed line into a select number of our stores. The SofaBed is now available in 180 stores in 75 U.S. markets. The Sleep Number SofaBed features a queen-size Sleep Number mattress inside a beautifully appointed sofa surround, which is available in a variety of fabrics or leather options. Sales Distribution Unlike traditional bedding manufacturers, which primarily sell through third-party retailers, over 90% of our sales are through one of three company-controlled distribution channels – Retail, Direct Marketing and e-commerce. These channels enable us to control the selling process to ensure that the unique benefits of our products are effectively presented to consumers. Our direct-to-consumer business model enables us to understand and respond quickly to consumer trends and preferences. Our retail stores accounted for 76% of our sales in 2006. Average net sales per company-owned store were $1,493,000 in 2006 versus $626,000 in 2001, with average sales per square foot of $1,244 in 2006 versus $666 in 2001. New stores are expected to average in excess of $900,000 in net sales in the first year of operations. In 2006, 81% of our stores generated net sales of over $1,000,000. Our direct marketing call center and e-commerce Web site provide national sales coverage, including markets not yet served by one of our retail stores and accounted for 15% of our sales in 2006. In addition, these channels provide a cost-effective way to market our products, are a source of information on our products and refer customers to our stores if there is one near the customer. Beginning in 2002, we supplemented our sales through semi-exclusive relationships with selected home furnishing retailers and specialty bedding retailers. Currently, this program includes 11 home furnishing retailers and specialty bedding retailers in the U.S. and Canada. In 2006, we aggressively expanded our retail partner program to 822 doors, up from 353 doors at the end of 2005. Each retail partner serves a unique geographic market, which enables us to increase sales and leverage our media spending to accelerate brand awareness. Marketing and Advertising Awareness among the broad consumer audience of our brand, product benefits and store locations has been our most significant opportunity for growth. The Sleep Number advertising campaign was introduced early in 2001 to support our retail stores in selected markets through our first comprehensive multi-media advertising campaign using prime-time TV, national cable television, infomercials, drive-time radio and newspaper advertisements. We have expanded the comprehensive local multi-media Sleep Number advertising campaign from the initial eight markets in 2001 to 37 markets in 2006. In addition, our successful radio personality endorsement advertising program now totals 145 radio personalities in approximately 126 retail store markets. Since 2001, the Sleep Number brand positioning has been integrated into our marketing messages across all of our distribution channels, advertising vehicles and media types. We have increased our 1-800 advertising on national cable TV as an economical means of increasing brand awareness for our Sleep Number bed. Through our dedicated call center, we are able to provide the inquiring consumer more information or send a video and brochure. In 2006, our total media spending was approximately $105 million. Owners of Sleep Number beds purchased through company-controlled channels are members of our Comfort Club, our customer loyalty program designed primarily to reward our owners for recommending our beds. Each time a referred customer purchases a bed, the referring Comfort Club member receives a $50 coupon for purchase of our products, with increasing benefits for multiple referrals. In 2006, approximately 45,000 new customers bought beds after receiving referrals from our Comfort Club members, and existing owners bought approximately 35,000 additional beds. Qualified customers are offered revolving credit to finance purchases through a private-label consumer credit facility provided by GE Money Bank. Approximately 40% of our net sales during 2006 were financed by GE Money Bank or its predecessor, Mill Creek Bank. In 2005, we entered into an amended and restated agreement with GE Money Bank that 5 Table of Contents extends this consumer credit arrangement through February 15, 2011, subject to earlier termination upon certain events and subject to automatic extensions. Under the terms of our agreement, GE Money Bank sets the minimum acceptable credit ratings, the interest rates, fees and all other terms and conditions of the customer accounts, including collection policies and procedures, and is the owner of the accounts. In connection with all purchases financed under these arrangements, GE Money Bank pays us an amount equal to the total amount of such purchases, net of promotional related discounts, upon delivery to the customer. Consumers that do not qualify for credit under our agreement with GE Money Bank may apply for credit under a secondary program maintained by the company through another provider. Operations Manufacturing and Distribution We have two manufacturing plants, one located in Irmo, South Carolina, and the other in Salt Lake City, Utah, which cost effectively distribute products in the U.S. and Canada. The manufacturing operations in South Carolina and Utah consist of quilting and sewing of the fabric covers for our beds and final assembly and packaging of mattresses and foundations. In addition, our electrical Firmness Control Systems are assembled in our Utah plant. We manufacture beds on a just-in-time basis to fulfill orders rather than stocking inventory, which enables us to maintain lower levels of finished goods inventory and operate with limited regional warehousing. Orders are currently shipped from our manufacturing facilities via UPS or through our company-controlled home delivery, assembly and mattress removal service, typically within 48 hours following order receipt. Orders are usually received by the customer within five to 14 days from the date of order. Suppliers We obtain all of the raw materials and components used to produce our beds from outside sources. A number of components, including our proprietary air chambers, our proprietary blow-molded foundations, and various components for our Firmness Control Systems, as well as fabrics and zippers, are sourced from suppliers who serve as our sole source of supply for these components. Beginning in 2005, we initiated work on dual and alternate sourcing, successfully introducing a second source for printed circuit boards and certain foam and fiber components. We will continue working toward dual sourcing on targeted components. Our proprietary air chambers are produced to our specifications by one Eastern European supplier, which has been our sole source of supply of air chambers since 1994. Our agreement with this supplier runs through September 2011 and is thereafter subject to automatic annual renewal unless either party gives 365 days’ notice of its intention not to renew the agreement. We expect to continue this supplier relationship for the foreseeable future. Our proprietary blow-molded foundations are produced to our specifications by one domestic supplier under an agreement that expires in December 2009. We expect to continue this supplier relationship for the foreseeable future. All of the suppliers that produce unique or proprietary products for us have in place either contingency or disaster recovery plans or redundant production capabilities in other locations in order to safeguard against any unforeseen disasters. We review these plans and sites on a regular basis to ensure the supplier’s ability to maintain uninterrupted supply of materials and components. Home Delivery Service Select Comfort’s home delivery, assembly and mattress removal service has contributed to improving the overall customer experience. Our home delivery technicians are Sleep Number bed owners who can articulate the benefits of the bed, reinforcing the sales process and ensuring satisfied customers. Approximately 60% of beds sold through our company-owned retail stores in 2006 were delivered by our full-service home delivery team. In 2003, we expanded the availability of our company-controlled delivery, assembly and removal services to all of our retail markets. In 2006, we made investments in home delivery systems and personnel to enable continued improvement and efficiency in our home delivery service. We plan to continue those investments and improvements in 2007 to help meet our expanded sales goals. 6 Table of Contents Customer Service We maintain an in-house customer service department staffed by customer service representatives who receive extensive training in sleep technology and all aspects of our products and operations. Our customer service representatives field customer calls and also interact with each of our retail stores to address customer questions and concerns. Our customer service team is part of our total quality process, facilitating early identification of emerging trends or issues. They coordinate with engineering and manufacturing to implement immediate solutions and provide inputs for long-term improvements to product design. Research and Development Our research and development team continuously seeks to improve product performance and benefits based on sleep science. Through customer surveys and consumer focus groups, we seek feedback on a regular basis to help enhance our products. Since the introduction of our first bed, we have continued to improve and expand our product line, including a quieter Firmness Control System, remote controls with digital settings, more luxurious fabrics and covers, new generations of foams and foundation systems, and enhanced border walls. Our research and development expenses were $4.7 million in 2006, $2.2 million in 2005, and $1.9 million in 2004. Information Systems We use information technology systems to analyze and manage our business, to reduce operating costs and to enhance our customers’ experience. Our major systems include an in-store point of sale system, a retail portal system, in-bound and out-bound telecommunications systems for direct marketing and customer service, e-commerce systems, retail partner support systems, a data warehouse system and an enterprise resource planning system. These systems are comprised of both packaged applications licensed from market leaders and internally developed programs. Our production data center and e-commerce Web site are hosted at an outsourced facility that provides top-tier, fully-secured data center space. We maintain a disaster recovery plan that is tested annually. We have recently undertaken plans to implement an integrated suite of SAP®-based applications, including enterprise resources planning, customer relationship management, supply chain management, product lifecycle management, supplier relationship management, human capital management, strategic enterprise management, business intelligence and enterprise portal systems to replace many of our current systems. We believe this SAP-based IT architecture, along with best-practices-based processes and greater utilization of off-the-shelf, packaged solutions, will provide greater flexibility and functionality for our growing and evolving business model and be less expensive to maintain over the long-term. We currently expect the SAP implementation to be completed in the first half of fiscal year 2008. Intellectual Property We hold various U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications regarding certain elements of the design and function of our products, including air control systems, remote control systems, air chamber features, border wall and corner piece systems, foundation systems, and features related to sofa sleepers with air mattresses, as well as other technology. We have 24 issued U.S. patents, expiring at various dates between December 2007 and June 2022, and five U.S. patent applications pending. We also hold 19 foreign patents and 10 foreign patent applications pending. Notwithstanding these patents and patent applications, we cannot ensure that these patent rights will provide substantial protection or that others will not be able to develop products that are similar to or competitive with our products. To our knowledge, no third party has asserted a claim against us alleging that any element of our product infringes or otherwise violates any intellectual property rights of any third party. “Select Comfort” and “Sleep Number” are trademarks registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. We have a number of other registered trademarks including our “Select Comfort” logo with the double arrow design, “Select Comfort Creator of the Sleep Number Bed,” “What’s Your Sleep Number?,” “Precision Comfort,” “The Sleep Number Bed by Select Comfort” (logo), “The Sleep Number Store by Select Comfort” (logo), “Comfort Club” and “Sleep Better on Air” and “LuxLayer.” U.S. applications are pending for a number of other marks. Several of these trademarks have been registered, or are the subject of pending applications, in various foreign countries. Each federally registered mark is renewable indefinitely as long as the mark remains in use. We are not aware of any material claims of infringement or other challenges asserted against our right to use these marks. 7 Table of Contents Industry and Competition The U.S. bedding manufacturing industry is a mature and stable industry. According to the 2005 Annual Report by the International Sleep Products Association (ISPA), industry wholesale shipments of mattresses and foundations were estimated to be $6.4 billion in 2005, compared to $5.8 billion in 2004. We estimate that traditional innerspring mattresses represent approximately 73% of total U.S. bedding sales. The U.S. bedding retail industry is highly fragmented. According to the Top-25 Bedding Retailers report in the August 1, 2005 edition of Furniture/Today, the U.S. bedding retail industry was estimated to be $10.7 billion in 2004, with the top-25 retailers accounting for approximately 36% of total sales. We estimate that the U.S. bedding retail industry grew to nearly $12.0 billion in 2005 and more than $12.5 billion in 2006. Furniture/Today has ranked Select Comfort as the largest U.S. bedding retailer for six consecutive years. Since 1984, the industry has consistently demonstrated growth on a dollar basis, with a 0.3% decline in 2001 being the only exception. Over the 5-year, 10-year and 20-year periods ended 2005, the value of U.S. wholesale bedding shipments increased at compound annual growth rates of 6.8%, 7.2% and 6.8%, respectively. We believe that industry unit growth has been primarily driven by population growth, and an increase in the number of homes (including secondary residences) and the increased size of homes. We believe growth in average wholesale prices resulted from a shift to both larger and higher quality beds, which are typically more expensive. The bedding industry is highly competitive. Participants in the bedding industry compete primarily on price, quality, brand name recognition, product availability and product performance, including the perceived levels of comfort and support provided by a mattress. There is a high degree of concentration among the four largest manufacturers of innerspring bedding with nationally recognized brand names, including Sealy, which also owns the Stearns & Foster brand name, Serta, Simmons and Spring Air. Numerous other manufacturers, primarily operating on a regional or niche basis, serve the balance of the bedding market. Simmons and Sealy, as well as a number of smaller manufacturers, have offered air-bed products in recent years. Tempur-Pedic International, Inc., and a number of other mattress manufacturers, offer foam mattress products. Governmental Regulation and Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to federal and local consumer protection and other regulations relating to the bedding industry. These regulations vary among the jurisdictions in which we do business. The regulations generally impose requirements as to the proper labeling of bedding merchandise, restrictions regarding the identification of merchandise as “new” or otherwise, controls as to hygiene and other aspects of product handling and sale, and penalties for violations. Our direct marketing and e-commerce operations are or may become subject to various adopted or proposed federal and state “do not call” and “do not mail” list requirements. The federal Consumer Product Safety Commission and various other regulatory agencies have been considering new rules relating to fire retardancy standards for the bedding industry. Effective December 31, 2005, the State of California adopted a new fire retardancy standard applicable to bedding products sold in California for general consumer residential use. In February 2006, the Consumer Product Safety Commission announced the adoption of a federal open flame fire retardancy standard similar to the California standard, which will be effective nationwide in July 2007. We are developing product modifications to meet the new standard, which will add costs to the modified products and require more complicated manufacturing processes, potentially reducing our manufacturing capacity. A portion of our net sales consists of refurbished products that are assembled in part from components returned to us from customers. These refurbished products must be properly labeled and marketed as refurbished products under applicable laws. Our sales of refurbished products are limited to approximately 24 states, as the balance of the states does not allow the sale of refurbished bedding products. We are subject to national and local laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety, pollution and environmental protection. We will also be subject to similar laws in foreign jurisdictions as we further expand distribution of our products internationally. Our retail pricing policies and practices are subject to antitrust regulations in the U.S., Canada and other jurisdictions where we may sell our products in the future. We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with each of these governmental regulations. 8 Table of Contents We are not aware of any national or local provisions which have been enacted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, that have materially affected, or will materially affect our net income or competitive position, or will result in material capital expenditures. During fiscal 2006, there were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities and no such material expenditures are anticipated. Customers No single customer accounts for 10% or more of our total sales. Therefore, the loss of any one customer would not have a material impact on our business. Seasonality Our business is subject to some seasonal influences, with typically lower sales in the second quarter and higher sales during the fourth quarter holiday season due to greater mall traffic. Working Capital Our investment to open a new store is approximately $250,000, including inventory. We target new stores to be cash flow positive within 12 months with a payback of the initial cash investment in less than 24 months. Our stores break even on a four-wall cash flow basis with approximately $600,000 of annual net sales. Our four-wall cash flow is calculated as gross profit generated from store sales less store expenses, without deduction of depreciation expenses. The component nature of our products allows our stores to serve as product showrooms for our Sleep Number beds. This aspect of our business model allows us to maintain low inventory levels which enables us to operate with minimal working capital. We have historically generated sufficient cash flows to self-fund our growth through an accelerated cash-conversion cycle. In addition, our $100 million bank revolving line of credit is available for additional working capital needs or investment opportunities. Employees At December 30, 2006, we employed 3,053 persons, including 1,601 retail sales and support employees, 199 direct marketing and customer service employees, 954 manufacturing and logistics employees, and 299 management and administrative employees. Approximately 200 of our employees were employed on a part-time basis at December 30, 2006. Except for managerial employees and professional support staff, all of our employees are paid on an hourly basis plus commissions for sales associates. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. 9 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant William R. McLaughlin, 50, joined our company in March 2000 as President and Chief Executive Officer. In May 2004, Mr. McLaughlin was also elected to the position of Chairman of our Board of Directors. From December 1988 to March 2000, Mr. McLaughlin served as an executive of PepsiCo Foods International, Inc., a snack food company and subsidiary of PepsiCo, Inc., in various capacities, including from September 1996 to March 2000 as President of Frito-Lay Europe, Middle East and Africa, and from June 1993 to June 1996 as President of Grupo Gamesa, S.A. de C.V., a cookie and flour company based in Mexico. J. Douglas Collier, 40, joined our company as Chief Marketing Officer and Senior Vice President, Marketing in July 2005. From 2002 to June 2005, Mr. Collier held leadership positions with La-Z-Boy Incorporated, most recently as Chief Marketing Officer and Vice President, Marketing and Furniture Galleries Development. From 2000 to 2001, Mr. Collier was the Senior Vice President, Marketing and Product Management for Iomega Corporation. From 1996 to 2000, he held various positions with NIBCO, Inc., including General Manager and Director of eBusiness and Marketing. From 1992 to 1996, Mr. Collier served in several capacities for Whirlpool Corporation, including as a Product Director for Whirlpool Europe and Director of Business Development and Process Improvement for Whirlpool North America. Prior to 1992, he held several positions with GE Canada (CAMCO). Mark A. Kimball, 48, has served as Senior Vice President, Legal, General Counsel and Secretary since August 2003. From July 2000 to August 2003, Mr. Kimball served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Legal, General Counsel and Secretary. From May 1999 to July 2000, Mr. Kimball served as our Senior Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary. For more than five years prior to joining us, Mr. Kimball was a partner in the law firm of Oppenheimer Wolff & Donnelly LLP practicing in the area of corporate finance. Ernest Park, 54, joined our company as Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer in May 2006. From November 2000 through March 2006, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer at Maytag Corporation. Mr. Park previously managed the global information technology function as Vice President and Chief Information Officer of a shared services organization at AlliedSignal, and later with Honeywell International, following AlliedSignal’s acquisition of Honeywell in 1999. He also served in various leadership capacities at Avnet Inc. from March 1980 through November 1996, culminating in his role as Corporate Vice President, Information Services Division. Scott F. Peterson, 47, has served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources since August 2003. From January 2002 to August 2003, Mr. Peterson served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources, for LifeTime Fitness, a proprietor of health and fitness clubs. From March 2000 through November 2001, he served as Chief People Officer for SimonDelivers.com, an internet-based grocery sales and delivery company. From 1990 through 2000, he served in a variety of capacities with The Pillsbury Company, a food manufacturer, most recently as Vice President, Human Resources, for the Bakeries and Foodservice Division. James C. Raabe, 46, has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 1999. From September 1997 to April 1999, Mr. Raabe served as our Controller. From May 1992 to September 1997, he served as Vice President – Finance of ValueRx, Inc., a pharmacy benefit management provider. Mr. Raabe held various positions with KPMG LLP from August 1982 to May 1992. Kathryn V. Roedel, 46, joined our company as Senior Vice President, Global Supply Chain in April 2005. From 1983 to 2005, she held leadership positions within two divisions of General Electric Company, in Sourcing, Manufacturing, Quality and Service. From 2003 to March 2005, Ms. Roedel served as the General Manager, Global Supply Chain Strategy for GE Medical Systems. Other key positions included General Manager, Global Quality and Six Sigma; Vice President – Technical Operations and Director/Vice President – Quality Programs for GE Clinical Services, a division of GE Medical Systems. Wendy L. Schoppert, 40, joined our company as Senior Vice President and General Manager – New Channel Development & Strategy in April 2005 and effective January 2007, became our Senior Vice President – International. From 2002 to March 2005, Ms. Schoppert led various departments within U.S. Bancorp Asset Management, most recently serving as Head of Private Asset Management and Marketing. From 1996 to 2000, she held several positions with America West Holdings Corporation, including Vice President of America West Vacations and head of the airline’s Reservations division. Prior to 1996, Ms. Schoppert held various finance-related positions at both Northwest Airlines and American Airlines. 10 Table of Contents Keith C. Spurgeon, 52, joined our company as Senior Vice President, Sales in February 2002. From September 2000 to February 2002, Mr. Spurgeon served as an independent business consultant. From 1996 to September 2000 he was Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Zany Brainy, Inc., a retailer of educational toys and books for children. Zany Brainy filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in May 2001. He served as Vice President-Asia/Australia at Toys “R” Us, Inc. from 1991 to 1996 after holding various management positions from 1986 to 1991. Mr. Spurgeon began his career at Jewel Food Stores. Available Information We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and its rules and regulations. The Exchange Act requires us to file reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Copies of our reports, proxy statements and other information can be read and copied at: SEC Public Reference Room 100 F Street NE Washington, D.C. 20549 Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a Web site that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. These materials may be obtained electronically by accessing the SEC’s home page at http://www.sec.gov. Our corporate Internet Web site is http://www.selectcomfort.com. Through a link to a third-party content provider, our corporate Web site provides free access to our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing with the SEC. These documents are posted on our Web site at www.selectcomfort.com — select the “About Select Comfort” link and then the “Investor Relations” link. The information contained on our Web site or connected to our Web site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this report. We also make available, free of charge on our Web site, the charters of the Audit Committee, Management Development and Compensation Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and Finance Committee as well as our Code of Business Conduct (including any amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of our Code of Business Conduct) adopted by our Board. These documents are posted on our Web site — select the “Investor Relations” link and then the “Corporate Governance” link. Copies of any of the above referenced information will also be made available, free of charge, upon written request to: Select Comfort Corporation Investor Relations Department 6105 Trenton Lane North Minneapolis, MN 55442 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We may not be able to sustain growth or profitability. Our net sales have grown in each of the last five fiscal years after two consecutive years of declining net sales. Our 22 most recent quarters have been profitable after eight consecutive quarters of losses. We may not be able to sustain growth or profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in future periods. Our future growth and profitability will depend upon a number of factors, including but not limited to: • Our ability to manage growth in the size and complexity of our business, which has placed, and will continue to place, significant strains on our management, operations, information systems and other resources; • The level of competition in the mattress industry and our ability to successfully identify and respond to emerging and competitive trends in the mattress industry; • The level of consumer acceptance of our products, new product offerings and brand image; • Our ability to continuously improve our products to offer new and enhanced consumer benefits, better quality and reduced costs; • The effectiveness of our marketing messages and the efficiency of our advertising expenditures and other marketing programs in building product and brand awareness, driving traffic to our points of sale and increasing sales; • Our ability to execute our retail store distribution strategy, including increasing sales and profitability through our existing stores, securing suitable and cost-effective locations for additional retail stores and cost-effectively closing under-performing store locations; • Our ability to hire, train, motivate and retain qualified retail store management and sales professionals; • Our ability to secure and retain wholesale accounts on a profitable basis and to profitably manage growth in wholesale distribution, including the impact on our retail stores and other company-controlled distribution channels; • The success of our program with Radisson Hotels and Resorts in achieving planned levels of placement of our beds with the hotels and resorts and in driving consumer awareness of our product and brand; • Our ability to cost-effectively expand our distribution internationally; • Our ability to cost-effectively implement information systems changes, product design changes, manufacturing and procurement processes and document retention processes to comply with new federal flame retardancy standards applicable to mattresses and mattress and foundation sets effective as of July 1, 2007; • Our ability to secure adequate sources of supply at reasonable cost, especially considering our single sources of supply for some components and just-in-time manufacturing processes, as well as potential shortages of commodities; • Our ability to maintain sales volumes and profit margins and effectively manage the effects of inflationary pressures caused by rising fuel and commodity costs as well as fluctuating currency rates and increasing industry regulatory requirements, all of which could increase product and service costs; • Our ability to cost-effectively offer consumer credit options through third party credit providers; • The capability of our management information systems to continue to meet the requirements of our business and our ability to successfully implement our planned SAP-based enterprise-wide information technology architecture; • General economic conditions and consumer confidence; and • Global events, such as terrorist attacks or a pandemic outbreak, or the threat of such events. 12 Table of Contents We may not be successful in executing our growth strategy or in sustaining profitable growth. Failure to successfully execute any material part of our strategic plan or growth strategy could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The mattress industry is highly competitive. Our business could be significantly harmed by existing competitive pressures or from one or more new entrants into the market. Our Sleep Number beds compete with a number of different types of mattress alternatives, including standard innerspring mattresses, foam mattresses, waterbeds, futons and other air-supported mattress products sold through a variety of channels, including home furnishings stores, specialty mattress stores, department stores, mass merchants, wholesale clubs, telemarketing programs, television infomercials and catalogs. The mattress industry is characterized by a high degree of concentration among the four largest manufacturers of innerspring mattresses with nationally recognized brand names, including Sealy, which also owns the Stearns & Foster brand, Serta, Simmons and Spring Air. Numerous other manufacturers, primarily operating on a regional or niche basis, serve the balance of the mattress market. Tempur-Pedic International, Inc. and other companies compete in the mattress industry with foam mattress products. A number of mattress manufacturers, including Sealy and Simmons, as well as a number of smaller manufacturers, including low-cost foreign manufacturers, have offered air beds that compete with our products. We believe that many of our competitors, including in particular the four largest mattress manufacturers, have greater financial, marketing and manufacturing resources and better brand name recognition than we do and sell products through broader and more established distribution channels. Our stores and other company-owned distribution channels compete with other retailers who often provide a wider selection of mattress alternatives than we offer through our channels of distribution, which may place our channels of distribution at a competitive disadvantage. These manufacturing and retailing competitors, or new entrants into the market, may compete aggressively and gain market share with existing and new mattress products, and may pursue or expand their presence in the air bed segment of the market. Some competitors may engage in aggressive advertising strategies that may include false or misleading claims about competitive products and/or our products. Any such competition could inhibit our ability to retain or increase market share, inhibit our ability to maintain or increase prices and reduce our margins, which could significantly harm our business. Our products represent a significant departure from traditional innerspring mattresses and the failure of our products to achieve market acceptance would significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We estimate that innerspring mattress sales represent approximately 73% of all mattress sales. Our air chamber technology represents a significant departure from traditional innerspring mattresses. Because no established market for adjustable firmness mattress products existed prior to the introduction of our products in 1988, we faced the challenge of establishing the viability of this market, as well as gaining widespread acceptance of our products. The market for adjustable firmness mattresses is now evolving and our future success will depend upon both the continued growth of this market and increased consumer acceptance of our products. The failure of our products to achieve greater consumer acceptance for any reason would significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to enhance our existing products and develop and market new products that respond to customer needs and achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to sustain our growth or profitability. One of our growth strategies is to continue to lead our industry in product innovation and sleep expertise by enhancing existing products and by developing and marketing new products that deliver personalized comfort and better sleep. We may not be successful in developing or marketing enhanced or new products that will receive acceptance in the marketplace. Further, the resulting level of sales from any of our enhanced or new products may not justify the costs associated with the development and marketing. Any failure to continue to develop and market enhanced or new products in a cost-effective manner could harm our ability to sustain our growth or profitability. Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness of our marketing messages and the efficiency of our advertising expenditures and other marketing programs in generating consumer awareness and sales of our products. We are highly dependent on the effectiveness of our marketing messages and the efficiency of our advertising expenditures (which were approximately $105 million in 2006, $90 million in 2005, $79 million in 2004, $60 million in 2003, $40 million in 2002 and $30 million in 2001) in generating consumer awareness and sales of our products. If our marketing messages are ineffective or our advertising expenditures and other marketing programs are inefficient in creating greater awareness of our 13 Table of Contents products and brand name, driving consumer traffic to our points of distribution and motivating consumers to purchase our products, our operating results and financial condition may be significantly and adversely impacted. Our integrated marketing program depends in part on national radio personalities and spokespersons, including Paul Harvey, Rush Limbaugh and Lindsay Wagner and other nationally known personalities. The loss of these endorsements, or any reduction in the effectiveness of these endorsements, or our inability to obtain additional effective endorsements, could adversely affect our net sales and profitability. Our future growth and profitability will depend in part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our internet-based advertising programs and upon the prominence of our Web site URLs on internet search engine results. We believe that consumers are increasingly using the internet as a part of their shopping experience, both to conduct pre-purchase research, particularly with respect to high end consumer durables, as well as to purchase products. Consumers will typically use one of a small number of internet search engines to research products. These search engines may provide both natural search results and purchased listings for particular key words. In some cases, it may be difficult or impossible to determine how these search engines work, particularly in the area of natural search, and therefore how to optimize placement on those search engines for our Web site URLs and other positive sites for consumers who may be searching for our products or for mattress products or retailers generally. Some of these search engines may permit competitors to bid on our trademarks to obtain high placement in search results when consumers use our trademarks to seek information regarding our products, which may cause confusion among consumers and adversely impact our sales. In addition, some of our competitors may use our trademarks and/or publish false or misleading information on the internet regarding our products or their own products, which may also cause confusion among consumers and adversely impact our sales. As a result, our future growth and profitability will depend in part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our on-line advertising and search optimization programs in generating consumer awareness and sales of our products, and upon our ability to prevent competitors from misusing or infringing our trademarks or publishing false or misleading information regarding our products or their own products. If we are not successful in these efforts, our business, reputation, operating results and financial condition may be significantly and adversely impacted. In addition, if our Web site becomes unavailable for a significant period of time due to failure of our information technology systems or the Internet, our net sales could be materially and adversely affected. Our comparable-store sales or other operating results may fluctuate significantly. An unanticipated decline in comparable-store sales or other operating results may disappoint investors and result in a decline in our stock price. Our comparable-store sales and other operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past. For example, from 1998 through 2006, our quarterly comparable-store sales results ranged from a decrease of 9% to an increase of 38%. These past results may not be a meaningful indicator of future performance. Our comparable-store sales and other operating results may fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Many factors affect our comparable-store sales and other operating results and may contribute to fluctuations or declines in these results in the future, including but not limited to: • The effectiveness of our marketing messages and the efficiency of our advertising expenditures and other marketing programs in building awareness of our products, brand and store locations, driving traffic to our store locations and increasing sales; • Levels of consumer acceptance of our existing products, new product offerings and brand image; • Consumer shopping trends, including traffic trends in shopping malls and lifestyle centers and internet shopping trends; • Higher levels of sales in the first year of operations as each successive class of new stores is opened; • Comparable-store sales performance in prior periods; • The continuing maturation of our store base with increasing levels of average sales per store; • Our ability to adequately hire, train, motivate and retain sales professionals and store-level managers; 14 Table of Contents • The level of competitive activity; • The growth of our other distribution channels, including in particular the wholesale distribution of our products through home furnishings and specialty mattress retailers into markets with existing company-owned retail stores; • General economic conditions and consumer confidence; and • Global events, such as terrorist attacks or a pandemic outbreak, or the threat of such events. Future fluctuations or decreases in our comparable-store sales or other operating results could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, an unanticipated decline in comparable-store sales or other operating results may disappoint securities analysts or investors and result in a decline in our stock price. Our business is subject to seasonal influences and a substantial portion of our net sales is often realized in the last month or last few weeks of a quarter, due in part to our promotional schedule and commission structure. As our marketing expenditures are largely based on our expectations of future customer inquiries and net sales, and cannot be adjusted quickly, a failure to meet these expectations may harm our profitability. Our business is subject to some seasonal influences, with typically lower sales in the second quarter and higher sales during the fourth quarter holiday season due to greater mall traffic. Furthermore, a substantial portion of our sales is often realized in the last month or last few weeks of a quarter, due in part to our promotional schedule and commission structure. The level of our sales and marketing expenses and new store opening costs is based, in significant part, on our expectations of future customer inquiries and net sales and cannot be adjusted quickly. If there is a shortfall in expected net sales or in the conversion rate of customer inquiries, we may be unable to adjust our spending in a timely manner and our profitability may be significantly harmed. Significant and unexpected return rates under our 30-night trial period and warranty claims under our 20-year limited warranty on our beds, in excess of our returns and warranty reserves, could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Part of our marketing and advertising strategy focuses on providing a 30-night trial in which customers may return their beds and obtain a refund of the purchase price if they are not fully satisfied with our product. As we expand our sales, return rates may not remain within acceptable levels. A significant and unexpected increase in return rates could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We also provide our customers with a 20-year limited warranty on our beds. However, since we have only been selling beds in significant quantities since 1992, we may receive significant and unexpected claims under these warranty obligations that could exceed our warranty reserves. Significant warranty claims in excess of our warranty reserves could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our plan to pursue additional and maintain existing wholesale relationships with home furnishings retailers, specialty mattress retailers and the QVC shopping channel may not yield the benefits we expect and may involve other risks that may harm our business. An important element of our growth strategy is to expand profitable distribution by increasing sales through our existing channels and by increasing opportunities for consumers to become aware of, and to purchase, our products through additional points of distribution, such as home furnishings retailers and specialty mattress retailers. We have only recently established a limited number of wholesale relationships with home furnishings retailers, specialty mattress retailers and the QVC shopping channel and therefore have limited wholesale experience. Our wholesale relationships may not result in the intended benefits of leveraging our advertising spending and increasing our brand awareness, sales and overall market acceptance of our products. Our wholesale distribution may also adversely impact sales through our company-controlled distribution channels. We also expect the gross margin from wholesale sales to be less than the gross margin we generate in our company-controlled channels. The success of our wholesale strategy will depend upon numerous factors, including but not limited to the following: • Our ability to analyze and identify suitable wholesale distribution partners and markets in which our retail presence is under-represented; • Our ability to negotiate favorable distribution terms with our wholesale distribution partners; 15 Table of Contents • Our ability and the ability of our wholesale distribution partners to adequately train, motivate and retain sales professionals who are selling our products; • Our ability to adapt our distribution and other operational and management systems to an expanded network of points of sale; • Our ability and the ability of our wholesale distribution partners to attract customers and generate sales sufficient to justify the expense of establishing the wholesale distribution relationship; and • Our ability to maintain sales growth in our company-controlled retail stores in markets in which wholesale distribution partners are added. We have established relationships with a limited number of home furnishings retailers and specialty mattress retailers over the last several years. The loss of one or more of these accounts could have a material adverse affect upon our wholesale distribution strategy and could adversely impact our ability to achieve our overall sales growth and profitability objectives. Any failure to achieve the objectives of our wholesale distribution strategy may significantly harm our operating results and financial condition. Our program to place beds in Radisson Hotels and Resorts may fail to achieve planned objectives, which may harm our business and adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. An important element of our growth strategy is to expand consumer awareness of our products and brand. In May 2004, we established a relationship with Radisson Hotels and Resorts with plans to replace a majority of the beds in Radisson Hotels and Resorts in the United States, Canada and the Caribbean with Sleep Number beds over several years. This program is designed in part to drive consumer awareness of our products and brand among the guests of Radisson Hotels and Resorts. The success of this strategy will depend upon numerous factors, including but not limited to levels of acceptance of our products among Radisson Hotels and Resorts franchisees, the execution of marketing programs in connection with this relationship, and the quality of guests’ experiences on our beds at the Radisson Hotels and Resorts. Any material failure to achieve the objectives of this program with Radisson Hotels and Resorts may significantly harm our operating results and financial condition. We have plans to expand our distribution internationally, which presents some additional risks to our business. To date, the vast majority of our sales have been made in the U.S. and we have sold only very minimal quantities of products in foreign jurisdictions. In late 2005, we began to distribute our products in Canada through a Canadian-based bedding retailer and we have begun to pursue plans to enable distribution of our products in some other foreign countries. Expansion of our distribution to foreign jurisdictions, and our lack of experience in international distribution, present some risks to our business, including without limitation the need to build awareness of our products and brand in new markets, the need to gain market acceptance for new products that represent a significant departure from traditional bedding products, logistical and systems complexities, different levels of protection of our intellectual property, language and cultural differences, the need to comply with additional and different regulatory requirements, foreign currency exchange risks and political instability. Although several members of our senior management team have significant experience in international distribution of consumer goods, as a company our experience in this area is limited. We plan to invest in our international infrastructure in advance of sales in international jurisdictions which may adversely impact our overall profitability. If we are unable to achieve consumer awareness and market acceptance for our products in foreign jurisdictions, we may not be able to achieve sufficient sales and profitability in our international operations to justify the investment. We utilize “just-in-time” manufacturing processes with minimal levels of raw materials, work in process and finished goods inventories, which could leave us vulnerable to shortages of supply of key components. Any such shortage could result in our inability to satisfy consumer demand for our products in a timely manner and lost sales, which could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We generally assemble our products after we receive orders from customers utilizing “just-in-time” manufacturing processes. Lead times for ordered components may vary significantly and depend upon a variety of factors, such as the location of the supplier, the complexity in manufacturing the component and general demand for the component. Some of our components, including our air chambers, have relatively longer lead times. We generally maintain minimal levels of raw materials, work in process and finished goods inventories, except for our air chambers, of which we generally carry approximately six weeks of inventory. As a result, an unexpected shortage of supply of key components used to manufacture our products, or an 16 Table of Contents unexpected and significant increase in the demand for our products, could lead to inadequate inventory and delays in shipping our beds to customers. Any such delays could result in lost sales, which could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Damage to either of our manufacturing facilities could increase our costs of doing business or lead to delays in shipping our beds, which could result in increased returns and adversely affect future sales. We have two manufacturing plants, which are located in Irmo, South Carolina and in Salt Lake City, Utah. Unlike other mattress manufacturers, we manufacture beds to fulfill orders rather than stocking finished goods inventory. Therefore, the destruction or shutting down of either of our manufacturing facilities for a significant period of time as a result of fire, explosion, act of war or terrorism, flood, hurricane, tornado, earthquake, lightning or other natural disaster could increase our costs of doing business and lead to delays in shipping our beds to customers. Such delays could result in increased returns and adversely affect future sales. Due to our make-to-order business model, these adverse consequences to our business may be greater for our company than with other mattress manufacturers. We rely upon several key suppliers that are, in some instances, our sole source of supply. The failure of one or more of these suppliers or our other key suppliers to supply components for our products on a timely basis, or a material change in the purchase terms for our components, could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We currently obtain all of the materials and components used to produce our beds from outside sources. A number of components, including our proprietary air chambers, our proprietary blow-molded foundations, various components for our Firmness Control Systems, as well as fabrics and zippers, are sourced from suppliers who serve as our sole source of supply for these components. We also obtain the wood foundations to support our wholesale and hospitality channels businesses and our adjustable foundations from sole sources of supply. We have a supply agreement with the supplier of our air chambers that expires in September 2011, subject to automatic annual renewal thereafter unless either party gives 365 days’ notice of non-renewal. We have a supply agreement with the supplier of our blow-molded foundations that expires in December 2009. We have a supply agreement with the supplier of our foam that expires in June 2008 with an option to renew the agreement for one year thereafter. If our relationship with either the supplier of our air chambers or the supplier of our blow-molded foundations is terminated, we could have difficulty in replacing these sources since there are relatively few other suppliers capable of manufacturing these components. We generally purchase many of our other components and raw materials centrally to obtain volume discounts and achieve economies of scale. We therefore obtain a large percentage of our components and raw materials from a small number of suppliers. We purchase most of our components and raw materials through purchase orders and do not have any long-term purchase agreements with, or other contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access from, any of our suppliers, except for air chambers, blow-molded foundations, foam, fiber and circuit boards. If prices for our key components increase and we are unable to achieve offsetting savings through value engineering or increased productivity or we are unable to increase prices to our customers, our operating results and financial condition may be significantly harmed. The loss of one or more of our key suppliers, the failure of one or more of our key suppliers to supply components to our products on a timely basis, or a material change in the purchase terms for our components could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The foreign manufacturing of our air chambers and some of our other components involves risks that could increase our costs, lead to inadequate inventory levels or delays in shipping beds to our customers, which could substantially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Since our air chambers and some of our other components are manufactured outside the United States, our operations could be significantly harmed by the risks associated with foreign sourcing of materials, including but not limited to: • Political instability resulting in disruption of trade; • Existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of certain types of goods that may be imported into the United States or increase the cost of such goods; 17 Table of Contents • Disruptions in transportation that could be caused by a variety of factors including acts of terrorism, shipping delays, foreign or domestic dock strikes, customs inspections or other factors; • Any significant fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies; and • Economic uncertainties, including inflation. These factors could increase our costs of doing business with foreign suppliers, lead to inadequate inventory levels or delays in shipping beds to our customers, which could substantially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If any of these or other factors were to render the conduct of any of our foreign suppliers’ businesses more difficult or impractical, we may have difficulty sourcing key components of our products, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Increases in commodity prices, component costs and/or delivery costs could harm our profitability. Recently there have been significant increases or volatility in the prices of certain commodities, including but not limited to fuel, oil, natural gas, rubber, cotton, plastic resin, steel and chemical ingredients used to produce foam. Increases in prices of these commodities may result in significant cost increases for our raw materials and product components, as well as increases in the cost of delivering our products to our customers. These increases in costs may require us to increase our prices, potentially adversely impacting our unit sales volumes, and may increase our costs of doing business, potentially adversely impacting our operating results and financial condition. We depend upon UPS and other carriers to deliver some of our products to customers on a timely and cost-effective basis. Any significant delay in deliveries to our customers could lead to increased returns and cause us to lose future sales. Any increase in freight charges could increase our costs of doing business and harm our profitability. Historically, we have relied to a significant extent on UPS for delivery of our products to customers. For a significant portion of the third quarter of 1997, UPS was unable to deliver our products within acceptable time periods due to a labor strike, causing delays in deliveries to customers and requiring us to use alternative carriers. UPS may not be able to avert labor difficulties in the future or may otherwise experience difficulties in meeting our requirements in the future. From 2000 to 2003, we demonstrated an ability to shift a portion of our product delivery business to FedEx, as necessary. In addition, we either provide directly, or contract with a third party to provide, in-home delivery, assembly and mattress removal services, and in 2003 expanded the availability of this service to all of our retail stores across the country. Despite these alternative carriers, if UPS were to experience difficulties in meeting our requirements we may not be able to deliver products to all of our customers on a timely or cost-effective basis through any one or more of these or other alternative carriers. Any significant delay in deliveries to our customers could lead to increased returns and cause us to lose future sales. Any increase in freight charges could increase our costs of doing business and harm our profitability. More than one-third of our net sales are financed by a third party. The termination of our agreement with this third party, any material change to the terms of our agreement with this third party or in the availability or terms of credit offered to our customers by this third party, or any delay in securing replacement credit sources, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our qualified customers are offered a revolving credit arrangement to finance purchases from us through a private label consumer credit facility provided by GE Money Bank. In December 2005 we entered into an amended and restated agreement with GE Money Bank that extends this consumer credit arrangement through February 15, 2011, subject to earlier termination upon certain events and subject to automatic extensions. Under this agreement, GE Money Bank sets the minimum acceptable credit ratings, the interest rates, fees and all other terms and conditions of the customer accounts, including collection policies and procedures, and is the owner of the accounts. In connection with all purchases financed under these arrangements, GE Money Bank pays us an amount equal to the total amount of such purchases, net of promotional related discounts. Any increase by GE Money Bank in the minimum customer credit ratings necessary to qualify for credit could adversely impact our sales by decreasing the number of customers who can finance purchases. We are liable to GE Money Bank for charge-backs arising out of (i) breach of our warranties relating to the underlying sale transaction, (ii) defective products or (iii) our failure to comply with applicable operating procedures under the facility. We are not liable to GE Money Bank for losses arising out of our customers’ credit defaults. 18 Table of Contents We have the right to terminate the agreement in order to manage this consumer credit program internally at any time after 2008. Upon the termination of the agreement, we have the right, but not the obligation, to purchase GE Money Bank’s portfolio of customer accounts. Approximately 40% of our net sales during 2006 were financed by GE Money Bank or its predecessor, Mill Creek Bank. Consumers that do not qualify for credit under our agreement with GE Money Bank may apply for credit under a secondary program maintained by the company through another provider. Termination of our agreement with GE Money Bank or with our secondary provider, any material change to the terms of our agreement with either of these providers, or in the availability or terms of credit for our customers from these providers, or any delay in securing replacement credit sources, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our current management information systems may not be adequate to support our growth strategy. We have recently undertaken plans to implement an SAP-based enterprise-wide information technology architecture. We currently expect this project to be completed in the first half of 2008 and we expect to incur significant increases in expenses and capital expenditures in 2007 and the remainder of the implementation phase to complete this project. This project may take longer and may require more resources to implement than anticipated, may cause distraction of key personnel, may cause disruptions to our business, and may not ultimately provide the benefits we anticipate. Any of these outcomes could impair our ability to achieve critical strategic initiatives and could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We depend upon our management information systems for many aspects of our business. Our current information systems architecture includes some off-the-shelf programs as well as some key software that has been developed by our own programmers, which is not easily modified or integrated with other software and systems and limits the flexibility and scalability of our information systems. Our business will be materially and adversely affected if our management information systems are disrupted or if we are unable to improve, upgrade, integrate or expand our systems as we execute our growth strategy. In addition, any failure of our systems and processes to adequately protect customer information from theft or loss could materially and adversely impact our business, our reputation and our operating results. We have recently undertaken plans to implement an integrated suite of SAP-based applications, including enterprise resources planning, customer relationship management, supply chain management, product lifecycle management, supplier relationship management, human capital management, strategic enterprise management, business intelligence and enterprise portal systems to replace many of our current systems. We believe this SAP-based IT architecture, along with best-practices-based processes and higher concentrations of off-the-shelf, packaged solutions, will provide greater flexibility and functionality for our growing and evolving business model and be less expensive to maintain over the long-term. This project may take longer and may require more resources to implement than anticipated, may cause distraction of key personnel, may cause disruptions to our business, and may not ultimately provide the benefits we anticipate. Any of these outcomes could impair our ability to achieve critical strategic initiatives and could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to a wide variety of government regulations. Any failure to comply with any of these regulations could be very damaging to our business, reputation and operating results. We may be required to incur significant expenses or to modify our operations in order to ensure compliance with these regulations. We are subject to a wide variety of government regulations relating to the bedding industry or to various aspects of our business and operations, including without limitation: • Regulations relating to the proper labeling of bedding merchandise and other aspects of product handling and sale; • State regulations related to the proper labeling and sale of bedding products produced in part from refurbished components; • Federal and state flammability standards applicable generally to mattresses and mattress and foundation sets, described in greater detail below; • Environmental regulations; 19 Table of Contents • Consumer protection and data privacy regulations; • Regulations related to marketing and advertising claims; • Various federal and state “do not call” or “do not mail” list requirements; • Federal, state and foreign labor laws, including but not limited to laws relating to occupational health and safety, employee privacy, wages and hours, overtime pay, harassment and discrimination, equal opportunity, and employee leaves and benefits; • Antitrust regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions where we may sell our products in the future; • Import and export regulations; • Federal and state tax laws; and • Federal and state securities laws; Although we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with these regulations and have implemented a variety of measures to promote continuing compliance, regulations may change over time and we may be required to incur expenses and/or to modify our operations in order to ensure compliance with these regulations, which could harm our operating results. If we are found to be in violation of any of the foregoing laws or regulations, we could become subject to fines, penalties, damages or other sanctions, as well as potential adverse public relations, which could materially and adversely impact our business, our reputation and our operating results. All mattresses and mattress and foundation sets, including ours, will be subject to new federal flammability standards and related regulations beginning in July 2007. Compliance with these regulations may result in increased product costs, may require modifications to our systems and operations and may increase the risk of disruptions to our business due to ongoing testing to assure compliance or regulatory inspections. The federal Consumer Product Safety Commission has adopted a new flammability standard and related regulations to be effective nationwide in July 2007 for mattresses and mattress and foundation sets. Compliance with these requirements may result in higher materials and manufacturing costs for our products, and will require modifications to our information systems and business operations, which may also increase our costs. To the extent we are unable to offset increased costs through value engineering and similar initiatives underway, or through price increases, our operating margins may be adversely impacted. If we choose to increase prices to preserve operating margins, our unit sales volumes could be adversely impacted. Compliance may also require more complicated manufacturing processes, which may reduce our manufacturing capacity and require us to expand our manufacturing capacity sooner than otherwise anticipated. The new regulations require manufacturers to implement quality assurance programs to ensure compliance and encourage manufacturers to conduct random testing of products. The new regulations also require maintenance and retention of compliance documentation. These quality assurance and documentation requirements will be costly to implement and maintain. If any product testing yields results indicating that any of our products may not meet the flammability standard, or if we obtain test results or other evidence that any of our products may fail to meet the standard or that a material or process used in manufacturing could affect the test performance of our product, we may be required to temporarily cease production and distribution and/or to recall products from the field, and we may be subject to fines or penalties, any of which outcomes could substantially harm our business, reputation, operating results and financial condition. We may also face increased risks of disruptions to our business caused by regulatory inspections. We may face exposure to product liability claims. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of any of our products is alleged to have resulted in personal injury or property damage. In the event that any of our products proves to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products. In 2004, we experienced increased returns and adverse impacts on sales as a result of media reports related to the alleged propensity of our products to develop mold. We may experience material increases in returns and material adverse impacts on sales in the event any similar media reports were to occur in the future. We maintain insurance against product liability claims, but such coverage may not continue to be available on terms 20 Table of Contents acceptable to us and may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. A successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage, or any claim or product recall that results in significant adverse publicity against us, may have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may be unable to prevent other companies from using our technology in competitive products. We own various U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications related to certain elements of the design and function of our beds and related products. We also own several registered and unregistered trademarks and trademark applications, including in particular our Select Comfort and Sleep Number trademarks, which we believe have significant value and are important to the marketing of our products to customers. In addition to patents and trademarks, we rely upon copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights and we have implemented several measures to protect our intellectual property and confidential information contained in our products, such as entering into assignment of invention and nondisclosure agreements with certain of our employees. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, to a significant extent, upon our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our owned intellectual property and confidential information. Our intellectual property rights may not provide substantial protection against infringement or piracy and may be circumvented by our competitors. Our protective measures may not protect our intellectual property rights or confidential information or prevent our competitors from developing and marketing products that are similar to or competitive with our beds or other products. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights and confidential information to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may be unable to prevent other companies from using our technology or trademarks in connection with competitive products, which could adversely affect our sales or require us to decrease our prices. Intellectual property litigation, which could result in substantial costs to us and the diversion of significant time and effort by our executive management, may be necessary to enforce our patents and trademarks and to protect our trade secrets and proprietary technology. We may not have the financial resources necessary to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights. We are not aware of any material intellectual property infringement or invalidity claims that may be asserted against us, however, it is possible that third parties, including competitors, may successfully assert such claims. The cost of defending such claims, or any resulting liability, or any failure to obtain necessary licenses on reasonable terms, may adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. The loss of the services of any members of our executive management team could materially and adversely impact our ability to execute our business strategy and growth initiatives and could significantly harm our business. We are currently dependent upon the continued services, ability and experience of our executive management team, particularly William R. McLaughlin, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. McLaughlin or any other member of our executive management team could have a material adverse effect on our ability to execute our business strategy and growth initiatives and on our results of operation and financial condition. We do not maintain any key person life insurance on any members of our executive management team. Our future growth and success will also depend upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate other qualified personnel. Additional terrorist attacks in the United States or against U.S. targets or actual or threats of war or the escalation of current hostilities involving the United States or its allies could significantly impact our business, financial condition, operating results or stock price in unpredictable ways. Additional terrorist attacks in the United States or against U.S. targets, or threats of war or the escalation of current hostilities involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions impacting our domestic or foreign suppliers of components of our products, may impact our operations, including, but not limited to, causing delays or losses in the delivery of merchandise to us and decreased sales of our products. These events could cause an increase in oil or other commodity prices, which could adversely affect our materials or transportation costs, including delivery of our products to customers. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. and worldwide financial markets. These events also could cause an economic recession in the United States or abroad. Any of these occurrences could have a significant impact on our business, operating results and financial condition and may result in volatility of our stock price. 21 Table of Contents An outbreak of Avian Flu or a pandemic, or the threat of a pandemic, may adversely impact our ability to produce and deliver our products or may adversely impact consumer demand. Concern has grown recently over the possibility of a significant or global outbreak of avian flu or a similar pandemic. A significant outbreak of avian flu, or a similar pandemic, or even a perceived threat of such an outbreak, could cause significant disruptions to our supply chain, manufacturing capability and distribution system that could adversely impact our ability to produce and deliver products, which could result in a loss of sales and an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Similarly, such events could cause significant adverse impacts on consumer confidence and consumer demand generally, which could significantly and adversely impact our sales, results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 22 Table of Contents 