Item 1A. Risk Factors The statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. If any of the following risks actually occur, they may materially harm our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flow. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we think are immaterial may also materially harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business Obtaining regulatory approvals for our products is costly and uncertain. The rigorous clinical testing and extensive regulatory approval process mandated by the FDA and equivalent foreign authorities before we can market any new drug, device or product can take a number of years and require the expenditure of substantial resources. Obtaining such approvals and completing such testing is a costly and time-consuming process, and approval may not ultimately be obtained. The length of the FDA regulatory process and review period varies considerably, as does the amount of data required to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a specific product. If the compounds in testing are modified or optimized or if certain results are obtained, it may extend the testing process. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon changes in FDA policy, personal or prior understandings during the period of product development and FDA regulatory review of each investigational new drug application, new drug application, new dietary ingredient notification or product license application. Similar delays may also be encountered in other countries. There can be no assurance that even after such time and expenditures we will obtain regulatory approval for any products we develop. A marketed product, its manufacturer and its manufacturing facilities are also subject to continual review and periodic inspections, and later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on such product or manufacturer, potentially including withdrawal of the product from the market, which would adversely affect our operations and financial condition. We may be unable to obtain FDA approval, or to establish a market, for OraTest® in the United States. We are seeking FDA approval for OraTest® and are conducting a phase III clinical trial to include in an amended New Drug Application. We have made a significant financial investment to obtain FDA approval of the OraTest® product, to build our manufacturing facility and to prepare for the introduction of OraTest® in the United States market. There can be no assurance that our regulatory program will meet the FDA’s requirements or that the FDA will issue a final approval of the OraTest® product, and the failure of the FDA to approve OraTest® would make it impossible for us to recoup our investment through sales of the OraTest® products in the United States. The failure of the FDA to finally approve the OraTest® product would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If regulatory approval is granted, such approval may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. Further, even if such regulatory approval is obtained, the FDA may require post-marketing reporting, and may require surveillance programs to monitor the usage or side effects of the product. If FDA approval of the OraTest® product is received, we must establish a marketing and sales force with technical expertise to market directly to the dental profession or we must obtain the assistance of a company or a distributor with a sales force. There is no assurance that we will be successful in gaining market acceptance of the OraTest® product. 15 Table of Contents Based on recent evaluations of the anticipated scope of the regulatory program, we believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, along with cash from operations and working capital management, the sale of non-core assets including the divestiture of Zila Nutraceuticals, Inc. and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee stock option, stock purchase programs and stock purchase warrants will be adequate to fund the OraTest® clinical study to its completion for submission to the FDA review process. There can be no assurances that these amounts will be adequate to support the future regulatory program costs if the regulatory approval effort proceeds at a slower rate than expected, requires additional testing beyond our current expectation, the costs increase beyond current estimates or we are unable to sustain the required level of cash flow from operations. Factors that affect the cost and timing of completion of the regulatory program include but are not limited to: (i) patient enrollment rates; (ii) lesion formation rate within the study population; (iii) compliance with the study protocol and related monitoring; (iv) level of funding throughout the study; and (v) program modifications or additional testing. No assurances can be made that the regulatory objectives will be achieved for OraTest®. At July 31, 2006, we had approximately $428,000 of OraTest® clinical rinse and swab inventory, ZTCtm drug substance, the active ingredient in the OraTest® product, and its related components. We intend to realize the value of this inventory and drug substance (i) through its consumption during the conduct of the clinical trials, process development, toxicology studies and validation testing of our manufacturing process. The drug substance currently has shelf lives with varying expiration dates. Our periodic testing has indicated that the drug substance is stable and we anticipate being able to extend the expiration dates of the entire drug substance beyond their current expiration dates if our plans are delayed. However, no assurance can be given in this regard. The sale of the Nutraceuticals Business Unit reduced our revenue by approximately 76%. The assets we sold in our recent disposition of the Nutraceuticals Business Unit constituted approximately 76% of our revenues and 10% of our loss from continuing operations in fiscal 2006. Following the disposition, our immediate ability to produce revenues and income will therefore be substantially reduced. There can be no assurance that the proceeds from the disposition, along with other capital that we have access to, will be adequate to bring our developing product lines to market nor can we be certain that our future products, even if brought to market, will be sufficiently successful to replace the revenue of our Nutraceuticals Business Unit. We may fail to realize the anticipated cost savings, revenue enhancements, product focus, or other benefits expected from our recent disposition of the Nutraceuticals Business Unit and any subsequent acquisition. Our future growth will depend on our ability to implement our business strategy. We are pursuing an acquisition of a privately-held dental products company that would strengthen our core businesses in our Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology Units, including the development and commercialization of oral cancer screening products. We believe that such an acquisition could increase our ability to deliver our oral cancer screening products into the dental marketplace and result in synergies that enhance our sales capability, potentially reduce our costs and increase our profits. However, successful acquisitions in our industry are difficult to accomplish because they require, among other things, efficient integration and aligning of product offerings and manufacturing operations and coordination of sales and marketing and research and development efforts. The difficulties of integration and alignment may be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, the complexity of the technologies being integrated and aligned and the necessity of integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures. The integration and alignment of operations following an acquisition or alliance requires the dedication of management resources that may distract attention from the day-to-day business, and may disrupt key research and development, marketing or sales efforts. The strategic measures taken to reduce ViziLite® Plus sales to distributors in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 may have a negative impact on ViziLite® Plus sales through distributors if the acquisition is not completed. In addition, there is no guarantee that we will be able to consummate such acquisition or that such acquisition will result in the synergies we anticipate. Furthermore, uncertainties associated with such acquisition combined with the recent disposition of our Nutraceuticals Business Unit may cause loss of employees. Ultimately, the success of such acquisition depends in part on the retention of key personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain the acquired company’s key management, technical, sales and customer support personnel. If we fail to retain such 16 Table of Contents key employees, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisition and the disposition of the Nutraceuticals Business Unit. We have incurred substantial expenses and committed valuable time related to the recent disposition of our Nutraceuticals Business Unit and our ability to successfully execute our business plan is dependent on our ability to obtain adequate financing. We have incurred substantial expenses related to legal and financial advisors and our management has spent significant time on matters implementing its strategic vision. Our business plan has required and will require substantial capital expenditures. We will require additional financing to fund our planned growth. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on the results of our operations and the status of various capital and industry markets at the time we seek such capital. We may also incur debt or assume contingent liabilities that could place restrictions on management’s ability to use capital or conduct the business. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In the event additional capital resources are unavailable, we may be required to curtail our development and acquisition activities. We are dependent on a few key products and our growth is dependent on the development of new products. Nearly all of our revenues for the past fiscal year were derived from sales of Ester-C®, Peridex®, and ViziLite®. As disclosed above, we disposed of our Nutraceuticals Business Unit and the Ester-C® products on October 2, 2006. If any of our remaining major products were to become subject to a problem such as loss of patent protection, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting user confidence, or pressure from competing products, or if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the impact on our revenues could be significant. Additionally, we are reliant on third party manufacturers and single suppliers for nearly all of our Peridex® and ViziLite® products, and any supply problems resulting from regulatory issues applicable to such parties or failures to comply with cGMP could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. Our future growth is dependent on new product development. New product initiatives may not be successfully implemented because of many factors, including, but not limited to, difficulty in assimilation, development costs and diversion of management time. There can be no assurance that we will successfully develop and integrate new products into our business that will result in growth and a positive impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. A number of factors could impact our plans to commercialize our new products, including, but not limited to, difficulties in the production process, controlling the costs to produce, market and distribute the product on a commercial scale and our ability to do so with favorable gross margins and otherwise on a profitable basis; the inherent difficulty of gaining market acceptance for a new product; competition from larger, more established companies with greater resources; changes in raw material supplies that could result in production delays and higher raw material costs; difficulties in promoting consumer awareness for the new product; adverse publicity regarding the industries in which we market our products; and the cost, timing and ultimate results of human efficacy studies that we undertake. Our proprietary rights may prove difficult to enforce. Our current and future success depends on a combination of patent, trademark, and trade secret protection and nondisclosure and licensing agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We own and have exclusive licenses to a number of United States and foreign patents and patent applications and intend to seek additional patent applications as we deem necessary and appropriate to operate our business. We can offer no assurances regarding the strength of the patent portfolio underlying any existing or new product and/or technology or whether patents will issue from any pending patent applications related to a new product and/or technology, or if the patents do issue, that any claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to cover the product, technology or production process. Although we intend to defend our proprietary rights, policing unauthorized use of intellectual property is difficult or may prove materially costly and any patents that may be issued relating to new products and technology may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. 17 Table of Contents We have historically been, and will probably be in the future, dependent on a few key customers. In fiscal 2006, approximately 26% of our revenues were generated from two customers. Receivables due from three customers at July 31, 2006, represent approximately 40% of our accounts receivable. In the future, loss of any of our key customers related to our Pharmaceutical Business Unit, a reduction in sales to such key customers for any reason, or a failure to fulfill their financial or other obligations due to us could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We are dependent on our senior management and other key personnel. Our ability to operate successfully depends in significant part upon the experience, efforts and abilities of our senior management and other key scientific, technical and managerial personnel. Competition for talented personnel is intense. The loss of services of one or more of our key executives could adversely impact our financial performance and our ability to execute our strategies. Additionally, if we are unable to attract, train, motivate and retain key personnel, our business could be harmed. We and our products are subject to regulatory oversight that could substantially interfere with our ability to do business. We and our present and future products are subject to risks associated with new federal, state, local or foreign legislation or regulation or adverse determinations by regulators under existing regulations, including the interpretation of and compliance with existing, proposed and future regulatory requirements and dietary supplement and dietary supplement ingredient regulations imposed by the FDA. We are also subject to other governmental authorities such as the Department of Health and Human Services, the Consumer Products Safety Commission, the Department of Justice and the United States Federal Trade Commission with its regulatory authority over, among other items, product safety and efficacy claims made in product labeling and advertising. Individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws. A regulatory determination or development that affects our ability to market or produce one or more of our products could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operation and financial condition and may include product recalls, denial of approvals and other civil and criminal sanctions. We are at risk with respect to product liability claims. We could be exposed to possible claims for personal injury resulting from allegedly defective products manufactured by third parties with whom we have entered into manufacturing agreements or by us. We maintain $6 million in product liability insurance coverage for claims arising from the use of our products and, in most instances, require our manufacturers to carry product liability insurance. While we believe our insurance coverage is adequate, we could be subject to product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage. In addition, we may be unable to retain our existing coverage in the future. Any significant product liability claims not within the scope of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us. We face significant competition that could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. The nutraceutical, pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are highly competitive. A number of companies, many of which have financial resources, marketing capabilities, established relationships, superior experience and operating history and research and development capacities greater than ours, are actively engaged in the development of products similar to the products we produce and market. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive and ongoing research efforts. Other companies may succeed in developing products superior to those we market. It may be difficult for us to maintain or increase sales volume and market share due to such competition which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In particular, in the United States, competition with producers of generic products is a major challenge as is the case with Peridex®. The loss of any of our products’ patent protection could lead to a significant loss in sales of our products in the United States market. 18 Table of Contents If the use of our technology is determined to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, our business could be harmed. Litigation may result from our use of registered trademarks or common law marks and, if litigation against us were successful, a resulting loss of the right to use a trademark could reduce sales of our products and could result in a significant damage award. International operations may be affected by changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies in foreign countries in which we do business. Furthermore, if it were ultimately determined that our intellectual property rights are unenforceable, or that our use of our technology infringes on the intellectual property rights of others, we may be required or may desire to obtain licenses to patents and other intellectual property held by third parties to develop, manufacture and market products using our technology. We may not be able to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and any licensed patents or intellectual property that we may obtain may not be valid or enforceable. In addition, the scope of intellectual property protection is subject to scrutiny and challenge by courts and other governmental bodies. Litigation and other proceedings concerning patents and proprietary technologies can be protracted, expensive and distracting to management and companies may sue competitors as a way of delaying the introduction of competitors’ products. Any litigation, including any interference proceedings to determine priority of inventions, oppositions to patents in foreign countries or litigation against our partners, may be costly and time-consuming and could significantly harm our business. Because of the large number of patent filings in our industry, our competitors may have filed applications or been issued patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary intellectual property rights relating to products or processes competitive with or similar to ours. We cannot be certain that United States or foreign patents do not exist or will not be issued that would harm our ability to commercialize our products and product candidates. In addition, our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of an acquisition as we have lower visibility into any potential target’s safeguards and infringement risks. In addition, third party claims may be asserted after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to such acquisition. We require certain raw materials for our manufacturing processes that may only be acquired through limited sources. Raw materials essential to our business are generally readily available. However, certain raw materials and components used in the manufacture of pharmaceutical products are available from limited sources, and in some cases, a single source. Any curtailment in the availability of such raw materials could be accompanied by production delays, and in the case of products, for which only one raw material supplier exists, could result in a material loss of sales. In addition, because raw material sources for pharmaceutical products must generally be approved by regulatory authorities, changes in raw material suppliers could result in production delays, higher raw material costs and loss of sales and customers. Production delays may also be caused by the lack of secondary suppliers. If we are unable to obtain adequate funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop and market our present and potential products. Our liquidity needs arise from working capital requirements, the funding of our OraTest® regulatory program and the launch of our new products, such as ViziLite® Plus, and our future strategic initiatives. In the past, we have met these cash requirements through our cash and cash equivalents, borrowings under our credit facility, cash from operations and working capital management, the sale of non-core assets and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee stock option and stock purchase programs. In an effort to infuse additional liquidity into our company, we, certain of our domestic subsidiaries and Black Diamond Commercial Finance, L.L.C. as the initial lender and administrative agent, entered into a $40 million credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) which replaced our borrowing arrangement with Wells Fargo Bank. On March 24, 2006, we borrowed $20 million under the Credit Facility. On October 2, 2006, we repaid and terminated the Credit Facility. However, the development of our products will require the commitment of substantial resources to conduct the time-consuming research and development, clinical studies and regulatory activities necessary to bring any potential product to market and to 19 Table of Contents establish production, marketing and sales capabilities. In addition, in the near future, it is possible that we will need to raise additional funds for purposes that cannot be quantified and we may seek such additional funding through collaborative arrangements. If we are unable to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be required to (i) delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our research and product development programs or acquisition activity, (ii) limit the marketing of our products or (iii) license to third parties the rights to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to develop and market ourselves. We have, in the past, received minor deficiencies from regulatory agencies related to our manufacturing facilities. The FDA, OSHA and other regulatory agencies periodically inspect our manufacturing facilities and certain facilities of our suppliers. In the past, such inspections resulted in the identification of certain minor deficiencies in the standards we are required to maintain by such regulatory agencies. We developed and implemented action plans to remedy the deficiencies, however, there can be no assurance that such deficiencies will be remedied to the satisfaction of the applicable regulatory body. In the event that we are unable to remedy such deficiencies, our product supply could be affected as a result of plant shutdown, product recall or other similar regulatory actions, which would likely have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Capital Stock Financing arrangements or other corporate events could dilute existing ownership. If we choose to raise additional funds through the issuance of shares of our common stock, or securities convertible into our common stock, significant dilution of ownership in our company may occur, and holders of such securities may have rights senior to those of the holders of our common stock. If we obtain additional financing by issuing debt securities, the terms of these securities could restrict or prevent us from paying dividends and could limit our flexibility in making business decisions. Moreover, other corporate events such as the exercise of outstanding options would result in further dilution of our ownership. In the past, we have experienced volatility in the market price of our common stock and we may experience such volatility in the future. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past. We believe that announcements of new products, quarterly fluctuations in the results of operations and other factors, including changes in conditions in general in the industries in which we operate, and developments in regulatory arenas may have caused such fluctuations. Stock markets have experienced extreme price volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities we issued and other pharmaceutical and health care companies, often for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. In the past, stockholders of other companies have initiated securities class action litigation against such companies following periods of volatility in the market price of the applicable common stock. We anticipate that the market price of our common stock may continue to be volatile. If the market price of our common stock continues to fluctuate and our stockholders initiate this type of litigation, we could incur substantial costs and expenses and such litigation which could divert our management’s attention and resources, regardless of the outcome, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our Board of Directors may take actions which could dilute current equity ownership or prevent or delay a change in our control. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without any further vote by our stockholders, to issue up to 2,500,000 shares of Preferred Stock in one or more series and to determine the designations, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights thereof, including without limitation, the dividend rate (and whether dividends are cumulative), conversion rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption, redemption price and liquidation preference. On February 1, 2001, we issued 100,000 shares of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock related to the IST acquisition. As of July 31, 2006, all of these shares remained outstanding. 20 Table of Contents In addition, as our Board of Directors contemplates potential financings, they may decide to issue equity securities, or debt convertible into equity securities, which could be materially dilutive to existing shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 