Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 2. Properties 22 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 23 PART II 24 Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 24 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 27 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk 39 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 40 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 62 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 62 Item 9B. Other Information 62 PART III 63 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 63 Item 11. Executive Compensation 63 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 63 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 63 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 63 PART IV 64 Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 64 iii Table of Contents PART I This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains or incorporates by reference certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. For this purpose, any statements contained in or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements, including but not limited to projections of revenues, results of operations, financial condition or other financial items; any statements of plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations; any statements regarding proposed new products, services or developments; any statements regarding future economic conditions, prospects or performance; statements of belief and any statement or assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. In addition, we or others on our behalf may make forward-looking statements from time to time in oral presentations, including telephone conferences and/or Web casts open to the public, in press releases or reports, on our Internet Web site or otherwise. We try to identify forward-looking statements in this report and elsewhere by using words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” “intend,” “potential,” “continue” or the negative of these or similar terms. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made and by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including the items discussed in greater detail below under the caption “Risk Factors.” These risks and uncertainties are not exclusive and further information concerning the company and our business, including factors that potentially could materially affect our financial results or condition, may emerge from time to time, including factors that we may consider immaterial or do not anticipate at this time. We wish to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement and to recognize that forward-looking statements are predictions of future results, which may not occur as anticipated. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect actual results or changes in factors or assumptions affecting such forward-looking statements. We advise you, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K that we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Our Business Overview Select Comfort Corporation was founded as a Minnesota-based corporation in 1987 by an entrepreneur who developed and manufactured adjustable firmness mattresses after considering other alternatives such as innerspring and water mattresses. Select Comfort has evolved from a specialty, niche direct marketer, to a nationwide multi-channel business with fiscal 2007 net sales of $799 million. Our principal business is to develop, manufacture, market and distribute premium quality, adjustable-firmness beds and other sleep-related accessory products. The air-chamber technology of our proprietary Sleep Number bed allows adjustable firmness on each side of the mattress and provides a sleep surface that is clinically proven to provide better sleep quality and greater relief of back pain compared to traditional mattress products. In addition, we market and sell accessories and other sleep related products which focus on providing personalized comfort to complement the Sleep Number bed and provide a better night’s sleep to the consumer. We have a mission-driven culture focused on serving the needs of our customers. Our mission is to improve people’s lives through better sleep. Our goal is to educate our consumers on the importance of a better night’s sleep and the unique benefits of our products. In 1998, Select Comfort became a publicly-traded company and is listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (NASDAQ Global Select Market) under the symbol “SCSS.” When used herein, the terms “Select Comfort,” “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Select Comfort Corporation, including consolidated subsidiaries. Competitive Strengths Differentiated, Superior Product The unique benefits of our proprietary Sleep Number bed have been validated through clinical sleep research. Clinical sleep research has shown that people who sleep on a Sleep Number bed generally fall asleep faster and experience deeper sleep with fewer disturbances than those sleeping on a traditional innerspring mattress. The proprietary air-chamber technology of our Sleep Number bed allows adjustable firmness of the mattress at the touch of a button. Our dual chamber technology (two independent air chambers) allows consumers to adjust the firmness on both sides of the bed to meet each person’s individual 2 Table of Contents preference. Our clinical research has shown that our bed’s sleep surface generally provides better sleep quality and greater relief of back pain in comparison with traditional innerspring mattress products. Distinctive Brand In 2001, we created the Sleep Number brand. This branding strategy allows our marketing communications to focus on our bed’s distinguishing and proprietary features – adjustable firmness and support for personalized comfort. This is represented by the digital Sleep Number display on the bed’s hand-held remote control, with a brand message hierarchy as follows: • A Sleep Number® setting represents an ideal level of mattress comfort, firmness and support; and • You can only find your Sleep Number® setting on a Sleep Number Bed by Select Comfort™. Controlled Selling Environment Over 90% of our sales are generated through our company-controlled distribution channels – Retail, Direct Marketing and E-Commerce. Our nationwide chain of retail stores provides a unique mattress shopping experience and offers a relaxed environment designed to provide education on the importance of sleep and the products that best fit consumers’ needs. Controlling the selling process enables us to ensure that the unique benefits of our products are effectively communicated to consumers. Our multiple touch-points of service, including sales, delivery and post-sale service, provide several opportunities to communicate with our customers, reinforcing the sale and enabling us to understand and respond quickly to consumer trends and preferences. Integrated Business Process We are a vertically-integrated business from production through sales and delivery of our products, which allows us to control quality, cost, price and presentation. The modular design of our Sleep Number bed allows a just-in-time, build-to-order production process which requires minimal inventory in our stores and manufacturing plants, resulting in reduced working capital levels. This just-in-time production process also allows our stores to serve primarily as showrooms, without requiring significant product storage capacity. Growth Strategy For 2006, we ranked as the 5th largest mattress manufacturer according to the June 18, 2007 edition of Furniture/Today, with a 6% market share of industry revenue and 2% market share of industry units. We ranked as the leading U.S. bedding retailer, according to the Top-25 Bedding Retailers report in the August 13, 2007 edition of Furniture/Today. Our vision is to be a leading brand in the bedding industry. Building Brand Awareness Our most significant growth driver has been building brand awareness. The Sleep Number brand has been integrated into all of our sales channels and throughout our internal and external communication programs. We utilize a media mix that includes television, radio and print advertising in support of our Sleep Number marketing campaign with increasing use of Internet advertising and paid search in our media mix. We also sell to commercial partners which increases awareness of our brand through media exposure, trial sales and word-of-mouth. These commercial partners include the QVC television shopping channel, the luxury motor home market and Radisson Hotels and Resorts® in the U.S., Canada and the Caribbean. Expanding Distribution Over the long-term, we expect to operate over 600 company-owned stores in the U.S. with annual square footage growth increasing by 5% to 7% per year. We supplement our company-controlled distribution channels with sales through a limited number of leading home furnishings and specialty bedding retailers. In 2005, we expanded our distribution network outside the U.S. with a retail partner relationship in Canada. In 2007, the Canadian retail partner relationship grew to 127 doors. During 2007, we formed a strategic alliance with two Australian-based companies to manufacture and distribute Sleep Number beds and accessories in Australia and New Zealand. 3 Table of Contents Accelerating Innovation Our goal is to continue to lead the industry in innovative sleep products. We have historically introduced new features and benefits to our Sleep Number beds every two to three years, through a pipeline of research and development (“R&D”) activities. During 2007, we upgraded our entire line of bed models. We believe the new line represents the highest-quality, most technologically advanced beds we have ever produced. Our top-end 7000 and 9000 models were re-launched in June 2007. The new versions of our 3000, 4000 and 5000 models were introduced to all of our stores in July 2007. All of our new models emphasize enhanced comfort-layer materials, and several feature advancements in temperature balancing technology. Our 2008 innovation plans include the launch of two new mattress models which will fill in key price points in our product line-up and provide easier step-up opportunities for our sales professionals. Leveraging our Infrastructure Our vertically-integrated business model provides multiple sources for efficiency and leverage. Sustaining such performance over a multi-year period is based on expected scale efficiencies (fixed cost utilization) and cost containment initiatives. We also have an ongoing focus on productivity gains through a variety of programs, including the implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system in the second half of 2008, optimization of our new hub and spoke network, value engineering, marketing and sales initiatives, and a Six Sigma initiative to improve product and service quality. Our Products Mattress Sets At the end of 2007, we offered five different Sleep Number bed models through our U.S. company-owned channels, including the Sleep Number 3000, 4000, 5000, 7000 and 9000. Each bed model comes in standard mattress sizes, ranging from twin to king, as well as some specialty mattress sizes. Our bed models vary in features, functionality and price. As you move up the product line, the Sleep Number bed models offer enhanced features and benefits, including higher-quality fabrics, additional cushion and padding, higher overall mattress profiles, quieter Firmness Control Systems with additional functions, temperature balancing fabrics, and wireless remote controls as a standard feature. The contouring support of our Sleep Number beds are optimized when used with our specially designed, proprietary foundation. This durable foundation, used in place of a box spring, is a modular design that can be disassembled and easily moved through staircases, hallways and other tight spaces. Our U.S. mattress price points range from approximately $1,000 for the entry-level Sleep Number 3000 queen-size set (mattress and foundation) to $4,000 for the luxurious Sleep Number 9000 queen-size set. Our most popular model is the 5000 queen-size set which sells for approximately $2,000. These prices are subject to promotional offerings. Our unique product design allows us to ship our beds in a modular format to customers throughout the U.S. by United Parcel Service (“UPS”). For an additional fee, customers can take advantage of our home delivery service, which includes bed assembly and optional mattress removal services. We also manufacture our Sleep Number beds for distribution through our retail partners. Our retail partner beds have different model numbers or names, but have similar features and benefits, and sell for similar prices. Each of our Sleep Number beds (not including our Precision Comfort adjustable foundation) comes with a 30 night in-home trial and better night’s sleep guarantee, which allows customers 30 nights at home to make sure they are completely satisfied with the bed. The customer is responsible for the return shipping costs. Independent durability testing has shown our Sleep Number beds can withstand more than 20 years of simulated use, and each of our Sleep Number beds is backed by our 20-year limited warranty. Accessories In addition to our mattresses and foundations, we offer a line of accessory bedding products, including specialty pillows, mattress pads, comforters, sheets, bed foundations and leg options. The specialty pillows, available in a variety of sizes, materials and firmness levels, are designed to provide personalized comfort and better quality sleep for stomach, back or side 4 Table of Contents sleepers. We also market our Personal Warmth Collection™, a group of comforters and blankets designed to be warmer on one half of the bed than the other, accommodating varying warmth preferences among couples. Other Products and Services In 2003, we completed the roll-out of our Precision Comfort adjustable foundation to all of our company-owned retail stores. The adjustable foundation enables consumers to raise the head or foot of the bed, and to experience the comfort of massage, using a handheld remote control. In 2004, we introduced the Sleep Number SofaBed line into a select number of our stores in selected U.S. markets. The Sleep Number SofaBed features a queen-size Sleep Number mattress inside a sofa surround, which is available in a variety of fabrics or leather options. Sales Distribution Unlike traditional bedding manufacturers, which primarily sell through third-party retailers, over 90% of our net sales are through one of three company-controlled distribution channels – Retail, Direct Marketing and E-Commerce. These channels enable us to control the selling process to ensure that the unique benefits of our products are effectively presented to consumers. Our direct-to-consumer business model enables us to understand and respond quickly to consumer trends and preferences. Our retail stores accounted for 75% of our net sales in 2007. Average net sales per company-owned store were $1,318,000 in 2007 versus $626,000 in 2001, with average sales per square foot of $1,024 in 2007 versus $666 in 2001. New stores are expected to average in excess of $1,000,000 in net sales in the first year of operations. In 2007, 73% of our stores generated net sales of over $1,000,000. Our direct marketing call center and E-Commerce Web site provide national sales coverage, including markets not yet served by one of our retail stores, and accounted for 15% of our net sales in 2007. In addition, these channels provide a cost-effective way to market our products, are a source of information on our products and refer customers to our stores if there is one near the customer. Beginning in 2002, we supplemented our sales through semi-exclusive relationships with selected home furnishing retailers and specialty bedding retailers. At the end of 2007, our retail program included 10 retail partners in the U.S. and Canada with a total of 891 doors, up from 353 doors at the end of 2005. Each retail partner serves a unique geographic market, which enables us to increase sales and leverage our media spending to accelerate brand awareness. Marketing and Advertising Awareness among the broad consumer audience of our brand, product benefits and store locations has been our most significant opportunity for growth. The Sleep Number advertising campaign was introduced early in 2001 to support our retail stores in selected markets through our first comprehensive multi-media advertising campaign using prime-time TV, national cable television, infomercials, drive-time radio and newspaper advertisements. Since 2001, the Sleep Number brand positioning has been integrated into our marketing messages across all of our distribution channels, advertising vehicles and media types. We look to our direct response advertising on national cable TV as an economical means to generate leads for our stores. Through our dedicated call center, we are able to provide the inquiring consumer more information or send a video and brochure. Our total media spending was approximately $110 million in 2007, $105 million in 2006, and $89 million in 2005. Owners of Sleep Number beds purchased through company-controlled channels are members of our Comfort Club, our customer loyalty program designed primarily to increase referrals and repeat purchases. Each time a referred customer purchases a bed, the referring Comfort Club member receives a $50 coupon for purchase of our products, with increasing benefits for multiple referrals. In 2007, approximately 36,000 new customers bought beds after receiving referrals from our Comfort Club members, and existing owners bought approximately 32,000 additional beds. Qualified customers are offered revolving credit to finance purchases through a private-label consumer credit facility provided by GE Money Bank. Approximately 44% of our net sales during 2007 were financed by GE Money Bank. In 2005, we entered into an amended and restated agreement with GE Money Bank that extends this consumer credit arrangement through February 15, 2011, subject to earlier termination upon certain events and subject to automatic extensions. Under the terms of our agreement, GE Money Bank sets the minimum acceptable credit ratings, the interest rates, fees and all other terms and conditions of the customer accounts, including collection policies and procedures, and is the owner of the accounts. In 5 Table of Contents connection with all purchases financed under these arrangements, GE Money Bank pays us an amount equal to the total amount of such purchases, net of promotional related discounts, upon delivery to the customer. Consumers that do not qualify for credit under our agreement with GE Money Bank may apply for credit under a secondary program maintained by the company through another provider. Operations Manufacturing and Distribution We have two manufacturing plants, one located in Irmo, South Carolina, and the other in Salt Lake City, Utah, which distribute products in the U.S. and Canada. The manufacturing operations in South Carolina and Utah consist of quilting and sewing of the fabric covers for our beds and final assembly and packaging of mattresses and foundations. In addition, our electrical Firmness Control Systems are assembled in our Utah plant. We manufacture beds on a just-in-time basis to fulfill orders rather than stocking inventory, which enables us to maintain lower levels of finished goods inventory and operate with limited regional warehousing. Orders are currently shipped from our manufacturing facilities via UPS or through our company-controlled home delivery, assembly and mattress removal service, typically within 48 hours following order receipt. Orders are usually received by the customer within five to 14 days from the date of order. We obtain all of the raw materials and components used to produce our beds from outside sources. A number of components, including our proprietary air chambers, our proprietary blow-molded foundations, and various components for our Firmness Control Systems, as well as fabrics and zippers, are sourced from suppliers who currently serve as our sole source of supply for these components. Beginning in 2005, we initiated work on dual and alternate sourcing, successfully introducing a second source for printed circuit boards and certain foam and fiber components. We will continue working toward dual sourcing on targeted components. However, we believe we can obtain these raw materials and components from other sources of supply in the ordinary course of business, if necessary. Our proprietary air chambers are produced to our specifications by a sole source Eastern European supplier, which has been our sole source of supply of air chambers since 1994. Our agreement with this supplier runs through September 2011 and is thereafter subject to automatic annual renewal unless either party gives 365 days’ notice of its intention not to renew the agreement. We expect to continue this supplier relationship for the foreseeable future. Our proprietary blow-molded foundations are produced to our specifications by a single domestic supplier under an agreement that expires in December 2010. We expect to continue this supplier relationship for the foreseeable future. All of the suppliers that produce unique or proprietary products for us have in place either contingency or disaster recovery plans or redundant production capabilities in other locations in order to safeguard against any unforeseen disasters. We review these plans and sites on a regular basis to ensure the supplier’s ability to maintain uninterrupted supply of materials and components. Home Delivery Service Select Comfort’s home delivery, assembly and mattress removal service has contributed to improving the overall customer experience. Our home delivery technicians are Sleep Number bed owners who can articulate the benefits of the bed, reinforcing the sales process and ensuring satisfied customers. Approximately 60% of beds sold through our company-owned retail stores in 2007 were delivered by our full-service home delivery team. In 2003, we expanded the availability of our company-controlled delivery, assembly and removal services to all of our retail markets. In 2007, we continued improving our home delivery efficiency and service by consolidating over 100 individually managed cross-dock distribution locations into a new Hub and Spoke network organized around 13 regional hubs. Twelve of 13 hubs were operational as of December 2007. Customer Service We maintain an in-house customer service department staffed by customer service representatives who receive extensive training in sleep technology and all aspects of our products and operations. Our customer service representatives field customer calls and also interact with each of our retail stores to address customer questions and concerns. Our customer service team is part of our total quality process, facilitating early identification of emerging trends or issues. They coordinate with engineering and manufacturing to segment these issues, implement immediate solutions and provide inputs for long-term improvements to product and service design. 6 Table of Contents Research and Development Our research and development team continuously seeks to improve product performance and benefits based on sleep science. Through customer surveys and consumer focus groups, we seek feedback on a regular basis to help enhance our products. Since the introduction of our first bed, we have continued to improve and expand our product line, including new bed models, a quieter Firmness Control System, remote controls with digital settings, more luxurious fabrics and covers, new generations of foams and foundation systems. Our research and development expenses were $5.7 million in 2007, $4.7 million in 2006, and $2.2 million in 2005. Information Systems We use information technology systems to operate, analyze and manage our business, to reduce operating costs and to enhance our customers’ experience. Our major systems include an in-store point of sale system, a retail portal system, in-bound and out-bound telecommunications systems for direct marketing and customer service, E-Commerce systems, retail partner support systems, a data warehouse system and an enterprise resource planning system. These systems are comprised of both packaged applications licensed from various software vendors and internally developed programs. Our production data center and E-Commerce Web site have recently been relocated to our new state-of-the-art corporate headquarters with redundant environmental systems. We maintain a disaster recovery plan that is tested annually. During the second half of fiscal 2008, we plan on implementing an integrated suite of SAP®-based applications, including enterprise resources planning, retail store, customer relationship management, human capital management, strategic enterprise management, business intelligence and enterprise portal systems to replace most of our current systems. We believe this SAP® -based IT architecture, along with best-practices-based processes and greater utilization of off-the-shelf, highly integrated packaged solutions with minimal customization and enhancement, will provide greater flexibility and functionality for our growing and evolving business model and be less expensive to maintain over the long-term. Intellectual Property We hold various U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications regarding certain elements of the design and function of our products, including air control systems, remote control systems, air chamber features, border wall and corner piece systems, foundation systems, and features related to sofa sleepers with air mattresses, as well as other technology. We have 24 issued U.S. patents, expiring at various dates between March 2009 and June 2022, and five U.S. patent applications pending. We also hold 31 foreign patents and 9 foreign patent applications pending. Notwithstanding these patents and patent applications, we cannot ensure that these patent rights will provide substantial protection or that others will not be able to develop products that are similar to or competitive with our products. To our knowledge, no third party has asserted a claim against us alleging that any element of our product infringes or otherwise violates any intellectual property rights of any third party. “Select Comfort” and “Sleep Number” are trademarks registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. We have a number of other registered trademarks including our “Select Comfort” logo with the double arrow design, “Select Comfort Creator of the Sleep Number Bed,” “What’s Your Sleep Number?,” “Precision Comfort,” “The Sleep Number Bed by Select Comfort” (logo), “The Sleep Number Store by Select Comfort” (logo), “Comfort Club” and “Sleep Better on Air” and “LuxLayer.” U.S. applications are pending for a number of other marks. Several of these trademarks have been registered, or are the subject of pending applications, in various foreign countries. Each federally registered mark is renewable indefinitely as long as the mark remains in use. We are not aware of any material claims of infringement or other challenges asserted against our right to use these marks. Industry and Competition The U.S. bedding manufacturing industry is a mature and stable industry. According to the 2006 Annual Report by the International Sleep Products Association (ISPA), industry wholesale shipments of mattresses and foundations were estimated to be $6.8 billion in 2006, a 5% increase compared to $6.5 billion in 2005. We estimate that traditional innerspring mattresses represent approximately 77% of total U.S. bedding sales. Furniture/Today, a furniture industry trade publication, has ranked Select Comfort as the largest U.S. bedding retailer for seven consecutive years, most recently in its August 13, 2007 issue. According to the 2006 Annual Report by ISPA, since 1984 the industry has consistently demonstrated growth on a dollar basis, with a 0.3% decline in 2001 being the only exception. Over the 5-year, 10-year and 20-year periods ended 2006, the value of U.S. wholesale bedding shipments increased at compound annual growth rates of 8.1%, 7.3% and 6.5%, respectively. We believe that industry unit growth has been primarily driven by population growth, and an increase in the number of homes 7 Table of Contents (including secondary residences) and the increased size of homes. We believe growth in average wholesale prices resulted from a shift to both larger and higher quality beds, which are typically more expensive. The bedding industry is highly fragmented and very competitive. Participants in the bedding industry compete primarily on price, quality, brand name recognition, product availability and product performance, including the perceived levels of comfort and support provided by a mattress. There is a high degree of concentration among the three largest manufacturers of innerspring bedding with nationally recognized brand names, including Sealy, which also owns the Stearns & Foster brand name, Serta, and Simmons. Numerous other manufacturers, primarily operating on a regional or niche basis, serve the balance of the bedding market. Simmons and Sealy, as well as a number of smaller manufacturers, have offered air-bed products in recent years. Tempur-Pedic International, Inc., and a number of other mattress manufacturers, offer foam mattress products. Governmental Regulation and Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to federal and state consumer protection and other regulations relating to the bedding industry. These regulations vary among the jurisdictions in which we do business, but generally impose requirements as to the proper labeling of bedding merchandise. A portion of our net sales consists of refurbished products that are assembled in part from components returned to us from customers. These refurbished products must be properly labeled and marketed as refurbished products under applicable laws. Our sales of refurbished products are limited to approximately 24 states, as other states do not allow the sale of refurbished bedding products. The bedding industry is subject to federal fire retardancy standards developed by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, which became effective nationwide in July 2007. Compliance with these requirements has increased the cost and complexity of manufacturing our products, potentially reducing our manufacturing capacity. These regulations also result in higher product development costs as new products must undergo rigorous flammability testing. Our direct marketing and E-Commerce operations are or may become subject to various adopted or proposed federal and state “do not call” and “do not mail” list requirements, limiting our ability to market our products directly to consumers over the telephone, by e-mail or by regular mail. We are subject to emerging federal, state and foreign data privacy regulations related to the safeguarding of sensitive customer and employee data, which may limit our ability to maintain or use consumer or customer information in our business. We are subject to federal, state and foreign labor laws, including but not limited to laws relating to occupational health and safety, employee privacy, wages and hours, overtime pay, harassment and discrimination, equal opportunity, and employee leaves and benefits. We are subject to federal and state laws and regulations relating to pollution and environmental protection. We will also be subject to similar laws in foreign jurisdictions as we further expand distribution of our products internationally. Our retail pricing policies and practices are subject to antitrust regulations in the U.S., Canada, Australia, New Zealand and other jurisdictions where we may sell our products in the future. We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with each of these governmental regulations. We are not aware of any national or local provisions which have been enacted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, that have materially affected, or will materially affect, our net income or competitive position, or will result in material capital expenditures. During fiscal 2007, there were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities and no such material expenditures are anticipated. Customers No single customer accounts for 10% or more of our net sales, and the loss of any one customer would not have a material impact on our business. Seasonality Our business is modestly impacted by seasonal influences inherent in the U.S. bedding industry and general retail shopping patterns. The U.S. bedding industry generally experiences lower sales in the second quarter and increased sales during selected holiday or promotional periods. 8 Table of Contents Working Capital Our investment to open a new store is approximately $250,000, including inventory. We target new stores to be cash flow positive within 12 months with a payback of the initial cash investment in less than 24 months. Our stores break even on a four-wall cash flow basis with approximately $600,000 of annual net sales. Our four-wall cash flow is calculated as gross profit generated from store sales less store expenses, without deduction of depreciation expenses or indirect marketing expenses. The component nature of our products allows our stores to serve as product showrooms for our Sleep Number beds. This aspect of our business model allows us to maintain low inventory levels which enables us to operate with minimal working capital. We have historically generated sufficient cash flows to self-fund our growth through an accelerated cash-conversion cycle. In addition, our $100 million bank revolving line of credit is available for additional working capital needs or investment opportunities. However, we may elect to seek additional sources of capital to fund growth initiatives, or if a prolonged or more severe economic downturn impacts our ability to meet our financial covenants. Employees At December 29, 2007, we employed 3,247 persons, including 1,691 retail sales and support employees, 214 direct marketing and customer service employees, 1,007 manufacturing and logistics employees, and 335 management and administrative employees. Approximately 190 of our employees were employed on a part-time basis at December 29, 2007. Except for managerial employees and professional support staff, all of our employees are paid on an hourly basis plus commissions for sales associates. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. 9 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant William R. McLaughlin, 51, joined our company in March 2000 as President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. McLaughlin also served as Chairman of our Board of Directors from May 2004 to February 2008. From December 1988 to March 2000, Mr. McLaughlin served as an executive of PepsiCo Foods International, Inc., a snack food company and subsidiary of PepsiCo, Inc., in various capacities, including from September 1996 to March 2000 as President of Frito-Lay Europe, Middle East and Africa, and from June 1993 to June 1996 as President of Grupo Gamesa, S.A. de C.V., a cookie and flour company based in Mexico. Catherine B. Hall, 46, joined Select Comfort as Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer in November 2007. From 2005 to 2007, she served as Vice President, Marketing Programs and Advertising for Midas International, a provider of automotive services. From 2004 to 2005, Ms. Hall served as Midas International’s Director, Marketing Programs and Advertising. From 2001 to 2004, Ms. Hall served as Senior Vice President and Group Account Director for BBDO Chicago, an advertising agency. From 2000 to 2001, Ms. Hall was a Group Account Director at Agency.com, an internet strategy and web development firm. From 1987 to 2000, Ms. Hall held successive positions with Leo Burnett Company, a marketing communications company, most recently as Vice President, Account Director. Shelly R. Ibach, 48, joined Select Comfort as Senior Vice President, U.S. Sales - Company Owned Channels in April 2007. From 1982 to 2007, she held various leadership positions within Macy’s North, formerly Marshall Field’s Department Stores - Target Corporation. From 2004 to 2007, Ms. Ibach served as Senior Vice President and General Merchandise Manager for the Home division, within Macy’s North. Other key positions included Vice President - Divisional Merchandise Manager, Director of Planning and Regional Director of Stores. Mark A. Kimball, 49, has served as Senior Vice President, Legal, General Counsel and Secretary since August 2003. From July 2000 to August 2003, Mr. Kimball served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Legal, General Counsel and Secretary. From May 1999 to July 2000, Mr. Kimball served as our Senior Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary. For more than five years prior to joining us, Mr. Kimball was a partner in the law firm of Oppenheimer Wolff & Donnelly LLP practicing in the area of corporate finance. Ernest Park, 55, joined our company as Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer in May 2006. From November 2000 through March 2006, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer at Maytag Corporation. Mr. Park previously managed the global information technology function as Vice President and Chief Information Officer of a shared services organization at AlliedSignal, and later with Honeywell International, following AlliedSignal’s acquisition of Honeywell in 1999. He also served in various leadership capacities at Avnet Inc. from March 1980 through November 1996, culminating in his role as Corporate Vice President, Information Services Division. Mr. Park announced his plans to leave the company effective as of February 29, 2008. Scott F. Peterson, 48, has served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources since August 2003. From January 2002 to August 2003, Mr. Peterson served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources, for LifeTime Fitness, a proprietor of health and fitness clubs. From March 2000 through November 2001, he served as Chief People Officer for SimonDelivers.com, an internet-based grocery sales and delivery company. From 1990 through 2000, he served in a variety of capacities with The Pillsbury Company, a food manufacturer, most recently as Vice President, Human Resources, for the Bakeries and Foodservice Division. James C. Raabe, 47, has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 1999. From September 1997 to April 1999, Mr. Raabe served as our Controller. From May 1992 to September 1997, he served as Vice President – Finance of ValueRx, Inc., a pharmacy benefit management provider. Mr. Raabe held various positions with KPMG LLP from August 1982 to May 1992. Kathryn V. Roedel, 47, joined our company as Senior Vice President, Global Supply Chain in April 2005. From 1983 to 2005, she held leadership positions within two divisions of General Electric Company, in Sourcing, Manufacturing, Quality and Service. From 2003 to March 2005, Ms. Roedel served as the General Manager, Global Supply Chain Strategy for GE Medical Systems. Other key positions included General Manager, Global Quality and Six Sigma; Vice President – Technical Operations and Director/Vice President – Quality Programs for GE Clinical Services, a division of GE Medical Systems. Wendy L. Schoppert, 41, joined our company as Senior Vice President and General Manager – New Channel Development & Strategy in April 2005 and effective January 2007, became our Senior Vice President – International. From 2002 to March 2005, Ms. Schoppert led various departments within U.S. Bancorp Asset Management, most recently serving as Head of Private Asset Management and Marketing. From 1996 to 2000, she held several positions with America West Holdings Corporation, including Vice President of America West Vacations and head of the airline’s Reservations division. Prior to 1996, Ms. Schoppert held various finance-related positions at both Northwest Airlines and American Airlines. In February 2008, Ms. Schoppert also assumed the responsibilities of Chief Information Officer for the company. 10 Table of Contents Available Information We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and its rules and regulations. The Exchange Act requires us to file reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Copies of our reports, proxy statements and other information can be read and copied at: SEC Public Reference Room 100 F Street NE Washington, D.C. 20549 Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a Web site that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. These materials may be obtained electronically by accessing the SEC’s home page at http://www.sec.gov. Our corporate Internet Web site is http://www.selectcomfort.com. Through a link to a third-party content provider, our corporate Web site provides free access to our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing with the SEC. These documents are posted on our Web site at www.selectcomfort.com — select the “About Select Comfort” link and then the “Investor Relations” link. The information contained on our Web site or connected to our Web site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this report. We also make available, free of charge on our Web site, the charters of the Audit Committee, Management Development and Compensation Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and Finance Committee as well as our Code of Business Conduct (including any amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of our Code of Business Conduct) adopted by our Board. These documents are posted on our Web site — select the “Investor Relations” link and then the “Corporate Governance” link. Copies of any of the above referenced information will also be made available, free of charge, upon written request to: Select Comfort Corporation Investor Relations Department 9800 59th Avenue North Minneapolis, MN 55442 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future growth and profitability will depend on a number of factors. After more than five consecutive years of growth in both sales and profitability through fiscal 2006, our sales and profitability declined in 2007 versus the prior year. We may not be able to regain growth in sales or growth in profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in future periods. Our future growth and profitability will depend upon a number of factors, including but not limited to: • Marketing Effectiveness and Efficiency -- the effectiveness of our marketing messages and the efficiency of our advertising expenditures and other marketing programs in building product and brand awareness, driving traffic to our points of sale and increasing sales; • Consumer Acceptance -- the level of consumer acceptance of our products, new product offerings and brand image; • Need for Continuous Product Improvement -- our ability to continuously improve our products to offer new and enhanced consumer benefits, better quality and reduced costs; • Competition -- the level of competition in the mattress industry and our ability to successfully identify and respond to emerging and competitive trends in the mattress industry; • Execution of Our Retail Distribution Strategy -- our ability to execute our retail store distribution strategy, including increasing sales and profitability through our existing stores, securing suitable and cost-effective locations for additional retail stores and cost-effectively closing under-performing store locations; • International Growth -- our ability to cost-effectively execute plans to expand our distribution internationally; • Consumer Credit – the availability of consumer credit and our ability to provide cost-effective consumer credit options; • Sources of Supply -- our ability to secure adequate sources of supply at reasonable cost, especially considering our single sources of supply for some components and just-in-time manufacturing processes, as well as potential shortages of commodities; • Inflationary Pressures -- rising fuel and commodity costs, as well as fluctuating currency rates and increasing industry regulatory requirements, which may increase our cost of goods and may adversely impact our profitability or our ability to maintain sales volumes to the extent that we choose to increase prices; • Impact of Federal Flame Retardancy Standards -- new federal flame retardancy standards for mattress products effective since mid-2007, which have added compliance costs to our business and have added risks of non-compliance, which could disrupt our business; • Management Information Systems -- our current management information systems, which may not adequately meet the requirements of our evolving business, and our ability to successfully implement our planned SAP®-based enterprise-wide information technology architecture; • Retention of Senior Leadership and other Key Employees -- our ability to retain senior leadership and other key employees, including qualified retail store management and sales professionals, in the wake of recent business performance that has not met our expectations; • General Economic Conditions and Consumer Confidence -- adverse trends in general economic conditions, including in particular the housing market, retail trends and consumer confidence, and the possibility of an economic recession; and • Global Events -- global events, such as terrorist attacks or a pandemic outbreak, or the threat of such events. We may not be successful in executing our growth strategy or in regaining growth in sales or growth in profitability. Failure to successfully execute any material part of our strategic plan or growth strategy could harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness of our marketing messages and the efficiency of our advertising expenditures and other marketing programs in generating consumer awareness and sales of our products. We are highly dependent on the effectiveness of our marketing messages and the efficiency of our advertising expenditures (which were approximately $110 million in 2007, $105 million in 2006, $89 million in 2005, $79 million in 2004, and $60 million in 2003) in generating consumer awareness and sales of our products. In recent periods, including in particular 2007, our marketing messages have not been as effective as in prior periods. If our marketing messages are ineffective or our advertising expenditures and other marketing programs are inefficient in creating awareness of our products and brand name, driving consumer traffic to our points of distribution and motivating consumers to purchase our products, our sales, profitability and financial condition may be adversely impacted. Our integrated marketing program depends in part on national radio personalities and spokespersons, including Paul Harvey, Rush Limbaugh and Lindsay Wagner and other nationally known personalities. The loss of these endorsements, or any reduction in the effectiveness of these endorsements, or our inability to obtain additional effective endorsements, could adversely affect our sales, profitability and financial condition. Our future growth and profitability will depend in part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our internet-based advertising programs and upon the prominence of our Web site URLs on internet search engine results. We believe that consumers are increasingly using the internet as a part of their shopping experience, both to conduct pre-purchase research, particularly with respect to high end consumer durables, as well as to purchase products. Consumers will typically use one of a small number of internet search engines to research products. These search engines may provide both natural search results and purchased listings for particular key words. In some cases, it may be difficult or impossible to determine how these search engines work, particularly in the area of natural search, and therefore how to optimize placement on those search engines for our Web site URLs and other positive sites for consumers who may be searching for our products or for mattress products or retailers generally. Some of these search engines may permit competitors to bid on our trademarks to obtain high placement in search results when consumers use our trademarks to seek information regarding our products, which may cause confusion among consumers and adversely impact our sales. Some of our competitors may use our trademarks and/or publish false or misleading information on the internet regarding our products or their own products, which may also cause confusion among consumers and adversely impact our sales. In addition, consumers or others may post negative information regarding our products or our company on internet sites or blogs, which could adversely impact our sales. As a result, our future growth and profitability will depend in part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our on-line advertising and search optimization programs in generating consumer awareness and sales of our products, and upon our ability to prevent competitors from misusing or infringing our trademarks or publishing false or misleading information regarding our products or their own products. If we are not successful in these efforts, our business, reputation, sales, profitability and financial condition may be adversely impacted. In addition, if our Web site becomes unavailable for a significant period of time due to failure of our information technology systems or the Internet, our sales, profitability and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our products represent a significant departure from traditional innerspring mattresses and the failure of our products to achieve market acceptance would harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. We estimate that innerspring mattress sales represent approximately 77% or more of all mattress sales. Our air chamber technology represents a significant departure from traditional innerspring mattresses. Because no established market for adjustable firmness mattress products existed prior to the introduction of our products in 1988, we faced the challenge of establishing the viability of this market, as well as gaining widespread acceptance of our products. The market for adjustable firmness mattresses is now evolving and our future success will depend upon both the continued growth of this market and increased consumer acceptance of our products. The failure of our products to achieve greater consumer acceptance for any reason would harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. If we are unable to enhance our existing products and develop and market new products that respond to customer needs and achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to regain growth in sales or growth in profitability. One of our growth strategies is to continue to lead our industry in product innovation and sleep expertise by enhancing existing products and by developing and marketing new products that deliver personalized comfort and better sleep. We may not be successful in developing or marketing enhanced or new products that will receive acceptance in the marketplace. Further, the resulting level of sales from any of our enhanced or new products may not justify the costs associated with the development 13 Table of Contents and marketing. Any failure to continue to develop and market enhanced or new products in a cost-effective manner could harm our ability to regain growth in sales or growth in profitability. The mattress industry is highly competitive. Our business could be harmed by existing competitive pressures or from one or more new entrants into the market. Our Sleep Number beds compete with a number of different types of mattress alternatives, including standard innerspring mattresses, foam mattresses, waterbeds, futons and other air-supported mattress products sold through a variety of channels, including home furnishings stores, specialty mattress stores, department stores, mass merchants, wholesale clubs, telemarketing programs, television infomercials and catalogs. The mattress industry is characterized by a high degree of concentration among the three largest manufacturers of innerspring mattresses with nationally recognized brand names, including Sealy, which also owns the Stearns & Foster brand, Serta and Simmons. Numerous other manufacturers, primarily operating on a regional or niche basis, serve the balance of the mattress market. Tempur-Pedic International, Inc. and other companies compete in the mattress industry with foam mattress products. A number of mattress manufacturers, including Sealy and Simmons, as well as a number of smaller manufacturers, including low-cost foreign manufacturers, have offered air beds that compete with our products. We believe that many of our competitors, including in particular the three largest innerspring mattress manufacturers and Tempur-Pedic, have greater financial, marketing and manufacturing resources and better brand name recognition than we do and sell products through broader and more established distribution channels. Our stores and other company-controlled distribution channels compete with other retailers who often provide a wider selection of mattress alternatives than we offer through our channels of distribution, which may place our channels of distribution at a competitive disadvantage. These manufacturing and retailing competitors, or new entrants into the market, may compete aggressively and gain market share with existing and new mattress products, and may pursue or expand their presence in the air bed segment of the market. Some competitors may engage in aggressive advertising strategies that may include false or misleading claims about competitive products and/or our products. Any such competition could inhibit our ability to retain or increase market share, inhibit our ability to maintain or increase prices and reduce our margins, which could harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon our ability to execute our retail store distribution strategy, including increasing sales and profitability through our existing company-controlled stores, which carry significant fixed costs. If we are unable to regain growth in sales through our company-controlled stores, we may be required to incur significant costs to close underperforming stores, which could harm our profitability and financial condition. Our company-controlled retail store distribution channel is our largest distribution channel and represents our largest opportunity for growth in sales and profitability. After several years of consistent growth in comparable-store sales results through fiscal 2006, in 2007 we experienced a decline of 11% in our comparable stores sales versus 2006. Our comparable-store sales and other operating results may fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Many factors affect our comparable-store sales and other operating results and may contribute to fluctuations or declines in these results in the future, including but not limited to: • The effectiveness of our marketing messages and the efficiency of our advertising expenditures; • Consumer acceptance of our existing products, new product offerings and brand image; • Consumer shopping trends, including mall traffic and internet shopping trends; • Our ability to successfully hire, train, motivate and retain store-level sales professionals and managers; • The level and effectiveness of competitive activity; • The availability of cost-effective consumer credit options through our third-party providers; • The growth of our other distribution channels, including in particular the wholesale distribution of our products through mattress retailers into markets with existing company-controlled retail stores; • General economic conditions, including in particular the housing market, retail trends and consumer confidence; and • Global events, such as terrorist attacks or a pandemic outbreak, or the threat of such events. 14 Table of Contents Future fluctuations or decreases in our comparable-store sales or other operating results could harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. We may also be required to incur significant costs to close underperforming stores if we are unable to regain growth in sales through our company-controlled stores. In addition, failure to regain growth in comparable-store sales or other operating results may disappoint securities analysts or investors and result in a decline in our stock price. We may seek to obtain additional capital, which could adversely impact our profitability and financial condition, or which could be dilutive to our shareholders. As of December 29, 2007, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable debt securities of $7.3 million and $37.9 million in outstanding borrowings against our $100 million line of credit. We currently expect cash generated from operations and our existing credit facility provide sufficient liquidity for our operating and capital needs. However, a severe or prolonged downturn in macroeconomic factors or in our operating results may affect our ability to maintain compliance with financial covenants under our credit facility, potentially impacting our cost of borrowings and the availability of funds under the credit facility. In such an event, we may need to seek additional capital through the issuance of debt or equity securities. Alternatively, we may elect to seek additional capital through the issuance of debt or equity securities to fund strategic growth initiatives, or in anticipation of a deeper, more prolonged downturn in our business, whether due to macroeconomic factors or otherwise. The issuance of any additional debt could adversely impact our profitability and financial condition. The issuance of additional equity securities could be dilutive to our existing shareholders. We are highly dependent on discretionary consumer spending. Adverse trends in general economic conditions, including in particular the housing market, retail shopping patterns and consumer confidence, and the possibility of an economic recession, may adversely affect our sales, profitability and financial condition. The success of our business models depends to a significant extent upon discretionary consumer spending, which is subject to a number of factors, including without limitation general economic conditions, consumer confidence, the housing market, employment levels, business conditions, interest rates, availability of credit, inflation and taxation. Adverse trends in any of these economic indicators may adversely affect our sales, profitability and financial condition. Also, because a high percentage of our net sales are made on credit, any adverse impact on the availability of consumer credit or any increase in interest rates may adversely affect our sales, profitability and financial condition. We are also dependent upon the continued popularity of malls as shopping destinations and the ability of mall anchor tenants and other attractions to generate customer traffic for our retail stores. Any decrease in mall traffic could adversely affect our sales, profitability and financial condition. We have established wholesale relationships with a limited number of mattress retailers and with the QVC shopping channel. These relationships may not yield the benefits we expect and may adversely impact sales through our company-controlled distribution channels. The loss of a significant wholesale account or the loss of distribution through QVC could adversely impact our sales, profitability and financial condition. An important element of our growth strategy has been expansion of profitable distribution through our existing company-controlled distribution channels and by increasing opportunities for consumers to become aware of, and to purchase, our products through additional points of distribution. We have only recently established wholesale relationships with a limited number of mattress retailers and with the QVC shopping channel and therefore have limited wholesale experience. Our wholesale relationships may not result in the intended benefits of leveraging our advertising spending and increasing our brand awareness, sales and overall market acceptance of our products. Our wholesale distribution may also adversely impact sales through our company-controlled distribution channels. The gross margin from wholesale sales is also less than the gross margin we generate in our company-controlled channels. The loss of a significant wholesale account or the loss of distribution through QVC could adversely impact our sales, profitability and financial condition. Our business is subject to seasonal influences and a substantial portion of our net sales is often realized in the last month or last few weeks of a quarter, due in part to our promotional schedule and commission structure. As our marketing expenditures are largely based on our expectations of future customer inquiries and net sales, and cannot be adjusted quickly, a failure to meet these expectations may harm our profitability and financial condition. Our business is subject to some seasonal influences, with typically lower sales in the second quarter, and increased sales during selected holiday or promotional periods. Furthermore, a substantial portion of our sales is often realized in the last month or last few weeks of a quarter, due in part to our promotional schedule and commission structure. The level of our sales and marketing expenses and new store opening costs is based, in significant part, on our expectations of future customer inquiries and net sales and cannot be adjusted quickly. If there is a shortfall in expected net sales or in the conversion rate of customer inquiries, we may be unable to adjust our spending in a timely manner and our sales, profitability and financial condition may be harmed. 15 Table of Contents Significant and unexpected return rates under our 30-night trial period and warranty claims under our 20-year limited warranty on our beds, in excess of our returns and warranty reserves, could harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. Part of our marketing and advertising strategy focuses on providing a 30-night trial in which customers may return their beds and obtain a refund of the purchase price if they are not fully satisfied with our product. Return rates may not remain within acceptable levels. An unexpected increase in return rates could harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. We also provide our customers with a 20-year limited warranty on our beds. We may receive significant and unexpected claims under these warranty obligations that could exceed our warranty reserves. Warranty claims in excess of our warranty reserves could harm our profitability and financial condition. We have plans to expand our distribution internationally, which presents some additional risks to our business. To date, the vast majority of our sales have been made in the U.S. and we have sold only very minimal quantities of products in foreign jurisdictions. In late 2005 we began to distribute our products in Canada through an independent retailer. In late 2007 we entered into relationships with an Australian-based manufacturer and an Australian-based retailer to begin distribution of Sleep Number beds in Australia and New Zealand. We plan to pursue distribution of our products in some other foreign countries in the near future. Expansion of our distribution to foreign jurisdictions, and our lack of experience in international distribution, present some risks to our business, including without limitation the need to build awareness of our products and brand in new markets, the need to gain market acceptance for new products that represent a significant departure from traditional bedding products, logistical and systems complexities, different levels of protection of our intellectual property, language and cultural differences, the need to comply with additional and different regulatory requirements, foreign currency exchange risks and political instability. Although several members of our senior management team have significant experience in international distribution of consumer goods, as a company our experience in this area is limited. We plan to invest in our international infrastructure in advance of sales in international jurisdictions which may adversely impact our overall profitability. If we are unable to achieve consumer awareness and market acceptance for our products in foreign jurisdictions, we may not be able to achieve sufficient sales and profitability in our international operations to justify the investment. We utilize “just-in-time” manufacturing processes with minimal levels of raw materials, work in process and finished goods inventories, which could leave us vulnerable to shortages of supply of key components. Any such shortage could result in our inability to satisfy consumer demand for our products in a timely manner and lost sales, which could harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. We generally assemble our products after we receive orders from customers utilizing “just-in-time” manufacturing processes. Lead times for ordered components may vary significantly and depend upon a variety of factors, such as the location of the supplier, the complexity in manufacturing the component and general demand for the component. Some of our components, including our air chambers, have relatively longer lead times. We generally maintain minimal levels of raw materials, work in process and finished goods inventories, except for our air chambers, of which we generally carry approximately six weeks of inventory. As a result, an unexpected shortage of supply of key components used to manufacture our products, or an unexpected and significant increase in the demand for our products, could lead to inadequate inventory and delays in shipping our beds to customers. Any such delays could result in lost sales, which could harm our profitability and financial condition. Damage to either of our manufacturing facilities could increase our costs of doing business or lead to delays in shipping our beds, which could result in increased returns and adversely affect future sales. We have two manufacturing plants, which are located in Irmo, South Carolina and in Salt Lake City, Utah. Unlike other mattress manufacturers, we generally manufacture beds to fulfill orders rather than stocking finished goods inventory. Therefore, the destruction or shutting down of either of our manufacturing facilities for a significant period of time as a result of fire, explosion, act of war or terrorism, flood, hurricane, tornado, earthquake, lightning or other natural disaster could increase our costs of doing business and lead to delays in shipping our beds to customers. Such delays could result in increased returns and adversely affect future sales, which could harm our profitability and financial condition. Due to our make-to-order business model, these adverse consequences to our business may be greater for our company than with other mattress manufacturers. 16 Table of Contents We rely upon several key suppliers that are, in some instances, the only source of supply currently used by the company for particular materials or components. The failure of one or more of these suppliers or our other key suppliers to supply materials or components for our products on a timely basis, or a material change in the purchase terms for the materials or components, could harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. We currently obtain all of the materials and components used to produce our beds from outside sources. In several cases, including our proprietary air chambers, our proprietary blow-molded foundations, the wood foundations sold to our wholesale and hospitality channels, our adjustable foundations, various components for our Firmness Control Systems, as well as fabrics and zippers, we have chosen to obtain these materials and components from suppliers who serve as the only source of supply used by the company at this time. While we believe that these materials and components, or suitable replacements, could be obtained from other sources of supply, in the event that any of the company’s current suppliers became unable to supply the relevant materials or components for any reason, and alternatives were not readily available from other sources of supply, our sales, profitability and financial condition could be harmed. If our relationship with either the supplier of our air chambers or the supplier of our blow-molded foundations is terminated, we could have difficulty in replacing these sources since there are relatively few other suppliers capable of manufacturing these components. We purchase some of our materials and components through purchase orders and do not have long-term purchase agreements with, or other contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access from, our suppliers, except for the suppliers of our air chambers, blow-molded foundations, foam, circuit boards and various components used for our covers, including fiber, fabrics, thread and tick. If prices for our key materials or components increase and we are unable to achieve offsetting savings through value engineering or increased productivity or we are unable to increase prices to our customers, our profitability and financial condition may be harmed. The loss of one or more of our key suppliers, the failure of one or more of our key suppliers to supply materials or components on a timely basis, or a material change in the purchase terms for our components could harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. Increases in commodity prices, component costs and/or delivery costs could harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. Recently there have been significant increases or volatility in the prices of certain commodities, including but not limited to fuel, oil, natural gas, rubber, cotton, plastic resin, steel and chemical ingredients used to produce foam. Increases in prices of these commodities may result in significant cost increases for our raw materials and product components, as well as increases in the cost of delivering our products to our customers. To the extent we are unable to offset any such increased costs through value engineering and similar initiatives underway, or through price increases, our profitability and financial condition may be adversely impacted. If we choose to increase prices to offset the increased costs, our unit sales volumes could be adversely impacted. The foreign manufacturing of our air chambers and some of our other components involves risks that could increase our costs, lead to inadequate inventory levels or delays in shipping beds to our customers, which could harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. Since our air chambers and some of our other components are manufactured outside the United States, our operations could be harmed by the risks associated with foreign sourcing of materials, including but not limited to: • Political instability resulting in disruption of trade; • Existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of certain types of goods that may be imported into the United States or increase the cost of such goods; • Disruptions in transportation that could be caused by a variety of factors including acts of terrorism, shipping delays, foreign or domestic dock strikes, customs inspections or other factors; • Any significant fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies; and • Economic uncertainties, including inflation. These factors could increase our costs of doing business with foreign suppliers, lead to inadequate inventory levels or delays in shipping beds to our customers, which could harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. If any of these or other factors were to render the conduct of any of our foreign suppliers’ businesses more difficult or impractical, we may have difficulty sourcing key components of our products, which could adversely affect our sales, profitability and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents We depend upon UPS and other carriers to deliver some of our products to customers on a timely and cost-effective basis. Any significant delay in deliveries to our customers could lead to increased returns and cause us to lose future sales. Any increase in freight charges could increase our costs of doing business and harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. Historically, we have relied to a significant extent on UPS for delivery of our products to customers. For a significant portion of the third quarter of 1997, UPS was unable to deliver our products within acceptable time periods due to a labor strike, causing delays in deliveries to customers and requiring us to use alternative carriers. UPS may not be able to avert labor difficulties in the future or may otherwise experience difficulties in meeting our requirements in the future. From 2000 to 2003, we demonstrated an ability to shift a portion of our product delivery business to FedEx, as necessary. In addition, we either provide directly, or contract with a third party to provide, in-home delivery, assembly and mattress removal services, and in 2003 expanded the availability of this service to all of our retail stores across the country. Despite these alternative carriers, if UPS were to experience difficulties in meeting our requirements we may not be able to deliver products to all of our customers on a timely or cost-effective basis through any one or more of these or other alternative carriers. Any significant delay in deliveries to our customers could lead to increased returns and cause us to lose future sales. Any increase in freight charges could increase our costs of doing business and harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. More than one-third of our net sales are financed by a third party. The termination of our agreement with this third party, any material change to the terms of our agreement with this third party or in the availability or terms of credit offered to our customers by this third party, or any delay in securing replacement credit sources, could harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. In December 2005 we entered into an amended and restated agreement under which GE Money Bank offers our qualified customers a revolving credit arrangement to finance purchases from us. This agreement extends through February 15, 2011, subject to earlier termination upon certain events and subject to automatic extensions. Under this agreement, GE Money Bank sets the minimum acceptable credit ratings, the interest rates, fees and all other terms and conditions of the customer accounts, including collection policies and procedures, and is the owner of the accounts. Any increase by GE Money Bank in the minimum customer credit ratings necessary to qualify for credit could adversely impact our sales by decreasing the number of customers who can finance purchases. We are liable to GE Money Bank for charge-backs arising out of (i) breach of our warranties relating to the underlying sale transaction, (ii) defective products or (iii) our failure to comply with applicable operating procedures under the facility. We are not liable to GE Money Bank for losses arising out of our customers’ credit defaults. Approximately 44% of our net sales during 2007 were financed by GE Money Bank. Consumers that do not qualify for credit under our agreement with GE Money Bank may apply for credit under a secondary program maintained by the company through another provider. Termination of our agreement with GE Money Bank or with our secondary provider, any material change to the terms of our agreement with either of these providers, or in the availability or terms of credit for our customers from these providers, or any delay in securing replacement credit sources, could harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. Our current management information systems may not be adequate to support our growth strategy. We have recently undertaken plans to implement an SAP®-based enterprise-wide information technology architecture. We currently expect this project to be completed in the second half of 2008 and we expect to incur significant increases in expenses and capital expenditures to complete this project. This project may take longer and may require more resources to implement than anticipated, may cause distraction of key personnel, may cause disruptions to our business, and may not ultimately provide the benefits we anticipate. Any of these outcomes could impair our ability to achieve critical strategic initiatives and could harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. We depend upon our management information systems for many aspects of our business. Our current information systems architecture includes some off-the-shelf programs as well as some key software that has been developed by our own programmers, which is not easily modified or integrated with other software and systems and limits the flexibility and scalability of our information systems. Our business will be adversely affected if our management information systems are disrupted or if we are unable to improve, upgrade, integrate or expand our systems as we execute our growth strategy. In addition, any failure of our systems and processes to adequately protect customer information from theft or loss could adversely impact our business, reputation, sales, profitability and financial condition. We have recently undertaken plans to implement an integrated suite of SAP®-based applications including enterprise resources planning, retail store, customer relationship management, human capital management, strategic enterprise management, business intelligence and enterprise portal systems to replace most of our current systems. We believe this SAP®-based IT 18 Table of Contents architecture, along with best-practices-based processes and higher concentrations of off-the-shelf, packaged solutions, will provide greater flexibility and functionality for our growing and evolving business model and be less expensive to maintain over the long-term. This project may take longer and may require more resources to implement than anticipated, may cause distraction of key personnel, may cause disruptions to our business, and may not ultimately provide the benefits we anticipate. Any of these outcomes could impair our ability to achieve critical strategic initiatives and could harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. We are subject to a wide variety of government regulations. Any failure to comply with any of these regulations could harm our business, reputation, sales, profitability and financial condition. We may be required to incur significant expenses or to modify our operations in order to ensure compliance with these regulations. We are subject to a wide variety of government regulations relating to the bedding industry or to various aspects of our business and operations, including without limitation: • Regulations relating to the proper labeling of bedding merchandise and other aspects of product handling and sale; • State regulations related to the proper labeling and sale of bedding products produced in part from refurbished components; • Federal and state flammability standards applicable generally to mattresses and mattress and foundation sets; • Environmental regulations; • Consumer protection and data privacy regulations; • Regulations related to marketing and advertising claims; • Various federal and state “do not call” or “do not mail” list requirements; • Federal, state and foreign labor laws, including but not limited to laws relating to occupational health and safety, employee privacy, wages and hours, overtime pay, harassment and discrimination, equal opportunity, and employee leaves and benefits; • Antitrust regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions where we may sell our products in the future; • Import and export regulations; • Federal and state tax laws; and • Federal and state securities laws. Although we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with these regulations and have implemented a variety of measures to promote continuing compliance, regulations may change over time and we may be required to incur expenses and/or to modify our operations in order to ensure compliance with these regulations, which could harm our profitability and financial condition. If we are found to be in violation of any of the foregoing laws or regulations, we could become subject to fines, penalties, damages or other sanctions, as well as potential adverse public relations, which could adversely impact our business, reputation, sales, profitability and financial condition. All mattresses and mattress and foundation sets, including ours, became subject to new federal flammability standards and related regulations in July 2007. Compliance with these regulations has increased our product costs, has required modifications to our systems and operations and may increase the risk of disruptions to our business due to ongoing testing to assure compliance or regulatory inspections. The federal Consumer Product Safety Commission adopted a new flammability standard and related regulations which became effective nationwide in July 2007 for mattresses and mattress and foundation sets. Compliance with these requirements has resulted in higher materials and manufacturing costs for our products, and has required modifications to our information systems and business operations, further increasing our costs. To the extent we are unable to offset increased costs through 19 Table of Contents value engineering and similar initiatives, or through price increases, our profitability may be adversely impacted. If we choose to increase prices to offset the increased costs, our unit sales volumes could be adversely impacted. Compliance also requires more complicated manufacturing processes, which may reduce our manufacturing capacity and may require us to expand our manufacturing capacity sooner than otherwise anticipated. The new regulations require manufacturers to implement quality assurance programs and encourage manufacturers to conduct random testing of products. The new regulations also require maintenance and retention of compliance documentation. These quality assurance and documentation requirements are costly to implement and maintain. If any product testing yields results indicating that any of our products may not meet the flammability standard, or if we obtain test results or other evidence that any of our products may fail to meet the standard or that a material or process used in manufacturing could affect the test performance of our product, we may be required to temporarily cease production and distribution and/or to recall products from the field, and we may be subject to fines or penalties, any of which outcomes could harm our business, reputation, sales, profitability and financial condition. We may also face increased risks of disruptions to our business caused by regulatory inspections. We may face exposure to product liability claims. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of any of our products is alleged to have resulted in personal injury or property damage. In the event that any of our products proves to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products. In 2004, we experienced increased returns and adverse impacts on sales as a result of media reports related to the alleged propensity of our products to develop mold. We may experience material increases in returns and material adverse impacts on sales in the event any similar media reports were to occur in the future. We maintain insurance against product liability claims, but such coverage may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us and may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. A successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage, or any claim or product recall that results in significant adverse publicity against us, may have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may be unable to prevent other companies from using our technology in competitive products. We own various U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications related to certain elements of the design and function of our beds and related products. We also own several registered and unregistered trademarks and trademark applications, including in particular our Select Comfort and Sleep Number trademarks, which we believe have significant value and are important to the marketing of our products to customers. In addition to patents and trademarks, we rely upon copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights and we have implemented several measures to protect our intellectual property and confidential information contained in our products, such as entering into assignment of invention and nondisclosure agreements with certain of our employees. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, to a significant extent, upon our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our owned intellectual property and confidential information. Our intellectual property rights may not provide substantial protection against infringement or piracy and may be circumvented by our competitors. Our protective measures may not protect our intellectual property rights or confidential information or prevent our competitors from developing and marketing products that are similar to or competitive with our beds or other products. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights and confidential information to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may be unable to prevent other companies from using our technology or trademarks in connection with competitive products, which could adversely affect our sales, profitability and financial condition. Intellectual property litigation, which could result in substantial costs to us and the diversion of significant time and effort by our executive management, may be necessary to enforce our patents and trademarks and to protect our trade secrets and proprietary technology. We may not have the financial resources necessary to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights. We are not aware of any material intellectual property infringement or invalidity claims that may be asserted against us, however, it is possible that third parties, including competitors, may successfully assert such claims. The cost of defending such claims, or any resulting liability, or any failure to obtain necessary licenses on reasonable terms, may adversely impact our sales, profitability and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents The loss of the services of any members of our executive management team could adversely impact our ability to execute our business strategy and growth initiatives and could harm our business. We are currently dependent upon the continued services, ability and experience of our executive management team, particularly William R. McLaughlin, our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. McLaughlin or any other member of our executive management team could have an adverse effect on our ability to execute our business strategy and growth initiatives and on our sales, profitability and financial condition. We do not maintain any key person life insurance on any members of our executive management team. Our future growth and success will also depend upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate other qualified personnel. Additional terrorist attacks in the United States or against U.S. targets or actual or threats of war or the escalation of current hostilities involving the United States or its allies could adversely impact our sales, profitability, financial condition or stock price in unpredictable ways. Additional terrorist attacks in the United States or against U.S. targets, or threats of war or the escalation of current hostilities involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions impacting our domestic or foreign suppliers of components of our products, may impact our operations, including, but not limited to, causing delays or losses in the delivery of merchandise to us and decreased sales of our products. These events could cause an increase in oil or other commodity prices, which could adversely affect our materials or transportation costs, including delivery of our products to customers. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. and worldwide financial markets. These events also could cause an economic recession in the United States or abroad. Any of these occurrences could have an adverse impact on our sales, profitability and financial condition, and may result in volatility of our stock price. An outbreak of Avian Flu or a pandemic, or the threat of a pandemic, may adversely impact our ability to produce and deliver our products or may adversely impact consumer demand. Concern has grown recently over the possibility of a significant or global outbreak of avian flu or a similar pandemic. A significant outbreak of avian flu, or a similar pandemic, or even a perceived threat of such an outbreak, could cause significant disruptions to our supply chain, manufacturing capability and distribution system that could adversely impact our ability to produce and deliver products, which could result in a loss of sales and adversely impact on our profitability and financial condition. Similarly, such events could adversely impact consumer confidence and consumer demand generally, which could adversely impact our sales, profitability and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 Table of Contents 