Item 1A. Risk Factors The statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. If any of the following risks actually occur, they may materially harm our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flow. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we think are immaterial may also materially harm our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flow. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business Our lack of earnings history could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our payment obligations, and if we are unable to generate funds or obtain funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop and market our present and potential products. Our liquidity needs have typically arisen from the funding of our research and development program and the launch of our new products, such as ViziLite® Plus, working capital and debt service requirements, and strategic initiatives. In the past, we have met these cash requirements through our cash and cash equivalents, working capital management, the sale of non-core assets, and proceeds from certain private placements of our securities. The development of products requires the commitment of substantial resources to conduct the time consuming research and development, clinical studies and regulatory activities necessary to bring any potential product to market and to establish production, marketing and sales capabilities. Our ability to develop our products, to service our debt obligations, to fund working capital and capital expenditures, and for other purposes that cannot at this time be quantified will depend on our future operating performance, which will be affected by factors discussed elsewhere in this filing and in the other reports we file with the SEC, including, without limitation, receipt of regulatory approvals, economic conditions and financial, business, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We anticipate that we will be able to operate our business with our currently available funds through the profit enhancement initiatives implemented during fiscal 2008 which reduced research and development expenditures and reduced overhead through our actions to reorganize and streamline our operations. We therefore believe that our cash and cash equivalents along with cash flows generated from operations and working capital management will allow us to fund our planned operations over the next 12 months. Strategic business opportunities to accelerate the growth of our business may require additional funding. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in executing our strategies or that additional funding will be obtainable on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to execute our strategies, we may break the financial covenants of our senior secured debt and be unable to repay the outstanding balance of such debt. In addition, our lack of earnings history and our level of debt could have important consequences, such as: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our senior secured debt; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; 13 Table of Contents • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions, introducing new products or exploiting business opportunities; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments of our indebtedness, which will reduce the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • requiring us to sell equity or debt securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors, who may have greater financial resources. We may not be able to maintain compliance with our debt covenants in the future or repay our Second Amended and Restated Secured Notes at maturity. Our Second Amended and Restated Secured Notes contain comprehensive covenants that restrict the way in which we can operate, and contain financial covenants that require us to, among other things, maintain, at the end of each fiscal quarter, cash and cash equivalents in an amount not less than $1.0 million. As of July 31, 2008, we were in compliance with this covenant and had approximately $4.5 million in cash and cash equivalents. We had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $3.5 million, $5.9 million and $8.7 million as of April 30, 2008, January 31, 2008 and October 31, 2007, respectively. Failure to maintain compliance with this or other covenants could, at the option of the Secured Note holders, result in an event of default under the Second Amended and Restated Secured Notes. Upon the occurrence of the first specified event of default, the holders of the Second Amended and Restated Secured Notes could accelerate and demand repayment of one-third of the outstanding principal balance and all accrued but unpaid interest on the Second Amended and Restated Secured Notes. Upon the occurrence of the second specified event of default, the holders of the Second Amended and Restated Secured Notes could accelerate and demand repayment of one-half of the outstanding principal balance and all accrued but unpaid interest on the Second Amended and Restated Secured Notes. Upon the occurrence of the third specified event of default, the entire principal balance and all accrued but unpaid interest may become due and payable. We anticipate we will need to refinance our Second Amended and Restated Secured Notes by their due date of July 31, 2010. During September 2008, we retained William Blair and Company to assist in exploring financing alternatives. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining sufficient replacement financing or that any refinancing will be obtainable on terms that are favorable to us. As such, we may incur greater interest expense and financing costs in future periods. If we are unable to refinance our Second Amended and Restated Secured Notes or obtain alternative sources of funding, we may be required to sell additional debt, equity or assets in order to meet our repayment obligations, which may not be possible. Should we refinance the Second Amended and Restated Secured Notes before their scheduled maturity, we may incur an additional non-cash interest charge relative to our unamortized debt issue costs and debt discounts. As of July 31, 2008 there was $1.8 million of unamortized debt issue costs and $3.6 million of debt discounts relative to the Second Amended and Restated Secured Notes. The restrictive covenants contained in our senior debt could adversely affect our business by limiting our flexibility. Our Second Amended and Restated Secured Notes impose restrictions that affect, among other things, our ability to incur debt, pay dividends, sell assets, create liens, make capital expenditures and investments, merge or consolidate, enter into transactions with affiliates, and otherwise enter into certain transactions outside the ordinary course of business. Our Second Amended and Restated Secured Notes also require us to maintain a minimum of $1.0 million of cash and cash equivalents and that we generate at least $1 of Defined EBITDA for one quarter ending on or before July 31, 2009. We satisfied the Defined EBITDA covenant in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. 14 Table of Contents Our ability to comply with the other covenants and restrictions of the Second Amended and Restated Secured Notes may be affected by events beyond our control. If we are unable to comply with the terms of our Second Amended and Restated Secured Notes, or if we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, we may default on our debt instruments. In the event of a default under the terms of any of our indebtedness, the debt holders may, under certain circumstances, accelerate the maturity of our obligations and proceed against their collateral. Historically we have been dependent on a few key products and our future growth is dependent on the growth of ViziLite® Plus and on the development and/or acquisition of new products. In the past, nearly all of our revenues were derived from the sales of Ester-C®, Peridex® and ViziLite® Plus products. We divested our Nutraceuticals business unit and the Ester-C® products in October 2006 and Peridex® in May 2007. With the acquisition and addition of the products of Pro-Dentec, and the change in our distribution method for ViziLite® Plus, we now sell direct to thousands of dental offices in the United States and Canada and we believe we have reduced our dependency on key customers. If any of our major products were to become subject to a problem such as loss of patent protection, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity adversely affecting user confidence or pressure from competing products, or if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the impact on our revenues could be significant. Additionally, we are reliant on third party manufacturers and single suppliers for our ViziLite® Plus product, and any supply problems resulting from regulatory issues applicable to such parties or failures to comply with the FDA’s current cGMP standards could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. Our future growth is dependent on the growth of the ViziLite® Plus product and new product development and/or acquisition. New product initiatives may not be successfully implemented because of many factors, including, but not limited to, difficulty in assimilation, development costs and diversion of management time. There can be no assurance that we will successfully develop and integrate new products into our business that will result in growth and a positive impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. A number of factors could impact our plans to commercialize our new products, including, but not limited to: • difficulties in the production process, controlling the costs to produce, market and distribute the product on a commercial scale, and our ability to do so with favorable gross margins and otherwise on a profitable basis; • the inherent difficulty of gaining market acceptance for a new product; • competition from larger, more established companies with greater resources; • changes in raw material supplies that could result in production delays and higher raw material costs; • difficulties in promoting consumer awareness for the new product; • adverse publicity regarding the industries in which we market our products; and • the cost, timing and ultimate results of regulatory program studies that we undertake. Our proprietary rights may prove difficult to enforce. Our current and future success depends on a combination of patent, trademark, and trade secret protection and nondisclosure and licensing agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We own and have exclusive licenses to a number of United States and foreign patents and patent applications and intend to seek additional patent applications as we deem necessary and appropriate to operate our business. We can offer no assurances regarding the strength of the patent portfolio underlying any existing or new product and/or technology or whether patents will be issued from any pending patent applications related to a new product and/or technology, or if the patents are issued, that any claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to cover the product, technology or production process. Although we intend to defend our proprietary rights, policing unauthorized use of intellectual property is difficult or may prove materially costly and any patents that may be issued relating to new products and technology may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. 15 Table of Contents We are dependent on our senior management and other key personnel. Our ability to operate successfully depends in significant part upon the experience, efforts, and abilities of our senior management and other key scientific, technical and managerial personnel. Competition for talented personnel is intense. The future loss of services of one or more of our key executives could adversely impact our financial performance and our ability to execute our strategies. Additionally, if we are unable to attract, train, motivate and retain key personnel, our business could be harmed. We and our products are subject to regulatory oversight that could substantially interfere with our ability to do business. We and our present and future products are subject to risks associated with new federal, state, local, or foreign legislation or regulation or adverse determinations by regulators under existing regulations, including the interpretation of and compliance with existing, proposed and future regulatory requirements imposed by the FDA. We are also subject to other governmental authorities such as the Department of Health and Human Services, the Consumer Products Safety Commission, the Department of Justice and the United States Federal Trade Commission with its regulatory authority over, among other items, product safety and efficacy claims made in product labeling and advertising. Individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws. A regulatory determination or development that affects our ability to market or produce one or more of our products could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operation and financial condition and may include product recalls, denial of approvals and other civil and criminal sanctions. We are at risk with respect to product liability claims. We could be exposed to possible claims for personal injury resulting from allegedly defective products manufactured by third parties with whom we have entered into manufacturing agreements or by us. We maintain $6.0 million in product liability insurance coverage for claims arising from the use of our products, with limits we believe are commercially reasonable under the circumstances, and, in most instances, require our manufacturers to carry product liability insurance. While we believe our insurance coverage is adequate, we could be subject to product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage. In addition, we may be unable to retain our existing coverage in the future. Any significant product liability claims not within the scope of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us. We face significant competition that could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. The pharmaceutical, medical device and related industries are highly competitive. A number of companies, many of which have financial resources, marketing capabilities, established relationships, superior experience and operating history, and research and development capacities greater than ours, are actively engaged in the development of products similar to the products we produce and market. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive and ongoing research efforts. Other companies may succeed in developing products superior to those we market. It may be difficult for us to maintain or increase sales volume and market share due to such competition which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The loss of any of our products’ patent protection could lead to a significant loss in sales of our products in the United States market. If the use of our technology is determined to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, our business could be harmed. Litigation may result from our use of registered trademarks or common law marks and, if litigation against us were successful, a resulting loss of the right to use a trademark could reduce sales of our products and could result in a significant damage award. International operations may be affected by changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies in foreign countries in which we do business. Furthermore, if it were ultimately determined that our intellectual property rights are unenforceable, or that our use of our technology infringes on the intellectual property rights of others, we may be required or may desire to 16 Table of Contents obtain licenses to patents and other intellectual property held by third parties to develop, manufacture and market products using our technology. We may not be able to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and any licensed patents or intellectual property that we may obtain may not be valid or enforceable. In addition, the scope of intellectual property protection is subject to scrutiny and challenge by courts and other governmental bodies. Litigation and other proceedings concerning patents and proprietary technologies can be protracted, expensive and distracting to management and companies may sue competitors as a way of delaying the introduction of competitors’ products. Any litigation, including any interference proceedings to determine priority of inventions, oppositions to patents in foreign countries or litigation against our partners, may be costly and time-consuming and could significantly harm our business. Because of the large number of patent filings in our industry, our competitors may have filed applications or been issued patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary intellectual property rights relating to products or processes competitive with or similar to ours. We cannot be certain that United States or foreign patents do not exist or will not be issued that would harm our ability to commercialize our products and product candidates. In addition, our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of an acquisition as we have lower visibility into any potential target’s safeguards and infringement risks. In addition, third party claims may be asserted after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to such acquisition. We require certain raw materials for our manufacturing processes that may only be acquired through limited sources. Raw materials essential to our business are generally readily available. However, certain raw materials and components used in the manufacture of pharmaceutical and medical device products are available from limited sources, and in some cases, a single source. Any curtailment in the availability of such raw materials could be accompanied by production delays, and in the case of products, for which only one raw material supplier exists, could result in a material loss of sales. In addition, because raw material sources for products must generally be approved by regulatory authorities, changes in raw material suppliers could result in production delays, higher raw material costs and loss of sales and customers. Production delays may also be caused by the lack of secondary suppliers. We have, in the past, received minor deficiencies from regulatory agencies related to our manufacturing facilities. The FDA, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) and other regulatory agencies periodically inspect our manufacturing facilities and certain facilities of our suppliers. In the past, such inspections resulted in the identification of certain minor deficiencies in the standards we are required to maintain by such regulatory agencies. We developed and implemented action plans to remedy the deficiencies; however, there can be no assurance that such deficiencies will be remedied to the satisfaction of the applicable regulatory body. In the event that we are unable to remedy such deficiencies, our product supply could be affected as a result of plant shutdown, product recall or other similar regulatory actions, which would likely have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Capital Stock The Private Placements and other financing arrangements or corporate events could significantly dilute existing ownership. Following the August 13, 2007 and June 3, 2008 restructurings of the securities issued in the Private Placements that we consummated in November 2006, an additional approximately 1,992,216 shares of our common stock would be issued should investors convert all amounts due under the Second Amended and Restated Secured Notes and exercise all warrants issued in connection with the Private Placements that remain outstanding after such restructurings, which would dilute existing shareholders’ current ownership percentages and voting power. The Second Amended and Restated Secured Notes bear interest, payable quarterly, at 7.0% per annum, but at our option, interest payments can be made at an 8.0% annual rate in shares of our common stock at a price equal to 17 Table of Contents 90.0% of the average closing bid price of such common stock for the ten trading days immediately prior to the relevant interest payment date. We paid interest in kind with shares of our common stock in the second, third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2008, which resulted in the issuance of an additional 353,570 shares of our common stock. If we choose to continue to pay interest on our Second Amended and Restated Notes in kind or raise additional funds through the issuance of shares of our common or preferred stock, or securities convertible into our common stock, significant dilution of ownership in our company may occur, and holders of such securities may have rights senior to those of the holders of our common stock. If we obtain additional financing by issuing debt securities, the terms of these securities could restrict or prevent us from paying dividends and could limit our flexibility in making business decisions. Moreover, other corporate events such as the exercise of outstanding options would result in further dilution of ownership for existing shareholders. In the past, we have experienced volatility in the market price of our common stock and we may experience such volatility in the future. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past. Stock markets have experienced extreme price volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities we and other pharmaceutical and health care companies have issued, often for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. In the past, stockholders of other companies have initiated securities class action litigation against such companies following periods of volatility in the market price of the applicable common stock. We anticipate that the market price of our common stock may continue to be volatile. If the market price of our common stock continues to fluctuate and our stockholders initiate this type of litigation, we could incur substantial costs and expenses and such litigation could divert our management’s attention and resources, regardless of the outcome, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operation. We may take actions which could dilute current equity ownership or prevent or delay a change in our control. Subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by NASDAQ and the SEC, our Board of Directors could authorize the sale and issuance of additional shares of common stock, which would have the effect of diluting the ownership interests of our stockholders. In addition, our Board of Directors has the authority, without any further vote by our stockholders, to issue up to 2,500,000 shares of Preferred Stock in one or more series and to determine the designations, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights thereof, including without limitation, the dividend rate (and whether dividends are cumulative), conversion rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption, redemption price and liquidation preference. On February 1, 2001, we issued 100,000 shares of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock in connection with an acquisition. As of July 31, 2008 and the date of this filing, all of these shares remained outstanding. If the Board of Directors authorizes the issuance of additional shares of Preferred Stock, such an issuance could have the effect of diluting the ownership interests of our common stockholders. Failure to maintain NASDAQ Marketplace Rules could materially and adversely affect our business. Our Audit Committee is currently comprised of only two directors. In accordance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4350(d), we are required to have an audit committee consisting of at least three independent directors in order to remain listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. We have until our next annual shareholders meeting to comply with this requirement to regain compliance with NASDAQ’s rule on audit committee composition. Our next shareholders’ meeting is scheduled for December 11, 2008 and we expect to fill the Audit Committee vacancy within the required time frame. In the event that we were delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock would become significantly less liquid, which would adversely affect its value. Although our common stock would likely be traded over-the-counter or on pink sheets, these types of listings involve more risk and trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than securities traded on the NASDAQ Global Market. 18 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 