Item 1A. Risk Factors The statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. If any of the following risks actually occur, they may materially harm our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flow. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we think are immaterial may also materially harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business We may be unable to obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for new drugs, devices or products or to establish markets in the United States and obtaining regulatory approval is costly and uncertain. The rigorous clinical testing and extensive regulatory approval process mandated by the FDA and equivalent foreign authorities before any new drug, device or product can be marketed can take a number of years, require the expenditure of substantial resources, and approval may not ultimately be obtained. If FDA approval of a new product is received, such approval may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed and there is no assurance that we will be successful in gaining market acceptance of that product. Moreover, a marketed product, its manufacturer, its manufacturing facilities, and its 13 Table of Contents suppliers are also subject to continual review and periodic inspections, and later discovery of previously unknown problems, or the exacerbation of problems previously deemed acceptable, with a product, manufacturer, or facility may result in restrictions on such product or manufacturer, potentially including withdrawal of the product from the market, which would adversely affect our operations and financial condition. The length of the FDA regulatory process and review period varies considerably, as does the amount of data required to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a specific product. If the compounds in testing are modified or optimized or if certain results are obtained, it may extend the testing process. Additional testing, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon changes in FDA policy, personal or prior understandings during the period of product development and FDA regulatory review of each investigational new drug application, new drug application, or product license application. Similar delays may also be encountered in other countries. There can be no assurance that even after such time and expenditures we will obtain regulatory approval for any products we develop. In its regulation of advertising, the FDA from time to time issues correspondence to pharmaceutical companies alleging that some advertising or promotional practices are false, misleading or deceptive. The FDA has the power to impose a wide array of sanctions on companies for such advertising practices, and the receipt of correspondence from the FDA alleging these practices can result in the following: • incurring substantial expenses, including fines, penalties, legal fees and costs to comply with the FDA’s requirements • changes in the methods of marketing and selling products • taking FDA-mandated corrective action, which may include placing advertisements or sending letters to dental professionals and physicians rescinding previous advertisements or promotion • disruption in the distribution of products and loss of sales until compliance with the FDA’s position is obtained Our lack of earnings history could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our payment obligations, and if we are unable to generate funds or obtain funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop and market our present and potential products. Our liquidity needs have typically arisen from the funding of our research and development program and the launch of our new products, such as ViziLite® Plus, working capital and debt service requirements, and future strategic initiatives. In the past, we have met these cash requirements through our cash and cash equivalents, borrowings under our credit facility, cash from operations and working capital management, the sale of non-core assets, proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee stock option and stock purchase programs, and, recently, proceeds from the Private Placements. The development of products, such as OraTest®, requires the commitment of substantial resources to conduct the time-consuming research and development, clinical studies and regulatory activities necessary to bring any potential product to market and to establish production, marketing and sales capabilities. Our ability to develop our products, to service our debt obligations, to fund working capital and capital expenditures, and for other purposes that cannot at this time be quantified will depend on our future operating performance, which will be affected by factors discussed elsewhere in the reports we file with the SEC, including, without limitation, receipt of regulatory approvals, economic conditions and financial, business, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. After an evaluation of our strategic direction, including an assessment of the OraTest® regulatory program, we believe that in order to maximize shareholder value, our resources must be directed to those products and programs with the greatest probability of financial return. We believe that our greatest potential lies with our ability to develop and commercialize our oral cancer screening product, ViziLite® Plus. Our analysis concluded that the incremental market potential of OraTest®, considering the availability of ViziLite® Plus, does not justify the cost, time and uncertain study outcomes associated with continuing the program in its current form. We believe that the ZTC® platform may have additional therapeutic applications and that these therapeutic applications could appeal to a partner. We have therefore initiated the process of seeking a partner in an effort to realize the value of the ZTC® platform. (For further discussion, see Item 1. Business — Recent Developments.) 14 Table of Contents We anticipate that we will be able to pursue our strategy with our currently available funds through (i) the anticipated growth in our commercial business; (ii) cost reductions in research and development expenditures on the OraTest® regulatory program; and (iii) reduced overhead from our actions to reorganize and streamline our operations. We, therefore, believe that our cash and cash equivalents along with cash flows generated from operations and working capital management will allow us to fund our planned operations over the next 12 months. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in executing these strategies. If we are unable to execute these strategies, we may break the financial covenants of our senior secured debt and be unable to repay the outstanding balance of such debt. In addition, our lack of earnings history and our level of debt could have important consequences, such as: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the Secured Notes; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions, introducing new products or exploiting business opportunities; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which will reduce the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • requiring us to sell debt securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have greater financial resources. Our debt instruments contain restrictive covenants that could adversely affect our business by limiting our flexibility. Our Amended and Restated Secured Notes impose restrictions that affect, among other things, our ability to incur debt, pay dividends, sell assets, create liens, make capital expenditures and investments, merge or consolidate, enter into transactions with affiliates, and otherwise enter into certain transactions outside the ordinary course of business. Our Amended and Restated Secured Notes also require us to maintain defined levels of cash and EBITDA, defined as earnings (loss) before interest, taxes (benefit), depreciation and amortization. Our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control. If we are unable to comply with the terms of our Secured Notes, or if we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or to obtain additional financing. If cash flow is insufficient and refinancing or additional financing is unavailable because of our high levels of debt and the debt incurrence restrictions under our debt instruments, we may default on our debt instruments. In the event of a default under the terms of any of our indebtedness, the debt holders may, under certain circumstances, accelerate the maturity of our obligations and proceed against their collateral. We may fail to realize the anticipated cost savings, revenue enhancements, product focus, or other benefits expected from our recent acquisition of Pro-Dentec. Our future growth will depend on our ability to implement our business strategy. We believe that our recent acquisition of Pro-Dentec, a privately-held dental products company, will strengthen our business, including the development and commercialization of our oral cancer screening products. Further, we believe that this acquisition could increase our ability to deliver our products into the dental marketplace and could result in synergies that enhance our sales capability, potentially reduce our costs and increase our profits. However, successful acquisitions in our industry are difficult to accomplish because they require, among other things, efficient integration and aligning of product offerings and manufacturing operations and coordination of sales and marketing and research and development efforts. The difficulties of integration and alignment may be increased by the necessity of 15 Table of Contents coordinating geographically separated organizations, the complexity of the technologies being integrated and aligned and the necessity of integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures. The integration and alignment of operations following an acquisition or alliance requires the dedication of management resources that may distract attention from the day-to-day operations of the business, and may disrupt key research and development, marketing or sales efforts. In addition, there is no guarantee that such acquisition will result in the synergies we anticipate. Furthermore, uncertainties associated with such acquisition combined with the recent disposition of our Nutraceuticals Business Unit may cause loss of employees. Ultimately, the success of such acquisition depends in part on the retention of key personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain the acquired company’s key management, technical, sales and customer support personnel. If we fail to retain such key employees, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisition. Historically we have been dependent on a few key products and our future growth is dependent on the development and/or acquisition of new products. In the past, nearly all of our revenues were derived from the sales of Ester-C®, Peridex® and ViziLite® Plus products. We divested our Nutraceuticals Business Unit and the Ester-C® products in October 2006 and Peridex® in May 2007. With the acquisition and addition of the products of Pro-Dentec, and the change in our distribution method for ViziLite® Plus, we now sell direct to thousands of dental offices nationally and we believe we have reduced our dependency on key customers. If any of our major products were to become subject to a problem such as loss of patent protection, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity adversely affecting user confidence or pressure from competing products, or if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the impact on our revenues could be significant. Additionally, we are reliant on third party manufacturers and single suppliers for our ViziLite® Plus product, and any supply problems resulting from regulatory issues applicable to such parties or failures to comply with cGMP’s could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. Our future growth is dependent on the growth of the ViziLite® Plus product and new product development and/or acquisition. New product initiatives may not be successfully implemented because of many factors, including, but not limited to, difficulty in assimilation, development costs and diversion of management time. There can be no assurance that we will successfully develop and integrate new products into our business that will result in growth and a positive impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. A number of factors could impact our plans to commercialize our new products, including, but not limited to, difficulties in the production process, controlling the costs to produce, market and distribute the product on a commercial scale, and our ability to do so with favorable gross margins and otherwise on a profitable basis; the inherent difficulty of gaining market acceptance for a new product; competition from larger, more established companies with greater resources; changes in raw material supplies that could result in production delays and higher raw material costs; difficulties in promoting consumer awareness for the new product; adverse publicity regarding the industries in which we market our products; and the cost, timing, and ultimate results of regulatory program studies that we undertake. Our proprietary rights may prove difficult to enforce. Our current and future success depends on a combination of patent, trademark, and trade secret protection and nondisclosure and licensing agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We own and have exclusive licenses to a number of United States and foreign patents and patent applications and intend to seek additional patent applications as we deem necessary and appropriate to operate our business. We can offer no assurances regarding the strength of the patent portfolio underlying any existing or new product and/or technology or whether patents will be issued from any pending patent applications related to a new product and/or technology, or if the patents are issued, that any claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to cover the product, technology or production process. Although we intend to defend our proprietary rights, policing unauthorized use of intellectual property is difficult or may prove materially costly and any patents that may be issued relating to new products and technology may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. 16 Table of Contents We are dependent on our senior management and other key personnel. Our ability to operate successfully depends in significant part upon the experience, efforts, and abilities of our senior management and other key scientific, technical and managerial personnel. Competition for talented personnel is intense. The future loss of services of one or more of our key executives could adversely impact our financial performance and our ability to execute our strategies. Additionally, if we are unable to attract, train, motivate and retain key personnel, our business could be harmed. We and our products are subject to regulatory oversight that could substantially interfere with our ability to do business. We and our present and future products are subject to risks associated with new federal, state, local, or foreign legislation or regulation or adverse determinations by regulators under existing regulations, including the interpretation of and compliance with existing, proposed, and future regulatory requirements imposed by the FDA. We are also subject to other governmental authorities such as the Department of Health and Human Services, the Consumer Products Safety Commission, the Department of Justice and the United States Federal Trade Commission with its regulatory authority over, among other items, product safety and efficacy claims made in product labeling and advertising. Individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws. A regulatory determination or development that affects our ability to market or produce one or more of our products could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operation, and financial condition and may include product recalls, denial of approvals and other civil and criminal sanctions. We are at risk with respect to product liability claims. We could be exposed to possible claims for personal injury resulting from allegedly defective products manufactured by third parties with whom we have entered into manufacturing agreements or by us. We maintain $6.0 million in product liability insurance coverage for claims arising from the use of our products, with limits we believe are commercially reasonable under the circumstances, and, in most instances, require our manufacturers to carry product liability insurance. While we believe our insurance coverage is adequate, we could be subject to product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage. In addition, we may be unable to retain our existing coverage in the future. Any significant product liability claims not within the scope of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us. We face significant competition that could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. The pharmaceutical, medical device and related industries are highly competitive. A number of companies, many of which have financial resources, marketing capabilities, established relationships, superior experience and operating history, and research and development capacities greater than ours, are actively engaged in the development of products similar to the products we produce and market. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive and ongoing research efforts. Other companies may succeed in developing products superior to those we market. It may be difficult for us to maintain or increase sales volume and market share due to such competition which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The loss of any of our products’ patent protection could lead to a significant loss in sales of our products in the United States market. If the use of our technology is determined to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, our business could be harmed. Litigation may result from our use of registered trademarks or common law marks and, if litigation against us were successful, a resulting loss of the right to use a trademark could reduce sales of our products and could result in a significant damage award. International operations may be affected by changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies in foreign countries in which we do business. Furthermore, if it were ultimately determined that our intellectual property rights are unenforceable, or that our use of our technology infringes on the intellectual property rights of others, we may be required or may desire to 17 Table of Contents obtain licenses to patents and other intellectual property held by third parties to develop, manufacture and market products using our technology. We may not be able to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and any licensed patents or intellectual property that we may obtain may not be valid or enforceable. In addition, the scope of intellectual property protection is subject to scrutiny and challenge by courts and other governmental bodies. Litigation and other proceedings concerning patents and proprietary technologies can be protracted, expensive and distracting to management and companies may sue competitors as a way of delaying the introduction of competitors’ products. Any litigation, including any interference proceedings to determine priority of inventions, oppositions to patents in foreign countries or litigation against our partners, may be costly and time-consuming and could significantly harm our business. Because of the large number of patent filings in our industry, our competitors may have filed applications or been issued patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary intellectual property rights relating to products or processes competitive with or similar to ours. We cannot be certain that United States or foreign patents do not exist or will not be issued that would harm our ability to commercialize our products and product candidates. In addition, our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of an acquisition as we have lower visibility into any potential target’s safeguards and infringement risks. In addition, third party claims may be asserted after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to such acquisition. We require certain raw materials for our manufacturing processes that may only be acquired through limited sources. Raw materials essential to our business are generally readily available. However, certain raw materials and components used in the manufacture of pharmaceutical and medical device products are available from limited sources, and in some cases, a single source. Any curtailment in the availability of such raw materials could be accompanied by production delays, and in the case of products, for which only one raw material supplier exists, could result in a material loss of sales. In addition, because raw material sources for products must generally be approved by regulatory authorities, changes in raw material suppliers could result in production delays, higher raw material costs and loss of sales and customers. Production delays may also be caused by the lack of secondary suppliers. We have, in the past, received minor deficiencies from regulatory agencies related to our manufacturing facilities. The FDA, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and other regulatory agencies periodically inspect our manufacturing facilities and certain facilities of our suppliers. In the past, such inspections resulted in the identification of certain minor deficiencies in the standards we are required to maintain by such regulatory agencies. We developed and implemented action plans to remedy the deficiencies; however, there can be no assurance that such deficiencies will be remedied to the satisfaction of the applicable regulatory body. In the event that we are unable to remedy such deficiencies, our product supply could be affected as a result of plant shutdown, product recall or other similar regulatory actions, which would likely have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and results of operation. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Capital Stock The Private Placements and other financing arrangements or corporate events could significantly dilute existing ownership. Following the August 13, 2007 restructuring to the securities issued under the November 2007 Private Placements, an additional approximately 16.9 million shares of our common stock would be issued should investors convert all Amended and Restated Secured notes and exercise all warrants issued in connection with the Private Placements, which would dilute existing shareholders current ownership percentages and voting power. If we choose to raise additional funds through the issuance of shares of our common stock, or securities convertible into our common stock, significant dilution of ownership in our company may occur, and holders of such securities may have rights senior to those of the holders of our common stock. If we obtain additional financing by issuing debt 18 Table of Contents securities, the terms of these securities could restrict or prevent us from paying dividends and could limit our flexibility in making business decisions. Moreover, other corporate events such as the exercise of outstanding options would result in further dilution of ownership for existing shareholders. In the past, we have experienced volatility in the market price of our common stock and we may experience such volatility in the future. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past. We believe that announcements of new products, quarterly fluctuations in the results of operations and other factors, including changes in conditions in general in the industries in which we operate and developments in regulatory arenas may have caused such fluctuations. Stock markets have experienced extreme price volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities we and other pharmaceutical and health care companies have issued, often for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. In the past, stockholders of other companies have initiated securities class action litigation against such companies following periods of volatility in the market price of the applicable common stock. We anticipate that the market price of our common stock may continue to be volatile. If the market price of our common stock continues to fluctuate and our stockholders initiate this type of litigation, we could incur substantial costs and expenses and such litigation could divert our management’s attention and resources, regardless of the outcome, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operation. We may take actions which could dilute current equity ownership or prevent or delay a change in our control. In December 2006, our Board of Directors and stockholders approved an increase in our authorized capital stock from 67.5 million to 150.0 million and an increase in authorized common stock from 65.0 million to 147.5 million. Some of these newly authorized shares are reserved for issuance upon the exercise of the Initial Warrants, Additional Warrants, Secured Note Warrants and Roth Warrants, as well as the conversion of the Secured Notes, that were issued in the Private Placements. Subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by Nasdaq and the SEC, our Board of Directors could authorize the sale and issuance of additional shares of common stock, which would have the effect of diluting the ownership interests of our stockholders. In addition, our Board of Directors has the authority, without any further vote by our stockholders, to issue up to 2.5 million shares of Preferred Stock in one or more series and to determine the designations, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights thereof, including without limitation, the dividend rate (and whether dividends are cumulative), conversion rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption, redemption price and liquidation preference. On February 1, 2001, we issued 100,000 shares of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock in connection with an acquisition. As of July 31, 2007 and the date of this filing, all of these shares remained outstanding. If the Board of Directors authorizes the issuance of additional shares of Preferred Stock, such an issuance could have the effect of diluting the ownership interests of our common stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 