Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other periodic statements we make. We depend on external financing to fund leases and contracts, and adequate financing may not be available to us in amounts, together with our cash flow, sufficient to originate new leases. Our lease and finance business is capital-intensive and requires access to substantial short-term and long-term credit to fund leases and contracts. We will continue to require significant additional capital to maintain and expand our funding of leases and contracts, as well as to fund any future acquisitions of leasing companies or portfolios. 6 Table of Contents As of September 30, 2002, our $192 million credit facility failed to renew and consequently, we were forced to suspend substantially all origination activity in October 2002. In June 2004, we secured a one-year $8 million line of credit and a $2 million three-year subordinated note that enabled us to resume originations. On September 29, 2004, we secured a three-year, $30 million, senior secured revolving line of credit from CIT Commercial Services, a unit of CIT Group. The CIT line of credit replaced the one-year $8 million line of credit under more favorable terms and conditions. In addition, it retired the outstanding debt with our former lenders. We do not expect to renew the CIT line of credit in September 2007 and are currently exploring new financing options. We cannot guarantee that we will find new financing on acceptable terms. Our uses of cash include the origination and acquisition of leases and contracts, payment of interest and principal on borrowings, payment of selling, general and administrative expenses, income taxes and capital expenditures. Any default or other interruption of our external funding could have a material negative effect on our ability to fund new leases and contracts, and could, as a consequence, have an adverse effect on our financial results. The delay in originations caused by our former credit facility’s failure to renew in 2002 has decreased the size of our portfolio and may continue to adversely affect our financial performance. As a result of the failure of our old credit facility to renew, in October 2002, we were forced to suspend virtually all contract originations until we obtained a source of funding or the senior credit facility was paid in full. During 2003, we were able to fund a very limited number of new contracts using our free cash flow. For example, total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2004 were $60.4 million, a decrease of $31.2 million, or 34.1%, from the year ended December 31, 2003. The overall decrease in revenue was due to the decrease in the overall size of our portfolio of leases, rentals and service contracts as a direct result of our decision to cease originations. Our credit facilities entered into in June and September 2004 enabled us to resume contract originations. The absence of contract originations from October 2002 to June 2004 has had a continuing affect on our portfolio and financial performance. It will take some time to bring our portfolio to the point where it was when we suspended originations. In addition, after we ceased funding originations in 2002, we were required to terminate a number of our sales, sales support and credit personnel. As we have made progress in originating contracts in light of our new credit facilities, we face challenges in rebuilding those competencies through new hires. This illustrates how disruptions to our financing and origination capabilities can have long-lasting effects on our financial condition that extend beyond the resumption of originations. We are vulnerable to changes in the demand for the types of systems we lease or price reductions in such systems. The majority of our portfolio is comprised of authorization systems for point-of-sale (“POS”), card-based payments by, for example, debit, credit, gift and charge cards. We currently lease a wide variety of other equipment including advertising and display equipment, coffee machines, security equipment, paging systems, water coolers and restaurant equipment. Reduced demand for financing of these types of equipment, in particular POS authorization systems, could adversely affect our lease origination volume, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Technological advances may lead to a decrease in the price of these types of systems or equipment and a consequent decline in the need for financing of such equipment. In addition, for POS authorization systems, business and technological changes could change the manner in which POS authorization is obtained. These changes could reduce the need for outside financing sources that would reduce our lease financing opportunities and origination volume in such products. In the event that demand for financing POS authorization systems or other types of equipment that we lease declines, we will need to expand our efforts to provide lease financing for other products. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to do so successfully. Because many dealers specialize in particular products, we may not be able to capitalize on our current dealer relationships in the event we shift our business focus to originating leases of other products. Our failure to successfully enter into new relationships with dealers of other products or to extend existing relationships with such dealers in the event of reduced demand for financing of the systems and equipment we currently lease would have a material adverse effect on us. 7 Table of Contents Even if we have adequate financing, our expansion strategy may be affected by our limited sources for originations and our inexperience with leasing new products. Our revenue growth since the third quarter of 2002 has been severely affected by the failure of our former credit facility to renew and the lack of financing until June 2004. Even with our line of credit, our principal growth strategy of expansion into new products and markets may be adversely affected by (i) our inability to re-establish old sources or cultivate new sources of originations and (ii) our inexperience with products with different characteristics from those we currently offer, including the type of obligor and the amount financed. New Sources. A majority of our leases and contracts were historically originated through a network of dealers that deal exclusively in POS authorization systems. We are currently unable to capitalize on these relationships to originate leases for products other than POS authorization systems. In addition, we lost contact with some of our old sources during the period we suspended originations. Some of these dealers have found other financing sources. We may face difficulties in re-establishing our relationships with such sources. Our failure to develop additional relationships with dealers of products, which we lease or seek to lease, would hinder our growth strategy. New Products. Our existing portfolio primarily consists of leases to owner-operated or other small commercial enterprises with little business history and limited or challenged personal credit history. These leases are characterized by small average monthly payments for equipment with limited residual value at the end of the lease term. Our ability to successfully underwrite new products with different characteristics is highly dependent on our ability (i) to successfully analyze the credit risk associated with the users of such products so as to appropriately apply our risk-adjusted pricing and (ii) to utilize our proprietary software to efficiently service and collect on our portfolio. We can give no assurance that we will be able to successfully manage these credit risk issues, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We experience a significant rate of default under our leases, and a higher than expected default rate would have an adverse affect on our cash flow and earnings. The credit characteristics of our lessee base correspond to a high incidence of delinquencies, which in turn may lead to significant levels of defaults. The credit profile of our lessees heightens the importance of both pricing our leases and contracts for the risk assumed, as well as maintaining an adequate allowance for losses. Significant defaults by lessees in excess of those we anticipate in setting our prices and allowance levels may adversely affect our cash flow and earnings. Reduced cash flow and earnings could limit our ability to repay debt and obtain financing, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to our usual practice of originating leases through our dealer relationships, from time to time we have purchased lease portfolios from dealers. While certain of these leases at inception would not have met our underwriting standards, we will purchase leases once the lessee demonstrates a payment history. We prefer to acquire these smaller lease portfolios in situations where the company selling the portfolio will continue to act as a dealer following the acquisition. We may face adverse consequences of litigation, including consequences of using litigation as part of our collection policy. Our use of litigation as a means of collection of unpaid receivables exposes us to counterclaims on our suits for collection, to class action lawsuits and to negative publicity surrounding our leasing and collection policies. We have been a defendant in attempted class action suits as well as counterclaims filed by individual obligors in attempts to dispute the enforceability of the lease or contract. This type of litigation may be time consuming and expensive to defend, even if not meritorious, may result in the diversion of management time and attention, and may subject us to significant liability for damages or result in invalidation of our proprietary rights. We believe our collection policies and use of litigation comply fully with all applicable laws. Because of our persistent enforcement of our leases and contracts through the use of litigation, we may have created ill will toward us on the part of certain lessees and other obligors who were defendants in such lawsuits. Our litigation strategy has also generated adverse publicity in certain circumstances. Adverse publicity could negatively impact public perception of our business and may materially impact the price of our common stock. In addition to legal proceedings that may arise out of our 8 Table of Contents collection activities, we may face other litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increased interest rates may make our leases or contracts less profitable. Since we generally fund our leases and contracts through our credit facilities or from working capital, our operating margins could be adversely affected by an increase in interest rates. The implicit yield on all of our leases and contracts is fixed due to the leases and contracts having scheduled payments that are fixed at the time of origination. When we originate or acquire leases or contracts, we base our pricing in part on the “spread” we expect to achieve between the implicit yield on each lease or contract and the effective interest cost we expect to pay when we finance such leases and contracts. Increases in interest rates during the term of each lease or contract could narrow or eliminate the spread, or result in a negative spread, to the extent such lease or contract was financed with variable-rate funding. We may undertake to hedge against the risk of interest rate increases, based on the size and interest rate profile of our portfolio. Such hedging activities, however, would limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. In addition, our hedging activities may not protect us from interest rate-related risks in all interest rate environments. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An economic downturn may cause an increase in defaults under our leases and lower demand for the commercial equipment we lease. An economic downturn could result in a decline in the demand for some of the types of equipment or services we finance, which could lead to additional defaults and a decline in originations. An economic downturn may slow the development and continued operation of small commercial businesses, which are the primary market for POS authorization systems and the other commercial equipment leased by us. Such a downturn could also adversely affect our ability to obtain capital to fund lease and contract originations or acquisitions, or to complete securitizations. In addition, such a downturn could result in an increase in delinquencies and defaults by our lessees and other obligors, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and earnings, as well as on our ability to securitize leases. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, as of both December 31, 2005 and 2006, leases in California, Florida, Texas, Massachusetts and New York accounted for approximately 40% of our portfolio. Economic conditions in these states may affect the level of collections from, as well as delinquencies and defaults by, these obligors. We face intense competition, which could cause us to lower our lease rates, hurt our origination volume and strategic position and adversely affect our financial results. The microticket leasing and financing industry is highly competitive. We compete for customers with a number of national, regional and local banks and finance companies. Our competitors also include equipment manufacturers that lease or finance the sale of their own products. While the market for microticket financing has traditionally been fragmented, we could also be faced with competition from small- or large-ticket leasing companies that could use their expertise in those markets to enter and compete in the microticket financing market. Our competitors include larger, more established companies, some of which may possess substantially greater financial, marketing and operational resources than us, including lower cost of funds and access to capital markets and other funding sources, which may be unavailable to us. If a competitor were to lower their lease rates, we could be forced to follow suit or be unable to regain origination volume, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, competitors may seek to replicate the automated processes used by us to monitor dealer performance, evaluate lessee credit information, appropriately apply risk-adjusted pricing, and efficiently service a nationwide portfolio. The development of computer software similar to that developed by us may jeopardize our strategic position and allow our competitors to operate more efficiently than we do. 9 Table of Contents Government regulation could restrict our business. Our leasing business is not currently subject to extensive federal or state regulation. While we are not aware of any proposed legislation, the enactment of, or a change in the interpretation of, certain federal or state laws affecting our ability to price, originate or collect on receivables (such as the application of usury laws to our leases and contracts) could negatively affect the collection of income on our leases and contracts, as well as the collection of fee income. Any such legislation or change in interpretation, particularly in Massachusetts, whose laws govern the majority of our leases and contracts, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to originate leases and contracts at current levels of profitability, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies such as us that are not accelerated filers to comply with more stringent internal control system and monitoring requirements beginning in 2007. Compliance with this new requirement may place an expensive burden and significant time constraint on us. We may face risks in acquiring other portfolios and companies, including risks relating to how we finance any such acquisition or how we are able to assimilate any portfolios or operations we acquire. A portion of our growth strategy depends on the consummation of acquisitions of leasing companies or portfolios. Our inability to identify suitable acquisition candidates or portfolios, or to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, could limit our ability to grow our business. Any major acquisition would require a significant portion of our resources. The timing, size and success, if at all, of our acquisition efforts and any associated capital commitments cannot be readily predicted. We may finance future acquisitions by using shares of our common stock, cash or a combination of the two. Any acquisition we make using common stock would result in dilution to existing stockholders. If the common stock does not maintain a sufficient market value, or if potential acquisition candidates are otherwise unwilling to accept common stock as part or all of the consideration for the sale of their businesses, we may be required to utilize more of our cash resources, if available, or to incur additional indebtedness in order to initiate and complete acquisitions. Additional debt, as well as the potential amortization expense related to goodwill and other intangible assets incurred as a result of any such acquisition, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, certain of our credit facilities contain covenants that do not permit us to merge or consolidate into or with any other person or entity, issue any shares of our capital stock if, after giving effect to such issuance, certain shareholders cease to own or control specified percentages of our voting capital stock, create or acquire any subsidiaries other than certain permitted special purpose subsidiaries, or implement certain changes to our board of directors. These provisions could prevent us from making an acquisition using shares of our common stock as consideration. We also may experience difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, services, products and personnel of acquired companies, an inability to sustain or improve the historical revenue levels of acquired companies, the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business operations, and the potential loss of key employees of such acquired companies. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we were to lose key personnel, our operating results may suffer or it may cause a default under our debt facilities. Our success depends to a large extent upon the abilities and continued efforts of Richard Latour, President and Chief Executive Officer and James R. Jackson, Jr., Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and our other senior management. We have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Latour and Mr. Jackson, as well as other members of our senior management. The loss of the services of one or more of the key members of our senior management before we are able to attract and retain qualified replacement personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, under our credit facilities, an event of default would arise if Mr. Latour or Mr. Jackson were to leave their positions as our Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer, respectively, unless a suitable replacement were appointed within 60 days. Our failure to comply with these provisions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Certain provisions of our articles and bylaws may have the effect of discouraging a change in control or acquisition of the company. Our restated articles of organization and restated bylaws contain certain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a stockholder might consider favorable, including (i) provisions authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, (ii) providing for a Board of Directors with staggered terms, (iii) requiring super-majority or class voting to effect certain amendments to the articles and bylaws and to approve certain business combinations, (iv) limiting the persons who may call special stockholders’ meetings and (v) establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholders’ meetings. In addition, certain provisions of Massachusetts law to which we are subject may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control or an unsolicited acquisition proposal. Our stock price may be volatile, which could limit our access to the equity markets and could cause you to incur losses on your investment. If our revenues do not grow or grow more slowly than we anticipate, or if operating expenditures exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, the market price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the market price of our common stock has been in the past and could in the future be materially and adversely affected for reasons unrelated to our specific business or results of operations. General market price declines or volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, short-term trading strategies of certain investors can also have a significant effect on the price of specific securities. In addition, the trading price of the common stock may be influenced by a number of factors, including the liquidity of the market for the common stock, investor perceptions of us and the equipment financing industry in general, variations in our quarterly operating results, interest rate fluctuations and general economic and other conditions. Moreover, the stock market has experienced significant price and value fluctuations, which have not necessarily been related to corporate operating performance. The volatility of the stock market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise funds in the public markets. There is no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends on our common stock in the future. During the fourth quarter of 2002, our Board of Directors suspended the payment of dividends on our common stock to comply with our banking agreements and we paid no dividends in the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004. During 2005, we declared dividends of $0.05 per share payable to shareholders of record on each of February 9, 2005, April 29, 2005, July 27, 2005, October 27, 2005 and December 28, 2005, and a special dividend of $0.25 per share payable to shareholders of record on January 31, 2006. During 2006, we declared dividends of $0.05 per share payable to shareholders of record on each of March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006, September 29, 2006 and December 29, 2006. Future dividend payments are subject to ongoing review and evaluation by our Board of Directors. The decision as to the amount and timing of future dividends we may pay, if any, will be made in light of our financial condition, capital requirements and growth plans, as well as our external financing arrangements and any other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant. We can give no assurance as to the amount and timing of the payment of future dividends. 