Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other periodic statements we make. We depend on external financing to fund leases and contracts, and adequate financing may not be available to us in amounts, together with our cash flow, sufficient to originate new leases. Our lease and finance business is capital intensive and requires access to substantial short-term and long-term credit to fund leases and contracts. We will continue to require significant additional capital to maintain and expand our funding of leases and contracts, as well as to fund any future acquisitions of leasing companies or portfolios. Our uses of cash include the origination and acquisition of leases and contracts, payment of interest and principal on borrowings, payment of selling, general and administrative expenses, income taxes, capital expenditures and dividends. As of September 30, 2002, our former $192 million credit facility failed to renew and consequently, we were forced to suspend substantially all origination activity shortly thereafter. In June 2004, we secured a one-year $8 million line of credit and a $2 million three-year subordinated note that enabled us to resume originations. On September 29, 2004, we secured a three-year, $30 million, senior secured revolving line of credit from CIT. The CIT line of credit replaced the one-year $8 million line of credit under more favorable terms and conditions. In addition, it retired the outstanding debt with our former lenders. In July 2007, by mutual agreement between CIT and us, we paid off and terminated the CIT line of credit without penalty. In August 2007, we entered into a three-year $30 million line of credit with Sovereign based on qualified TimePayment lease receivables. On July 9, 2008 we entered into an amended agreement to increase our line of credit with Sovereign to $60 million. The maturity date of the amended agreement remained August 2, 2010. Outstanding borrowings are collateralized by eligible lease contracts and a security interest in all of our other assets, and until February 2009 bore interest at Prime or at LIBOR plus 2.75%. On February 10, 2009 we entered into an amended agreement to increase our line of credit with Sovereign to $85 million. Under the amendment, outstanding borrowings bear interest at either Prime plus 1.75% or LIBOR plus 3.75%, in each case subject to a minimum interest rate of 5%. All other terms of the facility remained the same. Any default or other interruption of our external funding could have a material negative effect on our ability to fund new leases and contracts, and could, as a consequence, have an adverse effect on our financial results. Our ability to draw down amounts under our credit facility is potentially restricted by a borrowing base calculated with respect to our eligible receivables, and by the facility’s requirement that we maintain certain leverage and other financial ratios. The credit facility contains certain provisions which limit our ability to incur indebtedness from other sources. The delay in originations caused by our former credit facility’s failure to renew in 2002 has decreased the size of our portfolio and may continue to adversely affect our financial performance. As a result of the failure of our old credit facility to renew, in October 2002, we were forced to suspend virtually all contract originations until we obtained a source of funding or until such time as the senior credit facility was paid in full. During 2003, we were able to fund a very limited number of new contracts using our free cash flow. Our credit facilities entered into in June and September 2004 enabled us to resume contract originations. The absence of contract originations from October 2002 to June 2004 has had a continuing affect on our portfolio and financial 7 Table of Contents performance as older contracts in the portfolio expire and are not replaced through new contract originations during that period. As a result, our revenues derived from financing leases declined in each of the years 2002 through 2006, despite our increased levels of origination beginning in 2004 when we arranged a replacement credit facility. It will take some time to bring our portfolio to the point where it was when we suspended originations. In addition, after we ceased funding originations in 2002, we were required to terminate a number of our sales, sales support and credit personnel. As we have made progress in originating contracts in light of our new credit facilities, we face challenges in rebuilding those competencies through new hires. This illustrates how disruptions to our financing and origination capabilities can have long-lasting effects on our financial condition that extend beyond the resumption of originations. A protracted economic downturn may cause an increase in defaults under our leases and lower demand for the commercial equipment we lease. A protracted economic downturn such as the one the United States and other nations are currently experiencing could result in a decline in the demand for some of the types of equipment or services we finance, which could lead to additional defaults and a decline in originations. A protracted economic downturn may slow the development and continued operation of small commercial businesses, which are the primary market for the commercial equipment leased by us. Such a downturn could also adversely affect our ability to obtain capital to fund lease and contract originations or acquisitions, or to complete securitizations. In addition, a protracted downturn could result in an increase in delinquencies and defaults by our lessees and other obligors, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and earnings, as well as on our ability to securitize leases. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 leases in the states of California, Florida, New York and Texas accounted for approximately 40% of our portfolio. For the year ended December 31 2006, leases in California, Florida, Texas, Massachusetts and New York accounted for approximately 40% of our portfolio. Economic conditions in these states may affect the level of collections from, as well as delinquencies and defaults by, these obligors. We experience a significant rate of default under our leases, and a higher than expected default rate would have an adverse affect on our cash flow and earnings. Even in times of general economic growth, the credit characteristics of our lessee base correspond to a high incidence of delinquencies, which in turn may lead to significant levels of defaults. The credit profile of our lessees heightens the importance of both pricing our leases and contracts for the risk assumed, as well as maintaining an adequate allowance for losses. Our lessees, moreover, have been affected by the current economic downturn like almost all small businesses. Significant defaults by lessees in excess of those we anticipate in setting our prices and allowance levels may adversely affect our cash flow and earnings. Reduced cash flow and earnings could limit our ability to repay debt and obtain financing, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to our usual practice of originating leases through our dealer relationships, from time to time we have purchased lease portfolios from dealers. While certain of these leases at inception would not have met our underwriting standards, we will purchase leases once the lessee demonstrates a payment history. We prefer to acquire these smaller lease portfolios in situations where the company selling the portfolio will continue to act as a dealer following the acquisition. Our allowance for credit losses may prove to be inadequate to cover future credit losses. We maintain an allowance for credit losses on our investments in leases, service contracts and rental contracts at an amount we believe is sufficient to provide adequate protection against losses in our portfolio. We can not be sure that our allowance for credit losses will be adequate over time to cover losses caused by adverse economic factors, or unfavorable events affecting specific leases, industries or geographic areas. Losses in excess of our allowance for credit losses may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents We are vulnerable to changes in the demand for the types of equipment we lease or price reductions in such equipment. Our portfolio is comprised of authorization systems for point-of-sale (“POS”), card-based payments by, for example, debit, credit, gift and charge cards in addition to a wide variety of other equipment including advertising and display equipment, coffee machines, security equipment, paging systems, water coolers and restaurant equipment. Reduced demand for financing of these types of equipment could adversely affect our lease origination volume, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Technological advances may lead to a decrease in the price of these types of systems or equipment and a consequent decline in the need for financing of such equipment. In addition, for POS authorization systems, business and technological changes could change the manner in which POS authorization is obtained. These changes could reduce the need for outside financing sources that would reduce our lease financing opportunities and origination volume in such products. These types of equipment are often leased by small commercial businesses which may be particularly susceptible to the current economic downturn, which may also affect demand for these products. In the event that demand for financing the types of equipment that we lease declines, we will need to expand our efforts to provide lease financing for other products. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to do so successfully. Because many dealers specialize in particular products, we may not be able to capitalize on our current dealer relationships in the event we shift our business focus to originating leases of other products. Our failure to successfully enter into new relationships with dealers of other products or to extend existing relationships with such dealers in the event of reduced demand for financing of the systems and equipment we currently lease would have a material adverse effect on us. Even if we have adequate financing, our expansion strategy may be affected by our limited sources for originations and our inexperience with leasing new products. Our revenue growth since the third quarter of 2002 has been severely affected by the failure of our former credit facility to renew and the lack of financing until June 2004. Even with our line of credit, our principal growth strategy of expansion into new products and markets may be adversely affected by (i) our inability to re-establish old sources or cultivate new sources of originations and (ii) our inexperience with products with different characteristics from those we currently offer, including the type of obligor and the amount financed. New Sources. A majority of our leases and contracts were historically originated through a network of dealers that deal exclusively in POS authorization systems. We are currently unable to capitalize on these relationships to originate leases for products other than POS authorization systems. In addition, we lost contact with some of our old sources during the period we suspended originations. Some of these dealers have found other financing sources. We may face difficulties in establishing our relationships with new sources. Our failure to develop additional relationships with dealers of products, which we lease or seek to lease, would hinder our growth strategy. New Products. Our existing portfolio primarily consists of leases to owner-operated or other small commercial enterprises with little business history and limited or challenged personal credit history. These leases are characterized by small average monthly payments for equipment with limited residual value at the end of the lease term. Our ability to successfully underwrite new products with different characteristics is highly dependent on our ability (i) to successfully analyze the credit risk associated with the users of such products so as to appropriately apply our risk-adjusted pricing and (ii) to utilize our proprietary software to efficiently service and collect on our portfolio. We can give no assurance that we will be able to successfully manage these credit risk issues, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We may face adverse consequences of litigation, including consequences of using litigation as part of our collection policy. Our use of litigation as a means of collection of unpaid receivables exposes us to counterclaims on our suits for collection, to class action lawsuits and to negative publicity surrounding our leasing and collection policies. We have been a defendant in attempted class action suits as well as counterclaims filed by individual obligors in 9 Table of Contents attempts to dispute the enforceability of the lease or contract. This type of litigation may be time consuming and expensive to defend, even if not meritorious, may result in the diversion of management time and attention, and may subject us to significant liability for damages or result in invalidation of our proprietary rights. We believe our collection policies and use of litigation comply fully with all applicable laws. Because of our persistent enforcement of our leases and contracts through the use of litigation, we may have created ill will toward us on the part of certain lessees and other obligors who were defendants in such lawsuits. Our litigation strategy has also generated adverse publicity in certain circumstances. Adverse publicity could negatively impact public perception of our business and may materially impact the price of our common stock. In addition to legal proceedings that may arise out of our collection activities, we may face other litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increased interest rates may make our leases or contracts less profitable. Since we generally fund our leases and contracts through our credit facilities or from working capital, our operating margins could be adversely affected by an increase in interest rates. For example, borrowings under our amended credit facility bear interest either at Prime plus 1.75% or at LIBOR plus 3.75%, in each case subject to a minimum interest rate of 5% per year. The implicit yield on all of our leases and contracts is fixed due to the leases and contracts having scheduled payments that are fixed at the time of origination. When we originate or acquire leases or contracts, we base our pricing in part on the “spread” we expect to achieve between the implicit yield on each lease or contract and the effective interest cost we expect to pay when we finance such leases and contracts. Increases in interest rates during the term of each lease or contract could narrow or eliminate the spread, or result in a negative spread, to the extent such lease or contract was financed with variable-rate funding. We may undertake to hedge against the risk of interest rate increases, based on the size and interest rate profile of our portfolio. Such hedging activities, however, would limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. In addition, our hedging activities may not protect us from interest rate-related risks in all interest rate environments. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to realize our entire investment in the residual interests in the equipment covered by our leases. At the inception of a lease we record a residual value for the lease equipment as an asset based upon an estimate of the fair market value at lease maturity. There can be no assurance that our estimated residual values will be realized due to technological or economic obsolescence, unusual wear or tear on the equipment, or other factors. Failures to realize the recorded residual values may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face intense competition, which could cause us to lower our lease rates, hurt our origination volume and strategic position and adversely affect our financial results. The microticket leasing and financing industry is highly competitive. We compete for customers with a number of national, regional and local banks and finance companies. Our competitors also include equipment manufacturers that lease or finance the sale of their own products. While the market for microticket financing has traditionally been fragmented, we could also be faced with competition from small- or large-ticket leasing companies that could use their expertise in those markets to enter and compete in the microticket financing market. Our competitors include larger, more established companies, some of which may possess substantially greater financial, marketing and operational resources than us, including lower cost of funds and access to capital markets and other funding sources which may be unavailable to us. If a competitor were to lower its lease rates, we could be forced to follow suit or be unable to regain origination volume, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, competitors may seek to replicate the automated processes used by us to monitor dealer performance, evaluate lessee credit information, appropriately apply risk-adjusted pricing, and efficiently service a nationwide portfolio. The development of computer software similar to that developed by us may jeopardize our strategic position and allow our competitors to operate more efficiently than we do. 10 Table of Contents Government regulation could restrict our business. Our leasing business is not currently subject to extensive federal or state regulation. While we are not aware of any proposed legislation, the enactment of, or a change in the interpretation of, certain federal or state laws affecting our ability to price, originate or collect on receivables (such as the application of usury laws to our leases and contracts) could negatively affect the collection of income on our leases and contracts, as well as the collection of fee income. Any such legislation or change in interpretation, particularly in Massachusetts, whose laws govern the majority of our leases and contracts, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to originate leases and contracts at current levels of profitability, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes to the bankruptcy laws that would make it easier for lessees to file for bankruptcy could increase delinquency and defaults on the existing portfolio. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations required companies such as us that are not accelerated filers to comply with more stringent internal control system and monitoring requirements beginning as of the end of our fiscal year 2007, and will require us to have our independent auditors attest to these internal control system and monitoring requirements beginning with our annual report for 2009. Compliance with this new requirement has caused us to retain outside consultants to assist management in evaluating our internal control over financial reporting as well as requiring our management to spend a significant amount of time in evaluating the same. Continued compliance with this new requirement may place an expensive burden and significant time constraint on us. We may face risks in acquiring other portfolios and companies, including risks relating to how we finance any such acquisition or how we are able to assimilate any portfolios or operations we acquire. A portion of our growth strategy depends on the consummation of acquisitions of leasing companies or portfolios. Our inability to identify suitable acquisition candidates or portfolios, or to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, could limit our ability to grow our business. Any major acquisition would require a significant portion of our resources. The timing, size and success, if at all, of our acquisition efforts and any associated capital commitments cannot be readily predicted. We may finance future acquisitions by using shares of our common stock, cash or a combination of the two. Any acquisition we make using common stock would result in dilution to existing stockholders. If the common stock does not maintain a sufficient market value, or if potential acquisition candidates are otherwise unwilling to accept common stock as part or all of the consideration for the sale of their businesses, we may be required to utilize more of our cash resources, if available, or to incur additional indebtedness in order to initiate and complete acquisitions. Additional debt, as well as the potential amortization expense related to goodwill and other intangible assets incurred as a result of any such acquisition, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, our credit facilities contain covenants that place significant restrictions on our ability to acquire all or substantially all of the assets or securities of another company, including a limit on the aggregate dollar amount of such acquisitions of $10 million over the term of the facility. These provisions could prevent us from making an acquisition we may otherwise see as attractive, whether by using shares of our common stock as consideration or by using cash. We also may experience difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, services, products and personnel of acquired companies, an inability to sustain or improve the historical revenue levels of acquired companies, the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business operations, and the potential loss of key employees of such acquired companies. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we were to lose key personnel, our operating results may suffer or it may cause a default under our debt facilities. Our success depends to a large extent upon the abilities and continued efforts of Richard Latour, President and Chief Executive Officer and James R. Jackson, Jr., Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and our other senior management. We have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Latour and Mr. Jackson, as well as other members of our senior management. The loss of the services of one or more of the key members of our senior management before we are able to attract and retain qualified replacement personnel could have a material adverse 11 Table of Contents effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, under our Sovereign credit facility, an event of default would arise if Mr. Latour or Mr. Jackson were to leave their positions as our Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer, respectively, unless a suitable replacement were appointed within 90 days. Our failure to comply with these provisions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Certain provisions of our articles and bylaws may have the effect of discouraging a change in control or acquisition of the company. Our restated articles of organization and restated bylaws contain certain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a stockholder might consider favorable, including:(i) provisions authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock; (ii) providing for a Board of Directors with staggered terms; (iii) requiring super-majority or class voting to effect certain amendments to the articles and bylaws and to approve certain business combinations; (iv) limiting the persons who may call special stockholders’ meetings and; (v) establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholders’ meetings. In addition, certain provisions of Massachusetts law to which we are subject may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control or an unsolicited acquisition proposal. Our stock price may be volatile, which could limit our access to the equity markets and could cause you to incur losses on your investment. If our revenues do not grow or grow more slowly than we anticipate, or if operating expenditures exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, the market price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the market price of our common stock has been in the past and could in the future be materially and adversely affected for reasons unrelated to our specific business or results of operations. General market price declines or volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, short-term trading strategies of certain investors can also have a significant effect on the price of specific securities. In addition, the trading price of the common stock may be influenced by a number of factors, including the liquidity of the market for the common stock, investor perceptions of us and the equipment financing industry in general, variations in our quarterly operating results, interest rate fluctuations and general economic and other conditions. Moreover, the stock market has experienced significant price and value fluctuations, which have not necessarily been related to corporate operating performance. The volatility of the stock market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise funds in the public markets. There is no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends on our common stock in the future. During the fourth quarter of 2002, our Board of Directors suspended the payment of dividends on our common stock to comply with our banking agreements and we paid no dividends in the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004. During 2005, we declared dividends of $0.05 per share payable to shareholders of record on five dates, and a special dividend of $0.25 per share payable to shareholders of record on January 31, 2006. During 2006, 2007 and 2008, we declared dividends of $0.20 per share. Future dividend payments are subject to ongoing review and evaluation by our Board of Directors. The decision as to the amount and timing of future dividends we may pay, if any, will be made in light of our financial condition, capital requirements and growth plans, as well as our external financing arrangements and any other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant. We can give no assurance as to the amount and timing of the payment of future dividends. 