Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this Report, you should consider carefully the following factors, which describe the risks, uncertainties and other factors that may materially and adversely affect our business, products, financial condition and operating results. There are many factors that affect our business and our results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of important factors that may cause our actual results of operations in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or discussed in forward-looking statements set forth in this Report relating to our financial results, operations and business prospects. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which it is made. We may not be able to negotiate the sale of defined assets, including QLT USA or its assets, Eligard, Aczone and Atrigel, on terms acceptable to us or at all, and our Board of Directors may determine during and as a result of the process that we should not continue with the present strategy. We are in the process of seeking the sale of certain of our core and non-core assets under a strategic restructure. To date, we have not entered into any agreement for the sale of these assets or decided on which transactions or transaction structures would most benefit shareholders. The goal of maximizing shareholder value will drive any decisions we make regarding specific deal structures or transactions into which we may enter. We can provide no assurances that we will be able to negotiate the sale of any assets, on terms acceptable to us or at all or on terms which meet our or our shareholders’ expectations regarding the value of these assets or that we will pursue any particular transaction structure. In addition, we may incur tax obligations related to the divestitures and there is no assurance that any gains from the sale of Eligard, Aczone and Atrigel can be shielded by the existing pool of net operating losses in QLT USA. Further, we may determine during and as a result of the process that, based on the terms that may be offered for the sale of the Company or our assets, or upon conditions that may be imposed or may not be satisfied, as well as upon our Board of Directors’ ongoing assessment of various strategic alternatives available to the Company, we should implement different strategic restructuring initiatives including a sale of the Company. Even if we are able to negotiate and enter into definitive agreements for the sale of defined assets, including QLT USA or its assets, Eligard, Aczone and Atrigel, we may not be able to consummate the transactions contemplated by the definitive agreements. Even if we are able to negotiate and enter into definitive agreements for the sale of our assets on terms acceptable to us, the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the definitive agreements would likely be subject to the satisfaction of various conditions and contingencies, which may not be met and could result in our not being able to consummate the transactions contemplated by the definitive agreements. These conditions and contingencies customarily include the receipt of consents from third parties, especially in asset sales transactions in which third parties may have the right to not consent to the transfer of contractual rights. The process of pursuing multiple strategic transactions and initiatives simultaneously diverts the attention of our management and employees, increases our professional services expenses and may disrupt our operations. The process of pursuing a strategic transaction is generally a time-consuming process for the seller and demands the time and efforts of management and employees during the due diligence process with potential buyers, including management presentations and meetings with potential buyers, and the evaluation of bids from potential buyers. The demands of this process tend to be compounded in an auction process in which a seller is interacting with multiple bidders 26 Table of Contents simultaneously. The process we have undertaken may entail our pursuing multiple strategic transactions simultaneously, including the sale of our building facilities and adjacent land and the sale of QLT USA or its assets in one or more sales transactions or the sale of the entire Company, in auction processes. The diversion of our management’s and employees’ attention to these processes may disrupt our operations, including by adversely impacting the progress of our development efforts, our product sales and our relationships with partners or suppliers. We have increased our expenditures for professional services in connection with our evaluation of strategic alternatives. We also have engaged the investment banking firm, Goldman, Sachs & Co., to advise us in our evaluation of strategic alternatives and as we review and evaluate specific transaction proposals, which will receive additional fees upon the completion of certain transactions we may execute. We are undertaking significant strategic and organizational changes. Failure to manage disruption to our business or the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the last three years we have made significant changes to both management and organizational structure. In January 2008, in connection with an evaluation of strategic alternatives that our Board of Directors is conducting, we announced a significant strategic change to divest certain core and non-core assets and to focus the Company on our Visudyne franchise and our clinical development programs related to our punctal plug delivery technology and our photodynamic therapy dermatology technology. In connection with the strategic restructure we eliminated approximately 115 employment positions. Further reductions in force are expected in 2008 as the Company’s assets are divested under the restructuring. As a result of these changes and the uncertainty regarding the timing and effect of any of the strategic transactions we are pursuing, employee morale may be lower and we may lose or be unable to attract and retain key employees. The loss of key employees or our inability to attract employees could adversely impact our ongoing operations, including failure to achieve targets and advance our clinical development projects or impact our ability to effectively implement strategic transactions. We face intense competition, which may limit our commercial opportunities and our ability to generate revenues. We face intense competition against our current products as well as our technology under clinical development. The biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology. Competition in our industry occurs on many fronts, including developing and bringing new products to market before others, developing new technologies to improve existing products, developing new products to provide the same benefits as existing products at less cost, developing new products to provide benefits superior to those of existing products, and acquiring or licensing complementary or novel technologies from other pharmaceutical companies or individuals. We may be unable to contend successfully with current or future competitors. Our competitors include major pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies, many of which are large, well-established companies with access to financial, technical and marketing resources significantly greater than ours and substantially greater experience in developing and manufacturing products, conducting preclinical and clinical testing and obtaining regulatory approvals. Some of our competitors are also our collaborators. For example, Novartis, which has the marketing rights to our Visudyne product, also has rights to market Lucentis outside of the United States, a product that is competitive with Visudyne. Our competitors may develop or acquire new or improved products to treat the same conditions as our products treat, or may make technological advances that reduce their cost of production so that they may engage in price competition through aggressive pricing policies to secure a greater market share to our detriment. Our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop or acquire and market products that are more effective, have fewer or less severe adverse side effects, or are less expensive than our products. Competitors also may develop or acquire products that make our current or future products obsolete. In connection with our technology under clinical development, including our punctual plug drug delivery technology, our competitors may develop or obtain patent protection for products earlier than us, design around patented technology developed by us, obtain regulatory approval for such products before us, or develop more effective or less expensive products than us. Any of these events could have a significant negative impact on our business and financial results, including reductions in our market share and gross margins. If we do not sustain profitability, shareholders may lose their investment. We have incurred operating losses for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007. Our 2005 fiscal year was impacted by a $410.5 million non-cash charge for impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets that resulted from the Atrix acquisition, and our 2006 fiscal year was impacted by a litigation settlement charge of $112.5 million related to ongoing patent litigation. Our 2007 fiscal year was impacted by a litigation charge of $110.2 million related to the judgment in the litigation brought against us by Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary (“MEEI”). Our accumulated deficit at December 31, 2007 was approximately $714.5 million. We may incur additional losses in the future. If we are unable to achieve profitability in the future, our stock price may decline. 27 Table of Contents If there is an adverse outcome in our pending litigation or other legal actions, our business may be harmed. We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in litigation, and in the future we may become involved in various other legal actions in the ordinary course of our business. We are currently a defendant in a number of lawsuits filed against us or our subsidiaries, which, if not ultimately resolved in our favor, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and the market price of our shares. For example, in July 2007 the United States District Court (the “Court”) for the District of Massachusetts entered judgment against us in the litigation brought by MEEI. The Court found us liable under Massachusetts state law for unfair trade practices, but that such violation was not knowing or willful, and determined that we should pay to MEEI damages equal to 3.01% on past, present and future net sales worldwide of Visudyne. The Court also awarded interest at the Massachusetts statutory rate of 12% on the royalties as they would have become payable from April 24, 2000, and legal fees in the amount of $14.1 million, to which will be applied a reduction of $3 million previously agreed to by MEEI. The judgement led to a charge being recorded in the second quarter of 2007 of $110 million.. While we are appealing the judgement, the outcome of our appeal is uncertain and may be unfavorable. (See Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Item. 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) As has occurred in the MEEI litigation, litigation may result in excessive verdicts, which may include a judgment with significant monetary award, including the possibility of punitive damages, a judgment that certain of our patent or other intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable and, as occurred in 2006 in the U.S. litigation with TAP Pharmaceuticals, the risk that an injunction could be issued preventing the manufacture, marketing and sale of our products that are the subject of the litigation. Furthermore, we will have to incur substantial expense in defending these lawsuits and the time demands of these lawsuits could divert management’s attention from ongoing business concerns and interfere with our normal operations. (See Item 3. Legal Proceedings) In addition, the testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of human pharmaceutical products entail significant inherent risks of allegations of product liability. Our use of such products in clinical trials and our sale of Visudyne, Eligard, our other product candidates and related medical devices exposes us to liability claims allegedly resulting from the use of these products or devices. These risks exist even with respect to those products or devices that are approved for commercial sale by the FDA or applicable foreign regulatory authorities and manufactured in facilities licensed and regulated by those regulatory authorities. Our current insurance may not provide coverage or adequate coverage against potential claims, losses or damages resulting from such litigation. We also cannot be certain that our current coverage will continue to be available in the future on reasonable terms, if at all. If we were found liable for any claims in excess of our coverage or outside of our coverage, the cost and expense of such liability could materially harm our business and financial condition. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from sales of Visudyne and Eligard. If our planned sale of QLT USA and/or the Eligard product line is completed, Visudyne will be our primary source of revenue. Accordingly, any decrease in sales of Visudyne would harm our business. Our revenues to date have consisted largely of revenue from product sales of Visudyne and Eligard. If our planned sale of QLT USA and/or its Eligard product line is completed, Visudyne sales will constitute our primary source of revenue for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, any decrease in Visudyne product sales would harm our business and cause our financial results to be below expectations. Our products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by competitive changes, including generic competition. Product sales could also be adversely affected by other factors, including: • failure of ongoing clinical trials, • product manufacturing or supply interruptions, • the development of competitive products by other companies, • marketing or pricing actions by our competitors, • changes in the reimbursement or substitution policies of third-party payors, • changes in or withdrawal of regulatory approval for or the labeling of our products, • the outcome of disputes relating to patents, • disputes with our licensees, and • changes in laws that adversely affect our ability to market our products. 28 Table of Contents Our commercial success depends in part on the success of third parties to market our products. Our strategy for the development and commercialization of our products includes entering into various marketing arrangements with third parties, and our growth is dependent on the success of these third parties in performing their responsibilities under such arrangements. Our collaborative marketing arrangements with third parties are intended to provide such third parties with an economic incentive to succeed in performing their contractual responsibilities, but the amount and timing of resources to be devoted to these activities generally are not under our control. For example, a significant portion of our revenue depends on the efforts of Novartis to market and sell Visudyne. The terms of our agreement with Novartis, however, do not restrict Novartis from commercializing non-PDT products that could be competitive with Visudyne. Novartis entered into a license arrangement with Genentech, Inc. in which Novartis has been granted a license to the rights outside of the United States to Lucentis, a product that has been approved for the treatment of wet AMD, and is a competing product to Visudyne. In addition, Novartis is responsible for the marketing of Visudyne but our ability to control the amount of, and allocations to, marketing related expenditures by Novartis for Visudyne is limited. Third parties such as Novartis may not perform their obligations as expected and significant revenue may not be derived or sustained from such arrangements. To the extent such third parties do not perform adequately under our various agreements with them, the development and commercialization of our products may be delayed, may become more costly to us or may be terminated, and may require us to expend significant amounts of time and money to find new collaborators and structure alternative arrangements. In addition, disputes with a collaborator could delay a program on which we are working with the collaborator and could result in expensive arbitration or litigation, which may not be resolved in our favor. Our revenues depend on payment and reimbursement from third party payors, and if they reduce or refuse payment or reimbursement, the use and sales of our products will suffer, we may not increase our market share, and our revenues and profitability will suffer. The continuing efforts of governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care may negatively affect the sale of Visudyne, Eligard and our other products. Our ability to commercialize Visudyne, Eligard and our other products successfully will depend in part on the timeliness of and the extent to which adequate reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments is obtained from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations in the U.S. and foreign markets. Product sales, attempts to gain market share or introductory pricing programs of our competitors could require us to lower our prices, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We may be unable to set or maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved therapeutic products or newly approved product indications. In both the United States and some non-U.S. jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In the United States, new legislation may be proposed at the federal and state levels that would result in significant changes to the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. Effective January 2004, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act,, changed the methodology used to calculate reimbursement for drugs such as Visudyne and Eligard that are administered in physicians’ offices in a manner intended to reduce the amount that is subject to reimbursement. In addition, beginning in January 2006, the legislation directs the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, or “HHS,” to contract with procurement organizations to purchase physician-administered drugs from the manufacturers and provides physicians with the option to obtain drugs through these organizations as an alternative to purchasing from the manufacturers, which some physicians may find advantageous. These changes may also cause private insurers to reduce the amounts that they will pay for physician-administered drugs. In addition, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or “CMS”, the agency within HHS that administers Medicare and is responsible for reimbursement of the cost of Visudyne and Eligard, has asserted the authority of Medicare not to cover particular drugs if it determines that they are not “reasonable and necessary” for Medicare beneficiaries or to cover them at a lesser rate, comparable to that for drugs already reimbursed that CMS considers to be therapeutically comparable. Further federal and state proposals and healthcare reforms are likely. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation, by the possible effect of this legislation on amounts that private insurers will pay and by other healthcare reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future. Our applications or re-applications for reimbursement for any of our products may not result in approvals and our current reimbursement approvals for Visudyne, Eligard and our other products may be reduced or reversed in whole or in part. If we were to have reimbursement reduced or reversed, the market for the affected product may be materially impaired and could materially harm our business and future revenues from that product. For example, while we believe that the results seen in the Visudyne in occult, or “VIO,” study did not contradict results seen in prior studies, because the VIO study failed to meet its primary endpoint, there is a risk that reimbursement for Visudyne in the occult form of wet AMD could be re-evaluated in the U.S. and elsewhere by the applicable 29 Table of Contents governmental authorities. In April 2007, after reviewing the results in the VIO study, the CHMP recommended to the European Commission that the indication of the use of Visudyne® in the treatment of occult subfoveal CNV, secondary to AMD be deleted in Europe. In June 2007, the EMEA endorsed the recommendation by CHMP to delete the indication of Visudyne in the treatment of occult subfoveal CNV from the label for Visudyne in the EU. Reimbursement for Visudyne in the occult form of wet AMD has ceased in most European countries. If we do not successfully develop and launch replacements for our products that lose patent protection, our revenues may decline and we may not be able to compete effectively. Most of our products are covered by patents. Upon the expiration of the patents, our competitors may introduce products or, in the case of Atrigel, drug delivery technology, using the same technology. As a result of this possible increase in competition, we may need to lower our prices in order to maintain sales of our products or we may lose a competitive advantage and marketability of our products and technologies. If we fail to develop and successfully launch new products prior to the expiration of patents for our existing products, our revenue from those products could decline significantly. We may not be able to develop and successfully launch more advanced replacement products and/or drug delivery technologies before these and other patents expire. Competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry for new products is increasing and the amount required to be paid to acquire or in-license new products may be prohibitive and negatively affect our ability to successfully acquire or in-license new products. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability and the ability of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection on technologies, to preserve trade secrets, and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We have applied for and will continue to apply for patents for certain aspects of Visudyne, Eligard, Aczone and our other products and technology, including our punctal plug drug delivery technology. Such applications may not result in the issuance of any patents, and any patents now held or that may be issued may not provide us with a preferred position with respect to any product or technology. In addition, patents issued or licensed to us may be challenged successfully. In that event, to the extent a preferred position is conferred by such patents, any preferred position held by us would be lost. If we are unable to secure or to continue to maintain a preferred position, Visudyne, Eligard and our other products could become subject to competition from the sale of generic versions of our products in addition to the other competitive products discussed above. Patents issued or licensed to us may be infringed by the products or processes of other parties. The cost of enforcing our patent rights against infringers, if such enforcement is required, could be significant, and the time demands could interfere with our normal operations. It is also possible that a court may find us to be infringing validly issued patents of third parties. In that event, in addition to the cost of defending the underlying suit for infringement, we may have to pay license fees and/or damages and may be enjoined from conducting certain activities. Obtaining licenses under third-party patents can be costly, and such licenses may not be available at all. Under such circumstances, we may need to materially alter our products or processes or may lose the right to continue to manufacture and sell a product entirely for a period of time. Unpatented trade secrets, improvements, confidential know-how and continuing technological innovation are important to our scientific and commercial success. Although we attempt to and will continue to attempt to protect our proprietary information through reliance on trade secret laws and the use of confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, licensees, employees and consultants and other appropriate means, these measures may not effectively prevent disclosure of our proprietary information, and, in any event, others may develop independently, or obtain access to, the same or similar information. The incidence of wet AMD might be reduced if therapies currently in development or currently available prevent or reduce the risk of development of wet AMD which could adversely impact the sales of Visudyne. We are aware that Alcon has initiated a Phase III clinical trial to evaluate the use of Retaane (Anacortave Acetate) as a treatment for patients with the dry form of AMD who are at high risk of developing wet AMD, with the objective of preventing the occurrence of wet AMD. There are also a number of other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies conducting pre-clinical and clinical research towards other treatments for dry AMD. We are also aware of published reports of studies showing that supplemental vitamin therapies reduce the risk of development of wet AMD. If these studies show that new therapies are effective to treat dry AMD or if supplemental vitamin usage 30 Table of Contents becomes common place in patients with dry AMD, the incidence of wet AMD, which often develops in patients initially diagnosed with dry AMD, might be reduced, and Visudyne sales and our revenues could be materially reduced. We rely on third-party manufacturers, and difficulties with such third parties could delay future revenues from our products sales. We rely on several third parties in the U.S., Canada, Europe and Japan to manufacture Visudyne and Eligard and will rely on third parties to manufacture Aczone if it is commercialized. If such third parties fail to meet their respective contractual commitments, we may not be able to supply or continue to supply commercial quantities of the product or conduct certain future clinical testing. Currently, Nippon Fine Chemicals, JHP Pharmaceuticals, LLC (previously Parkedale Pharmaceuticals Inc.), Orgapharm S.A.S. and Hollister-Stier Laboratories LLC manufacture Visudyne or components thereof. Evonik Degussa Canada Inc., or “Degussa,” (formerly Degussa Canada, Inc. and formerly Raylo Chemicals Inc.) manufactured a material used in the production of Visudyne. As a result of the acquisition of Degussa by a third party, Degussa gave notice of its intention to terminate that manufacturing agreement, which termination we believe would be effective January 1, 2010 under the terms of the agreement. As we believe we currently have sufficient quantities of that material to meet our anticipated demand for Visudyne, on November 8, 2007 we entered into a termination agreement with Degussa permitting the termination of the manufacturing agreement effective December 15, 2007. We are in the process of identifying an alternative manufacturer for this material. If we are unable to locate and qualify an alternate manufacturer to Degussa, our future supply of Visudyne could be materially affected. Our agreement with Nippon Fine Chemicals is in effect for a term ending on December 31, 2008. Our agreement with JHP Pharmaceuticals, LLC. is in effect for a term expiring December 31, 2009. The agreement with Orgapharm is effective for a period of 5 years from the date of commercial approval of the Visudyne component by either the EU regulatory authorities, or the U.S. and the Canadian regulatory authorities, whichever is earlier. The agreement with Hollister-Stier is in effect for 5 years from the date of applicable regulatory approval for the component product, after which it will renew for additional 2 year periods unless one party provides the other with 36 months advance notice of its intention not to renew. For the manufacture of Eligard we rely on a number of manufacturers and suppliers, including Tolmar, Inc. and Chesapeake Biological Laboratories, Inc. We currently contract with Tolmar for the full manufacturing of the Eligard product, including the sterile filling and lyophilization process for the drug syringe, the manufacture of the delivery system syringe and final packaging of Eligard. We continue to maintain Chesapeake Biological Laboratories (another approved contract manufacturer) as an alternate to manufacture the filling and lyophilization of the drug syringe. Our contract with Tolmar is for a period of seven years commencing December 22, 2006, and automatically extends for successive terms of four years each, unless either party notifies the other party that it does not intend to renew this agreement at least three years prior to the last day of the then current term. Our contract with Chesapeake Biological Laboratories is for a period of two years commencing January 23, 2004, and automatically renews for additional one-year terms unless either party provides notice on non-renewal more than 90 days prior to termination, which has not occurred at this time. If we are unable to maintain agreements on favorable terms with any of our contract manufacturers for Visudyne or Eligard, or if we experience any disruption in the supply of materials required for the manufacture of our products, or if we fail to timely locate and obtain regulatory approval for additional or replacement manufacturers as needed, it could impair or prevent our ability to deliver our commercial products on a timely basis, or at all, or cause delays in our clinical trials and applications for regulatory approvals which in turn would materially and adversely harm our business and financial results and may result in claims against us from our licensees of the affected product. In addition, any loss of a manufacturer or any difficulties that could arise in the manufacturing process could significantly affect our inventories and supply of products available for sale. If we are unable to supply sufficient amounts of our products on a timely basis, our market share could decrease which could materially harm our business. If our contract manufacturers fail to comply with FDA and other foreign regulatory requirements or with our product specifications, we may be unable to meet demand for our products and may lose potential revenue and be subject to claims from our licensees. Our ability to commercialize Visudyne, Eligard and our other products, or to conduct clinical trials with our products, either directly or in conjunction with others, depends, in large part, on our ability to have such products 31 Table of Contents manufactured at a competitive cost and in accordance with FDA and other foreign regulatory requirements, including FDA Good Manufacturing Practices, as well as our product specifications which could significantly adversely affect our product inventories and our ability to have product available for commercial sale. Our contract manufacturers’ manufacturing and quality procedures may not achieve or maintain compliance with applicable FDA and other foreign regulatory standards or product specifications, and, even if they do, we may be unable to produce or continue to produce commercial quantities of Visudyne, Eligard and our other products at an acceptable cost or margin. If current manufacturing processes are modified, or the source or location of our product supply is changed (voluntarily or involuntarily), regulatory authorities will require us to demonstrate that the material produced from the modified or new process or facility is equivalent to the material used in the clinical trials or products previously approved. Any such modifications to the manufacturing process or supply may not achieve or maintain compliance with the applicable regulatory requirements or our product specifications. In many cases, prior approval by regulatory authorities may be required before any changes can be instituted. If our contract manufacturers produce one or more product batches that do not conform to FDA or other regulatory requirements, or our product specifications, or if they introduce changes to their manufacturing processes, our manufacturing expenses may increase materially, our product inventories may be reduced to unacceptable levels or entirely, we may lose market share, and/or our ability to meet demand for Visudyne, Eligard and our other products may be materially and adversely impacted, which may cause us to lose potential revenue and become subject to claims from our licensees. In the field of Photodynamic Therapy, or PDT, we are dependent on the success and continued supply of third-party medical device companies with complementary light source and light delivery devices by third party suppliers. We currently depend on third-party suppliers, Carl Zeiss-Meditec, Lumenis and Quantel to provide the laser light delivery devices for Visudyne therapy and to service such devices. Because PDT requires a light source, and in some instances a light delivery system, to be used in conjunction with our photosensitizers, we are dependent on the success of these medical device companies in placing and maintaining light sources with the appropriate medical facilities, in distributing the light delivery systems and servicing such systems as required. Carl Zeiss-Meditic, Lumenis and Quantel supply such lasers to treating physicians directly, and neither QLT nor Novartis has a supply or distribution agreement with either Carl Zeiss-Meditic, Lumenis or Quantel for the supply of such devices. The relationship between our Company or Novartis and such suppliers, under which we or Novartis provides support and assistance to such suppliers, is an informal collaboration only. If one or more of the medical device companies with whom we or Novartis have such collaborations cease to carry on business, or if they no longer supply complementary light sources or light delivery systems or if they or we are unable to achieve the appropriate placements of light sources and ensure an uninterrupted supply and ongoing maintenance of light delivery systems to treating physicians, sales of Visudyne and our revenues from the sale of Visudyne may be materially adversely affected. The expected lifecycle of the laser light delivery devices for Visudyne therapy is approximately five to ten years. Therefore, in the coming years, we expect that many of these lasers will need significant upgrades or will need to be replaced. Customers may decide not to invest in purchasing a new laser in light of emerging competitive therapies which do not require a medical device and this could negatively impact our future sales of Visudyne, possibly materially. If our supply of Visudyne or Eligard is interrupted, our ability to maintain our inventory levels could suffer and our future revenues may be reduced. Any interruption in the supply of finished products could hinder our ability to timely distribute Visudyne and Eligard. If we are unable to obtain adequate product supplies to satisfy our customers’ or licensees’ orders, we may lose those orders and our customers or licensees may cancel other orders and seek monetary compensation or exercise their other remedies permitted under the agreement. In addition, customers or licensees may decide to stock and sell competing products, which in turn could cause a loss of our market share and materially adversely affect our revenues. Numerous factors could cause interruptions in the supply of our finished products, including shortages in raw material required by our manufacturers, changes in our sources for manufacturing, the failure of our manufacturers to comply with FDA and foreign regulatory authorities requirements for the manufacture of our product or our product specifications, our failure to timely locate and obtain regulatory approval for additional or 32 Table of Contents replacement manufacturers as needed, disputes with our contract manufacturers and conditions affecting the cost and availability of raw materials and manufacturing processes. Inherent uncertainties associated with forecasting product demand and future product launch and other factors could result in our inventory becoming obsolete or reduced, possibly materially, in market value. We maintain levels of inventory of raw materials, intermediates and finished product based upon various factors including our forecasted demand for products, anticipated commercial launch of new products, minimum contractual requirements with third party suppliers and as we consider appropriate for supply chain management and security. Some of our inventory has a limited “shelf life” for use or optimal use or sale. If our inventory exceeds forecasted demand, or if we are unable to use our inventory or use it during its shelf life due to delay in or failure to launch a product, withdrawal of a product from the market or delays in, or termination of agreements for, the marketing and sale of our products by third parties, our inventory may become obsolete or decline, possibly materially, in market value. As a result, we may not be able to resell our inventory at a price equal to its full value or recovery of our costs, or at all. If the facilities storing our inventory are damaged or destroyed, our ability to meet market demand for our products could be significantly affected. We rely on our contract manufacturers and commercial licensees to store our product inventory and related raw materials and intermediates. Any one of these facilities may store a significant amount of our inventory at one time and or may be the only available source of an item of inventory. Damage or destruction to these storage facilities, such as from fire, flood, earthquake or other natural disaster or otherwise, could result in significant write-down to our inventory and may impair our ability to deliver our commercial products on a timely basis or at all. If the supply of our products is interrupted, our sales and market share could decrease which could materially harm our business. The growth of our business depends in part on our ability to successfully identify, acquire on favorable terms, and assimilate technologies, products or businesses. From time to time, we may engage in negotiations to expand our operations and market presence by future product, technology or other acquisitions and business combinations, joint ventures or other strategic alliances with other companies, such as our acquisition of ForSight Newco II, Inc. (now QLT Plug Delivery, Inc.) in October 2007. We may not be successful in identifying, initiating or completing such negotiations. Competition for attractive product acquisition or alliance targets can be intense, and we may not succeed in completing such transactions on terms that are acceptable to us. Even if we are successful in these negotiations, these transactions create risks, including: • difficulties in and costs associated with assimilating the operations, technologies, personnel and products of an acquired business, • assumption of known or unknown liabilities or other unanticipated events or circumstances, • the potential disruption to our ongoing business, and • the potential negative impact on our earnings. Any of these risks could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability for acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of the transaction. We rely on our employees and consultants to keep our trade secrets confidential. We rely on trade secrets and unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation in developing and manufacturing our products. We require each of our employees, contract manufacturers, and certain consultants and advisors to enter into confidentiality agreements prohibiting them from taking our proprietary information and technology or from using or disclosing proprietary information to third parties except in specified circumstances. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets and proprietary know-how that is used or disclosed. Despite all of the precautions we may take, people who are not parties to confidentiality agreements may obtain access to our trade secrets or know-how. In addition, others may independently develop similar or equivalent trade secrets or know-how. 33 Table of Contents Our products in clinical trials may not achieve favorable results, may fail to achieve or maintain regulatory approvals or market acceptance, or may encounter difficulties with proprietary rights or manufacturing, any of which could adversely affect our prospects for future revenue growth. Our success depends on our ability to successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval to market new pharmaceutical products, including our punctal plug drug delivery technology. Development of a product requires substantial technical, financial and human resources even if such product development is not successfully completed. The research and development process is expensive, prolonged and entails considerable uncertainty. Notwithstanding the outcome of clinical trials for new products, regulatory approval may not be achieved. Development of a new product, from discovery through testing and registration to initial product launch, typically takes between eight and fifteen years or more for a pharmaceutical product. Each of these periods varies considerably from product to product and country to country. Because of the complexities and uncertainties associated with research and development and in some cases the complexity of the technology itself, products we are currently developing may not complete the development process or we may not obtain the regulatory approvals required for us to market such products successfully, or at all. In addition, we might fail to obtain the additional regulatory approvals we are seeking to expand our product line or, in the case of Visudyne, the use of our product in combination with other therapies and the indications for which our products are approved. Those approvals may be delayed, may not be obtained or may be more limited than anticipated. Delays and uncertainties in the clinical development and regulatory approval process could adversely affect our prospects and future revenue growth. If we do not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we announce and expect, the commercialization of our products may be delayed and, as a result, our business could be materially harmed. From time to time, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development goals, which we sometimes refer to as milestones. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission of regulatory filings. From time to time, we publicly announce the expected timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, or they might not be achieved, in some cases for reasons beyond our control. If we do not meet or achieve these milestones, the commercialization of our products may be delayed or never achieved and, as a result, our business could be materially harmed. Visudyne, Eligard or our other products may exhibit adverse side effects that prevent their widespread use or that necessitate withdrawal from the market. Even after approval by the FDA and other regulatory authorities, Visudyne, Eligard or our other products may later exhibit adverse side effects that prevent widespread use or necessitate withdrawal from the market. Undesirable side effects not previously observed during clinical trials could emerge in the future. The manifestation of such side effects could materially harm our business. In some cases, regulatory authorities may require labeling changes that could add warnings or restrict usage based on adverse side effects seen after marketing a drug. If we fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements it will materially harm our business. Our commercial products and our products under development are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation for safety, efficacy and quality by the U.S. federal government, principally the FDA, and by state and local governments and by foreign regulatory authorities in jurisdictions in which Visudyne, Eligard and our other products are sold or used in clinical development. The regulatory clearance process is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. We may not be able to obtain, or continue to obtain, necessary regulatory clearances or approvals on a timely basis, or at all, for any of our commercial products or any of our products under development, and delays in receipt or failure to receive such clearances or approvals, the loss of previously received clearances or approvals, or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business and our financial condition. Drugs manufactured or distributed pursuant to the FDA’s approval are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA, certain state agencies and various foreign governmental regulatory agencies such as the EMEA, among others. Manufacturers are subject to inspection by the FDA and regulatory agencies from other jurisdictions. We must comply with a host of regulatory requirements that usually apply to drugs marketed in the U.S. and elsewhere, to our clinical development programs and to investigator sponsored studies that we may from time-to-time support, including but not limited to labeling regulations, Good Manufacturing Practice requirements, adverse event reporting and general prohibitions against promoting products for unapproved or “off-label” uses imposed by the FDA and regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions. Our failure to comply with applicable requirements could result in sanctions being imposed on us. These sanctions could include warning letters, fines, product recalls or seizures, injunctions, refusals to permit products to be imported into or exported out of the U.S. or elsewhere, FDA or other regulatory agency refusal to grant approval of drugs or to allow us to enter into 34 Table of Contents governmental supply contracts, withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications and criminal prosecutions. We, our contract manufacturers, all of our subsuppliers, as well as the suppliers of the medical lasers required for Visudyne and other PDT therapy, are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. In addition, advertising and promotional materials relating to medical devices and drugs are, in certain instances, subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission, the FDA and other regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions. We, our contract manufacturers, subsuppliers and laser suppliers may be required to incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations in the future, and such laws or regulations may materially harm our business. Unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements, the failure of us, or any of these manufacturers, subsuppliers or suppliers to comply with such requirements or the adoption of new requirements could materially harm our business. As noted above, all of our contract manufacturers must comply with the applicable FDA cGMP regulations and requirements of foreign regulatory authorities in jurisdictions in which our products are sold or used in clinical development, which include quality control and quality assurance requirements as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. If our contract manufacturers do not comply with the applicable cGMP regulations and other applicable regulatory requirements, the availability of Visudyne and Eligard for sale could be reduced or we may be unable to supply product at all for an uncertain amount of time, which could be significant, and we could suffer delays in the progress of clinical trials for products under development. We do not have full control over our third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. The loss of a contract manufacturer could have a negative effect on our sales, margins and market share, as well as our overall business and financial results. In the future, if we are involved directly in the marketing or promotion of our products, our activities relating to the sale and marketing of our products are subject to regulation under the U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal statutes. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). We are also subject to various U.S. federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, receive, or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions, it is possible that our practices might be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payers (including Medicare and Medicaid) claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). If a court were to find us liable for violating these laws, or if the government were to allege against or convict us of violating these laws, there could be a material adverse effect on our business and our financial condition. Our use of hazardous materials exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities, and we may incur substantial additional costs to comply with environmental laws. Our research, development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous chemicals, primarily flammable solvents, corrosives, and toxins. The biologic materials include microbiological cultures, animal tissue and serum samples. Some experimental and clinical materials include human source tissue or fluid samples. We are subject to federal, state/provincial and local government regulation in the use, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous and radioactive materials. If any of these materials resulted in contamination or injury, or if we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be subject to fines and other liabilities, and any such liabilities could exceed our resources. Our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses related to our use of any such materials, and we cannot be certain that our current insurance coverage will continue to be available on reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, any new regulation or change to an existing regulation could require us to implement costly capital or operating improvements for which we have not budgeted. 35 Table of Contents Our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate may vary significantly and may adversely affect our results of operations and cash resources. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. Various internal and external factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our future provision for income taxes, income taxes receivable, and or effective income tax rate. These factors include but are not limited to changes in tax laws, regulations and/or rates, results of audits by tax authorities, changing interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations, changes in estimates of prior years’ items, future levels of R&D spending, changes in the overall mix of income among the different jurisdictions in which we operate, and changes in overall levels of income before taxes. For example, we have recognized the full tax benefit associated with the MEEI litigation damages award in our Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent that the taxation authorities do not agree with our tax position, we may not be able to realize all or a portion of the tax benefit recognized. Furthermore, new accounting pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements (such as those described in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Report) can have a material impact on our effective income tax rate. The Company and its subsidiaries file income tax returns and pay income taxes in jurisdictions where we believe we are subject to tax. In jurisdictions in which the Company and its subsidiaries do not believe we are subject to tax and therefore do not file income tax returns, we can provide no certainty that tax authorities in those jurisdictions will not subject one or more tax years (since inception of the Company or its subsidiaries) to examination. Tax examinations are often complex as tax authorities may disagree with the treatment of items reported by the Company, the result of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may need additional capital in the future, and our prospects for obtaining it are uncertain. Our business may not generate the cash necessary to fund our operations and anticipated growth. The amount required to fund additional operating expenses will also depend on other factors, including the status of competitive products, the success of our research and development programs, the extent and success of any collaborative research arrangements, any amounts we may be required to pay in connection with any ongoing litigation as a result of an adverse court decision or any settlement agreement that we may enter into, and the results of product, technology or other acquisitions or business combinations. We could seek additional funds in the future from a combination of sources, including product licensing, joint development, sale of assets, land or buildings and other financing arrangements. In addition, we may issue debt or equity securities if we determine that additional cash resources could be obtained under favorable conditions or if future development funding requirements cannot be satisfied with available cash resources. Additional capital may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Our indebtedness and debt service obligations will require a significant amount of cash and may adversely affect our financial position and cash resources. As of December 31, 2007, we had $172.5 million of convertible debt outstanding, bearing interest at the rate of 3% per annum, payable semi-annually, and due in 2023. On each of September 15, 2008, 2013 and 2018, holders of the notes may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes for cash at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, that date. On the occurrence of certain events, such as a change in control or termination of trading, holders of the notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes for cash at a price equal to the principal amount plus accrued unpaid interest to, but excluding, the repurchase date. The notes also become immediately due and payable upon certain events of default by us. If the holders of the convertible debt elect to require repayment of the debt instead of conversion to our common shares, our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including our convertible debt obligation, and to fund planned capital expenditures, R&D, as well as stock repurchases and any expansion efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are and will remain beyond our control. Additionally, our indebtedness may increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, R&D, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes, and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Our operating results may fluctuate, which may cause our financial results to be below expectations and the market price of our securities to decline. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons some of which are beyond our control. A revenue shortfall or increase in operating expenses could arise from any number of factors, such as: • lower than expected revenues from sales of Visudyne or Eligard, • changes in pricing strategies or reimbursement levels for Visudyne or Eligard, 36 Table of Contents • seasonal fluctuations, particularly in the third quarter due to decreased demand for Visudyne in the summer months, • high levels of marketing expenses for Visudyne or the launch of additional competitors to Visudyne or Eligard, • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, • unfavorable outcome of the German Eligard patent litigation commenced against QLT USA, Inc.’s German licensees by Takeda Chemical industries Ltd. and Takeda Pharma Gmbh, • unfavorable outcome in the appeal of the judgment of the District Court in the litigation commenced by MEEI against us, • higher than expected operating expenses as a result of increased costs associated with the development or commercialization of Visudyne, Eligard, Aczone and our other products and candidates, • increased operating expenses as a result of product, technology or other acquisitions or business combinations, and • divestment of Eligard and other revenue producing assets. Even a relatively small revenue shortfall may cause a period’s results to be below our expectations or projections, which in turn may cause the market price of our securities to drop significantly and the value of your investment to decline. The market price of our common shares is extremely volatile and the value of your investment could decline. The market prices for securities of biopharmaceutical companies, including QLT, have been and are likely to continue to be extremely volatile. As a result, investors in companies such as ours often buy at high prices only to see the price drop substantially a short time later, resulting in an extreme drop in value in the holdings of these investors. Factors such as announcements of fluctuations in our or our competitors’ operating results, changes in our prospects and general market conditions for biopharmaceutical stocks could have a significant impact on the future trading prices of our common shares. In particular, trading prices of the securities of many biopharmaceutical companies, including us, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations which have at times been unrelated to the operating performance of the companies whose securities were affected. Our announcements that we are engaged in an ongoing evaluation of strategic alternatives and the initiatives planned to be implemented in connection with our strategic restructure, and any future announcements that we may make regarding potential initiatives and transactions undertaken pursuant to the restructuring process, may increase the volatility of the market price of our common shares. Some of the other factors that may cause volatility in the price of our securities include: • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, • developments or outcome of litigation, including litigation regarding proprietary and patent rights, • regulatory developments or delays concerning our products, • quarterly variations in our financial results, • business and product market cycles, • fluctuations in customer requirements, • the availability and utilization of manufacturing capacity and our ability to continue to supply Visudyne, Eligard and our other products, • the timing and amounts of royalties paid to us by third parties, and • issues with the safety or effectiveness of our products. The price of our common shares may also be adversely affected by the estimates and projections of the investment community, general economic and market conditions, and the cost of operations in our product markets. These factors, either individually or in the aggregate, could result in significant variations in the trading prices of our common shares. Volatility in the trading prices of our common shares could result in securities class action litigation. Any litigation would likely result in substantial costs, and divert our management’s attention and resources. Various provisions of our charter and our shareholder rights plan may impede a change in control that is beneficial to our shareholders. We have a shareholder rights plan that will be in effect until our annual general meeting of shareholders in May 2008. The plan generally requires that anyone who seeks to acquire 20% or more of our outstanding common shares to make a bid complying with specific provisions included in the plan. In certain circumstances, holders of common 37 Table of Contents shares may acquire additional shares of QLT (or those of the acquirer) at a 50% discount from the then-prevailing market price. The provisions of the plan could prevent or delay the acquisition of our company by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise, even though a change of control might involve a premium price for our shareholders or might otherwise be in our shareholders’ best interest. Our authorized preference share capital is available for issuance from time to time at the discretion of our board of directors, without shareholder approval. Our charter grants the board of directors the authority, subject to the corporate laws of British Columbia, to determine or alter the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions granted to or imposed on any wholly unissued series of preference shares, including any dividend rate, voting rights, conversion privileges or redemption or liquidation rights. The rights of any future series of preference shares could have an adverse effect on the holders of our common shares by delaying or preventing a change of control, making removal of the present management more difficult or resulting in restrictions on the payment of dividends and other distributions to the holders of common shares. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 