Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this Report, you should consider carefully the following factors, which describe the risks, uncertainties and other factors that may materially and adversely affect our business, products, financial condition and operating results. There are many factors that affect our business and our results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of important factors that may cause our actual results of operations in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or discussed in forward-looking statements set forth in this Report relating to our financial results, operations and business prospects. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which it is made. We are exploring and evaluating strategic alternatives for the Company and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, or completing any strategic alternative, that any such strategic alternative will yield additional value for shareholders or that the process will not have an adverse impact on our business. In December 2014, we retained Greenhill and our Board of Directors commenced a review of our strategic alternatives, which could result in, among other things, a sale of the Company, a merger, consolidation or business combination, asset divestiture, partnering or other collaboration agreements, or potential acquisitions or recapitalizations, in one or more transactions, in addition to continuing to operate the Company in the ordinary course of business. However, there can be no assurance that the exploration of strategic alternatives will result in the identification or consummation of any transaction. In addition, we expect to incur substantial expenses associated with identifying and evaluating potential strategic alternatives. The process of exploring strategic alternatives may be time consuming and disruptive to our business operations and if we are unable to effectively manage the process, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. For example, as a result of our strategic alternatives process, while we were paid aggregate termination fees of $31.1 million upon the termination of the Auxilium Merger Agreement in 2014 and the termination of the InSite Merger Agreement in 2015, we were unable to complete the transactions and we expended substantial time, expenses and management and other personnel resources on the transactions. Greenhill continues to act as our financial advisor to assist our Board of Directors to reassess the Company’s strategic options. No decision has been made with respect to any transaction and we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and undertake any transaction that allows our shareholders to realize an increase in the value of their stock or provide any guidance on the timing of such action, if any. We also cannot assure you that any potential transaction or other strategic alternative, if identified, evaluated and consummated, will provide greater value to our shareholders than that reflected in the current stock price. Any potential transaction would be dependent upon a number of factors that may be beyond our control, including, among other factors, market conditions, industry trends, the interest of third parties in our business and the availability of financing to potential buyers on reasonable terms. We have limited management and staff and our failure to attract or retain key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate. In connection with our strategic restructuring in 2012, we implemented a significant reduction in our work force, followed by additional reductions in 2013 and 2014. As of February 18, 2016, we have 23 employees. We depend, and will continue to depend in the foreseeable future, on the services of our executive management team and other key personnel. The ability to retain officers and key employees is critical to our success and growth. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on our business. In addition, our success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced scientific, clinical, manufacturing and other personnel. Competition for many of these professionals is intense. Any failure to attract or retain key personnel could result in unexpected delays in the development of our synthetic oral retinoid program, QLT091001, or could otherwise negatively impact our business. As a result, these factors may adversely impact our business and result of operations. Further, due to our limited number of employees, we expect that we will continue to require the services of independent consultants and contractors to perform various professional services, including clinical, regulatory, 27 Table of Contents supply chain and other commercial services. If we experience significant delays in obtaining the services of such third parties or such parties do not perform as expected, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We currently do not generate revenues from continuing operations and we continue to incur significant operating expenses. In order to fund our operations or strategic transactions, we may need additional capital in the future, and our prospects for obtaining the requisite amount of capital are uncertain. We divested certain non-core assets in 2008 and 2009, sold assets related to our Visudyne business to Valeant in September 2012, and sold assets related to our PPDS Technology to Mati in April 2013. These transactions generated significant cash but we no longer generate revenues from the sale of those products and we will not generate any revenues from our products in development until such time, if ever, that they are approved for sale. Further, in addition to the $200.0 million return of capital we completed in June 2013, our cash resources recently declined for a $45.0 million investment in common shares of Aralez Canada on February 5, 2016, which shares we expect to distribute to our shareholders as a return of capital. Going forward, we may continue to incur significant operating expenses and, as a result, may not be able to fund our operations or any anticipated growth beyond the near term. This may require us to delay, scale back, or eliminate some or all of our activities or to relinquish greater or all rights to product candidates at an earlier stage of development or on less favorable terms than we would otherwise choose, and, if we are unable to obtain additional financing, this may adversely affect our ability to operate as a going concern. The amount required to fund future operations will depend on many factors, including the success of our research and development programs, the extent and success of any collaborative research arrangements, and the results of product, technology or other acquisitions or business combinations. We could seek additional funds in the future from a combination of sources, including out-licensing, joint development, sale of assets and other financing arrangements. In addition, we may issue debt or equity securities if we determine that additional cash resources could be obtained under favorable conditions, if the $20.0 million capital contribution under our Share Purchase and Registration Rights Agreement is not consummated or if future development funding requirements cannot be satisfied with available cash resources. The terms of any financing arrangements we enter into may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of our shareholders and the issuance of additional securities, whether equity or debt, by us, or the possibility of such issuance, may cause the market price of our shares to decline. The sale of additional equity or convertible securities would dilute all of our shareholders. The availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit and the availability of credit to our industry, the volume of trading activities, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. As a result of any or all of these factors, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The distribution of the Aralez Shares may not occur. On December 7, 2015, we and a number of other co-investors entered into the Amended and Restated Share Subscription Agreement with Tribute, POZEN and Aralez Ireland and Aralez Canada and on February 5, 2016, we completed a $45.0 million investment in common shares of Aralez Canada. We currently intend to effect a special election distribution to each of our shareholders, payable at the election of each such shareholder in either Aralez Shares or cash, subject to proration to reflect a maximum cash component of $15 million (the “Aralez Cash Consideration”). We currently anticipate effecting the Aralez Distribution through a reorganization of our capital pursuant to a statutory Plan of Arrangement if a Plan of Arrangement is approved by our shareholders at the upcoming Special Meeting. If the Plan of Arrangement is not approved by our shareholders at the Special Meeting, we may effect the Aralez Distribution by way of a dividend. Although it is our current intention to effect the Aralez Distribution, we are under no obligation to make the Aralez Distribution to our shareholders and our Board of Directors may determine that the Aralez Distribution is not in our best interests and accordingly that 28 Table of Contents such distribution will not occur in the near term or at all. Further, our ability to distribute the Aralez Cash Consideration is entirely dependent on the completion of the transactions under the Backstop Agreement, and if the transactions contemplated under the Backstop Agreement are not completed for any reason, it is anticipated that, if the Aralez Distribution proceeds, shareholders would receive their entire pro rata entitlement to the Aralez Distribution in Aralez Shares, notwithstanding that they may have elected to receive cash. See Item 1. Business – Overview – Strategic Initiatives – 2015 section for more information on these transactions. The transactions contemplated by the Share Purchase and Registration Rights Agreement may not be consummated; if the share issuance is consummated, it may be on terms that are below the then-current market price of our common shares. On June 8, 2015, we announced that we had entered into a Share Purchase and Registration Rights Agreement with a number of investors providing for the contemplated issuance of QLT common shares to such investors in exchange for an aggregate cash purchase price of $20.0 million, which reflects a per share price of $1.87. This cash would be available to fund our on-going operations. The closing of the share issuance contemplated by the Share Purchase and Registration Rights Agreement is subject to a number of conditions, some of which are outside our control. Accordingly, there can be no guarantee that the transactions contemplated by such agreement will be consummated and that the $20.0 million of capital will be made available to us. In addition, because the Share Purchase and Registration Rights Agreement contemplates the issuance of the QLT common shares at a fixed purchase price, the purchase price may be lower than the then-current market price of QLT’s common shares at the time of issuance. We believe that we may be deemed a passive foreign investment company for the taxable year ended December 31, 2015, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders and may deter certain U.S. investors from purchasing our stock, which could have an adverse impact on our stock price. Based on the price of our common shares and the composition of our assets, we believe that we may be deemed a “passive foreign investment company” (“PFIC”) for United States federal income tax purposes for the taxable year ended December 31, 2015. We also believe that we may be deemed a PFIC for the taxable years ended December 31, 2008 through 2014, and we may be a PFIC in future years. A non-U.S. corporation generally will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes in any taxable year in which, after applying relevant look-through rules with respect to the income and assets of subsidiaries, either 75% or more of its gross income is “passive income” or 50% or more of the average value of its assets consists of assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. If we were a PFIC for any taxable year during a U.S. Holder’s holding period for our common shares, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. Holder, as that term is defined in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Certain Canadian and U.S. Federal Income Tax Information for U.S. Residents – U.S. Federal Income Tax Information – U.S. Holders in this Report, including on a return of capital to such U.S. Holders. In addition, our PFIC status may deter certain U.S. investors from purchasing our stock, which could have an adverse impact on our stock price. If we do not achieve our projected development goals in the timeframes we expect and announce, marketing approval and commercialization of our product candidates may be delayed and our credibility may be adversely affected and, as a result, our stock price may decline. For strategic and operational planning purposes, we may estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development goals. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission of regulatory filings. From time to time, we may publicly announce the expected timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in many cases for reasons beyond our control. If we do not meet these milestones as publicly announced, the market approval and commercialization of our product candidates may be delayed and our credibility may be adversely affected and, as a result, our stock price may decline. 29 Table of Contents Our success is dependent upon obtaining regulatory approval for our product candidates for QLT091001. The regulatory approval process is costly and lengthy and we may not be able to successfully obtain all required regulatory approvals. If we fail to obtain all required regulatory approvals, our business may suffer. As part of the regulatory approval process, we must conduct, at our own expense, preclinical studies and clinical trials on humans for each product candidate. Generally, in order to gain approval for a product, we must provide the FDA and other applicable regulatory authorities with clinical data that adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of that product for the intended disease or condition applied for in the NDA or respective regulatory file. We expect the number and size of clinical trials that the regulatory authorities will require will vary depending on the product candidate, the disease or condition the product is being developed to address, the expected size of the patient population and regulations applicable to the particular product. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. Further, the approval procedure varies among countries and can involve different testing or data review. Drug development is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and delay or failure can occur at any stage in our clinical trials. Product candidates that appear promising in research or development may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development or the market for several reasons, including: • preclinical studies show the product to be toxic or lack efficacy in animal models; • the interim or final results of clinical trials are inconclusive, negative, or not as favorable as results of previous trials, or show the product candidate to be less safe or effective than desired; • patients die or experience adverse side effects or events for a variety of reasons, including those related to our product candidates or due to the patient’s advanced stage of disease or medical problems, which may or may not be related to our product candidates; • the FDA, EMA or other regulatory authorities do not permit us to proceed with a clinical trial protocol or a clinical trial, or place a clinical trial on hold; • delay in commencing clinical trials due to review of clinical trial protocols, and amendments thereto, by FDA, EMA and ethics committees; • the data and safety monitoring committee of a clinical trial recommends that a trial be placed on hold or suspended; • our trial design is inadequate for demonstration of safety and/or efficacy; • the FDA, EMA or other regulatory authorities determine that any study endpoints used in clinical trials are not sufficient for movement into a next stage clinical trial or for product approval; • delay in or failure to enroll or retain a sufficient number of patients, or difficulty diagnosing, identifying and recruiting suitable patients, including, for example, due to the rarity of the disease being studied; • inability to attract or retain personnel with appropriate expertise; • third party clinical investigators do not perform our clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol or other third-party organizations do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; • difficulties formulating the product or otherwise obtaining sufficient quantities of the product to complete clinical trials; • inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of the product candidate which conform to design and performance specifications; • our clinical trial expenditures are greater than anticipated or are constrained by our budgetary considerations; • changes in governmental regulations, policies or administrative actions; or 30 Table of Contents • regulatory inspections of our clinical trials or manufacturing facilities, which may, among other things, require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our clinical trials if investigators find us not to be in compliance with regulatory requirements. For example, a significant challenge for our clinical trials of QLT091001 for the treatment of Inherited Retinal Disease has been and will likely continue to be patient recruitment due to the small population of patients with LCA and RP, and in particular with the specific genetic mutations causing LCA and RP we are currently investigating. The challenge in recruiting subjects from this small population is further exacerbated by the lack of public awareness of such conditions and resulting delay in (or lack of) available genetic testing and diagnosis. Further, patients may be discouraged from enrolling in our clinical trials if the trial protocol requires them to undergo extensive procedures to assess the safety and effectiveness of our products, or they may be persuaded to participate in contemporaneous trials of competitive products. In addition, approval of a product for the treatment of IRD (LCA and RP) currently under development by our competitors could further hinder our ability to recruit and/or retain subjects in our clinical trials. Delay in, or failure of, enrollment of sufficient patients or failure of patients to continue to participate in a study may cause an increase in costs and delays or result in the failure of the trial. Our clinical trial costs will also increase if we have material delays in our clinical trials for other reasons or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than anticipated. From time to time, we engage in discussions with the FDA, EMA and other regulatory authorities to determine the regulatory requirements for our development programs. These discussions may include deliberations on number and size of clinical trials, definition of patient population, study end points and safety. The final determination on these matters by the applicable regulatory authority may be difficult to predict, in particular where there are no approved precedents to establish drug development norms in a particular class of drug disease area, such as orphan drug development, and may be different, including more onerous, than we anticipated, which may delay, limit or prevent approval of our product candidates. The FDA, EMA and other regulatory authorities also have substantial discretion in deciding whether any of our product candidates should be granted approval for the treatment of the particular disease or condition. Even if we believe that a clinical trial or trials has demonstrated the safety and efficacy of any of our product candidates, the results may not be satisfactory to the regulator. For example, while we currently plan to first pursue marketing approval in the EU, our current pivotal trial protocol for QLT091001 for IRD is designed with a goal of obtaining sufficient efficacy and safety data to pursue marketing approvals from both the FDA and the EMA. There can be no assurance, however, that study results from one pivotal trial will be sufficient to obtain such approvals, or that, even if marketing approval (or conditional marketing approval, as applicable) is obtained from one regulatory authority, we will likewise obtain marketing approval from the other regulatory authority. Preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted by regulators in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of our product candidates. In addition, the FDA or other regulatory authorities may conduct inspections of manufacturing or clinical sites prior to approval of our drug product. A determination that manufacturing or clinical sites do not satisfy regulatory requirements could delay or preclude approval. Further, after approval of the product, regulators may start review procedures based on pharmacovigilance or other safety data. They have broad discretion in amending, suspending or withdrawing approvals and may also impose obligations to conduct post-approval studies. We may pursue conditional MA in the EU for QLT091001 for the treatment of IRD. There are specific risks associated with conditional approvals in the EU. It is possible that the EMA will refuse to grant the approval because the legal conditions for a conditional approval are not met, for instance because the data are not sufficiently convincing. When a conditional approval is granted, it is valid for renewable periods of one year and typically contains specific conditions, such as conducting one or more new studies, including pivotal studies, or enhanced pharmacovigilance obligations. We will need to comply with these specific conditions to secure renewal and new conditions may also be imposed. If the conditions are not complied with, or when new information results in a different benefit-risk assessment, the renewal may be refused. In addition, the conditional 31 Table of Contents approval may initially only cover a narrow therapeutic indication, which could possibly be broadened when more extensive data become available. The initial approval would, however, already start the regulatory data exclusivity and orphan market exclusivity periods and be taken into account for calculating the patent extension period (supplementary protection certificate or SPC). Even if regulatory authorities approve our product candidates for the treatment of the diseases or conditions we are targeting, our product candidates may not be marketed or commercially successful. If our product candidates are not marketed or commercially successful, it would seriously harm our ability to generate revenue. The successful commercialization of our technology, and in particular our synthetic retinoid, QLT091001, is crucial for our success. Successful product commercialization in the pharmaceutical industry is highly uncertain and very few product commercialization initiatives or research and development projects progress through all phases of development and/or produce a successful commercial product. Even if our products or product candidates are successfully developed, receive all necessary regulatory approvals and are commercially produced, there are number of risks and uncertainties involved in commercializing a product in this industry including the following: • negative safety or efficacy data from post-approval marketing experience or production-quality problems could cause sales of our products to decrease or a product to be recalled; • negative safety or efficacy data from clinical studies conducted by any party could cause sales of our products to decrease or a product to be recalled; • regulatory approvals might limit how or to whom we can sell our products; • we may face significant or unforeseen difficulties or expenses in manufacturing our products, which may only become apparent when scaling-up the manufacturing to commercial scale; • we may need to obtain licenses under third-party patents which can be costly, or may not be available at all; • our intellectual property rights could be challenged by third parties or we could be found to be infringing on intellectual property rights of third parties; • small patient populations may impact distribution and marketing strategy, which may increase our distribution, marketing and per-patient or per-treatment costs; • we may be unable to obtain or maintain sufficient market share at a price high enough to justify commercialization of the product; and • effectiveness of our distribution and marketing strategy, including establishing and maintaining key relationships with distributors and suppliers; • many jurisdictions, including may EU Member States, impose pricing restrictions or restrict reimbursement of products by the social security systems. Numerous other factors may impact market acceptance and demand for our products, including but not limited to: • uncertainty as to size of the addressable target populations for our product due to the very rare nature of IRD and consequently, the limited epidemiological data on which we base our estimates for our product; • ability to identify and reach such small target populations with our product; • our pricing decisions, including a decision to increase or decrease the price of a product, and the pricing decisions of our competitors; • formulation of products in a manner in which they are marketable or subject to appropriate third-party coverage or reimbursement, or the inability to obtain appropriate third-party coverage or reimbursement for any other reason; 32 Table of Contents • availability and rate of market penetration by competing products; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • perceived safety or efficacy relative to other available therapies, including efficacy data from clinical studies conducted by a party showing similar or improved treatment benefit at a lower dose or shorter duration of therapy; and • acceptance in the medical community and target patient populations to new products, treatment paradigms or standards of care. If we are unsuccessful in dealing with any of these risks, or if we are unable to successfully commercialize our product candidates for some other reason, it would seriously harm our ability to generate revenue. If we fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, it will materially harm our business. The regulatory approval process is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. We may not be able to obtain, continue to obtain, or maintain necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, or at all, for our product candidates in development, and delays in receipt or failure to receive such approvals, the loss of previously received approvals, or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business and our financial condition. Our product candidates are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation for safety, efficacy and quality by the U.S. federal government, principally the FDA, and by state and local governments and by foreign regulatory authorities in jurisdictions in which our product candidates may be sold or used in clinical development. Product labeling, manufacturing, adverse event reporting, pricing rules and restrictions, storage, distribution, advertising and promotion, and record keeping are some of the ongoing regulatory requirements to which products are subject. For example, we are subject to U.S. federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback and false claims laws, for any actions taken prior to January 31, 2013 with respect to the marketing, sale and pricing of Visudyne, and will be subject to these laws with respect to the marketing, sale and pricing of any of our product candidates that are approved for commercial sale. Our failure or the failure of any third parties on whom we rely to comply with applicable requirements may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions against the Company and/or our senior officers, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, and could result in, among other things, product recalls or seizures, injunctions, price rebates, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, refusals to permit products to be imported into or exported out of the U.S. or elsewhere, FDA or other regulatory agency refusal to grant approval of drugs or to allow us to enter into governmental supply contracts, and withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications. Regulators can also withdraw a product’s approval under some circumstances, such as the failure to comply with regulatory requirements or unexpected safety issues. The FDA often requires post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the effects of approved products. The FDA, EMA or other regulatory authorities may condition approval of our product candidates on the completion of such post-marketing clinical studies. These post-marketing studies may entail significant additional expense and may suggest that a product causes undesirable side effects or may present a risk to the patient. If data produced from post-marketing studies suggest that one of our approved products may present a risk to safety, the government authorities could withdraw our product approval, suspend production or place other marketing restrictions on our products. If we are unable to sell our products because we have failed to maintain regulatory approval or have to expend significant resources having to address compliance issues, our revenue, financial conditions or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We are also subject to numerous federal, provincial/state and local laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. In addition, advertising and promotional materials relating to drugs are, in certain instances, subject to regulation by the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission and other regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations in the future, and such laws or regulations may materially harm our 33 Table of Contents business. Unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements, our failure to comply with such requirements or the adoption of new requirements could materially harm our business. In addition, there has been an increased focus on privacy issues in countries around the world, including the United States and the European Union. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly our clinical development activities and other areas of our business. In order to comply with the various privacy regimes, including any unanticipated changes in those requirements, in the countries in which we conduct clinical trials may increase the time and cost to perform a clinical trial. Any failure to fully comply with such laws may materially harm our business. Product development is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and we may terminate one or more of our development programs. If we terminate a development program or product candidate, or if we decide to modify or continue a development program that does not succeed, our prospects may suffer and we may incur significant expenses that could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our product candidate, QLT091001, is under evaluation in clinical programs for the treatment of (a) Inherited Retinal Disease caused by RPE65 and LRAT gene mutations, which includes LCA and RP (autosomal recessive) (IRD 02), (b) RP (autosomal dominant) (RP 01), and (c) Impaired Dark Adaptation (IDA 02). We may determine that certain programs do not have sufficient potential to warrant the continued allocation of resources to them. Accordingly, we may elect to suspend, terminate or modify one or more of our programs, which could include changing our clinical or business model for further development, including by attempting to extract or monetize value from the program by either selling, out-licensing or potentially partnering part or all of the program. If we terminate and seek to monetize part or all of a program in which we have invested significant resources, or we continue to expend further resources on a program, and subsequently fail to achieve our intended goals, our prospects may suffer, as we will have expended resources on a program that may not provide a suitable return, if any, on our investment and we may have missed the opportunity to allocate those resources to potentially more productive uses. In addition, in the event of a termination of a product candidate or program, we may incur significant expenses and costs associated with the termination of the program, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We face intense competition, which may limit our commercial opportunities and our ability to generate revenues. The biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology. Competition in our industry occurs on many fronts, including developing and bringing new products to market before others, developing new technologies to improve existing products, developing new products to provide the same benefits as existing products at less cost, developing new products to provide benefits superior to those of existing products, and acquiring or licensing complementary or novel technologies from other pharmaceutical companies or individuals. Our competitors include major pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies, many of which are large, well-established companies with access to financial, technical and marketing resources significantly greater than ours and substantially greater experience in developing and manufacturing products, conducting preclinical and clinical testing and obtaining regulatory approvals. Our competitors may develop or obtain patent protection for products in clinical development earlier than us, design around patented technology developed by us, obtain regulatory approval for such products before us, or develop more effective or less expensive products than us. Our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop or acquire and market products that are more effective, have fewer or less severe adverse side effects, or are less expensive than our future products. Competitors also may develop or acquire products that make our future products obsolete. Any of these competitive products or events could have a significant negative impact on our business and financial results, including reductions in our market share, revenues and gross margins. See Item 1. Business – Competition for more information. 34 Table of Contents Our commercial success depends in part on our ability and the ability of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection on our product candidates and technologies, to preserve trade secrets, and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We have applied for and continue to apply for patents for certain aspects of our product candidates and technology. We may not be able to obtain patent protection on aspects of our product candidates and technology. For example, while U.S. Patent No. 7,951,841 was issued on May 31, 2011 covering various methods of use of QLT091001 in the treatment of diseases associated with an endogenous 11-cis-retinal deficiency until 2027, and four additional key patents were granted in 2015 by the USPTO relating to uses of QLT091001 in the treatment of IRD, all of which are projected to expire between 2025-2032, not including any further potential adjustments due to patent term extensions, patent term adjustments, or terminal disclaimers, the molecule in QLT091001 is not eligible for composition of matter protection in the U.S. or elsewhere because it was previously known in the scientific community. Therefore, we may not be able to prevent competitors from commercializing the molecule in QLT091001 for the treatment of diseases that fall outside of the scope of our patents protecting these methods. Our patent position and proprietary technologies are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Although a patent has a statutory presumption of validity, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or as to enforceability of its claims. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our patents will afford legal protection against competitors, nor can there be any assurance that the patents will not be infringed by others, nor that others will not obtain patents that we would need to license. In the United States, issued patent claims may be broadened, narrowed, otherwise amended, or even cancelled as a result of various post-issuance proceedings instituted by us or third parties at the United States Patent and Trademark Office. These proceedings include post-grant reviews, inter partes reviews, ex parte reexaminations, supplemental examinations, reissue applications, and challenges under the transitional program for covered business method patents. Further, at least some foreign jurisdictions in which we and our licensors have filed patent applications also have procedures that allow for post-issuance challenges at the respective intellectual property or patent office of that jurisdiction. Such challenges may result in the broadening, narrowing, otherwise amending, or even cancellation of issued patent claims in those jurisdictions. Post-issuance challenges at patent offices in the United States or in foreign jurisdictions can be an alternative to, or in addition to, challenges made by third parties using the appropriate jurisdiction’s judicial system. Our issued patents are subject to challenges through the judicial system of the appropriate jurisdiction. With respect to pending patent applications we own or license, we do not know whether or not patent applications will result in issued patents. Securing patent protection for a product is a complex process involving many legal and factual questions. The patent applications that we and our licensors have filed in the United States and elsewhere are at varying stages of examination, the timing of which is outside of our control. Certain of these applications have not yet commenced examination in the United States Patent Office and other international patent offices, and we cannot predict the timing or results of such examinations. Further, because each country has its own requirements for determining patentable subject matter, the patent protection conferred by patent applications owned and licensed by us may result in varying scopes of protection, including but not limited to receiving no patent protection in some jurisdictions. Likewise, to the extent a preferred position is conferred by patents we own or license, upon expiry of such patents, or if such patents are successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented, our preferred position may be lost. Patents issued or licensed to us may be infringed by the products or processes of other parties. The cost of enforcing our patent rights against infringers, if such enforcement is required, could be significant, and the time demands could interfere with our normal operations. It is also possible that a court may find us to be infringing validly issued patents of third parties. In that event, in addition to the cost of defending the underlying suit for infringement, we may have to pay license fees and/or damages and may be enjoined from conducting certain activities. Obtaining licenses under third-party patents can be costly, and such licenses may not be available at all. Under such circumstances, we may need to materially alter our processes, may be unable to launch a product or may lose the right to manufacture and sell a product entirely or for a period of time. 35 Table of Contents Unpatented trade secrets, improvements, confidential know-how and continuing technological innovation are important to our scientific and commercial success. Although we attempt to, and will continue to attempt to, protect our proprietary information through reliance on trade secret laws and the use of confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, contract manufacturers, licensees, clinical investigators, employees and consultants and other appropriate means, these measures may not effectively prevent disclosure of or access to our proprietary information, and, in any event, others may develop independently, or obtain access to, the same or similar information. If we fail to obtain or maintain orphan drug designation or other market exclusivity for QLT091001, our competitive position may be harmed. Since the extent and scope of our patent protection for QLT091001 is limited, orphan drug designation is especially important for this product candidate. QLT091001 has received orphan drug designations for the treatment of LCA (due to inherited mutations in the LRAT or RPE65 genes) and RP (all mutations) by the FDA, and for the treatment of LCA and RP (all mutations) by the EMA. The FDA has also formally acknowledged that the orphan drug designations granted by the FDA on QLT091001 for the treatment of LCA (due to inherited mutations in LRAT or RPE65 genes) and RP (all mutations) also cover QLT091001 for the treatment of Inherited Retinal Disease, including SECORD, which disease/condition we believe subsumes both LCA due to inherited mutations in LRAT or RPE65 genes and RP. On July 30, 2014, the EMA also formally acknowledged that a therapeutic indication of QLT091001 for the treatment of patients with Inherited Retinal Disease, who have been phenotypically diagnosed as LCA or RP caused by mutations in RPE65 or LRAT, would fall under the orphan drug designations of treatment of LCA and treatment of RP. These designations provide market exclusivity in the applicable jurisdiction for seven years and 10 years (which could be reduced), respectively, if a product is approved. This market exclusivity does not, however, pertain to indications other than those for which the drug was specifically designated in the approval, nor does it prevent other types of drugs from receiving orphan designations or approvals in these same indications. It is also possible that we could lose orphan drug status, or that a competing product with an orphan designation and the same indication as our product could reach the market before our product does. Further, even after an orphan drug is approved, the FDA can subsequently approve a drug with the same active moiety for the same condition if the FDA concludes that the new drug is clinically superior to the orphan product or a market shortage occurs. We may seek orphan drug designations for QLT091001 for the treatment of other indications when we believe that such orphan drug designations could provide us with a commercial advantage. There is no assurance that we will receive such orphan drug designations or, even if we do, that such orphan drug designations will provide us with a commercial advantage. If we do not receive these orphan drug designations from one or both of the FDA or EMA in a timely manner or at all, our development plans and timelines to initiate pivotal trials for QLT091001 could be negatively impacted. Additionally, upon FDA approval, we believe that the active pharmaceutical ingredient in QLT091001 may qualify as a new chemical entity, or NCE, which provides for five years of exclusivity following approval. We intend to seek New Chemical Entity exclusivity; however, there is no assurance that QLT091001 will qualify and gain the additional five-year exclusivity period, even if QLT091001 is approved. We also plan to secure regulatory exclusivity for QLT091001 in the EU; however, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in securing approval or regulatory exclusivity in the EU. The commercialization of our product candidates may be dependent on our ability to establish and maintain effective sales and marketing capabilities or to enter into collaborations with partners to perform these services. If we are unable to establish and maintain effective sales and marketing capabilities, or fail to enter into agreements with third parties to sell and market our products, our ability to generate revenues from the sale of future products may be harmed. In order to commercialize any of our product candidates that may be approved for commercial sale, we may need to establish and maintain an effective sales and marketing infrastructure or enter into collaborations with partners able to perform these services for us. We currently do not have an in-house sales and marketing organization. If 36 Table of Contents we are unable to successfully establish capabilities to sell and market our products within or outside the U.S. either through our own capabilities or by entering into collaborations with partners to market and distribute our products, we will have difficulty globally commercializing our products. In any of these events, our ability to generate revenues may be harmed. The future growth of our business may depend in part on our ability to successfully identify, acquire on favorable terms, and assimilate technologies, products or businesses. We actively evaluate various strategic transactions on an ongoing basis and may engage in negotiations to expand our operations and market presence by future product, technology or other acquisitions, in-licensing and business combinations, joint ventures or other strategic alliances with other companies. We may not be successful in identifying, initiating or completing such negotiations. Competition for attractive product acquisition or alliance targets can be intense, and we may not succeed in completing such transactions on terms that are acceptable to us. Even if we are successful in these negotiations, these transactions create risks, including: • difficulties in and costs associated with assimilating the operations, technologies, personnel and products of an acquired business; • assumption of known or unknown liabilities or other unanticipated events or circumstances; • acquired or in-licensed technology may not be successfully developed and commercialized; • the potential disruption to our ongoing business; and • the potential negative impact on our earnings and cash position. Future acquisitions or dispositions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition. Any of these risks could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability for acquired businesses or technology or to realize other anticipated benefits of the transaction. We cannot predict the number, timing or size of future acquisitions or other strategic transactions, or the effect that any such transactions might have on our operating results. We expect to rely on third-party manufacturers, distributors and contract research organizations for the manufacture and distribution of our future commercial products and the management and conduct of our clinical trials. Any difficulties with such third parties could delay clinical trial results and future revenues from sales of our future commercial products. We expect to rely on third parties to manufacture our product candidates for use in later stage clinical trials and, if commercialized, to manufacture and distribute our products in commercial quantities. We also expect to rely on contract research organizations (“CROs”) to manage and conduct our future clinical trials. If we are unable to obtain and maintain agreements on favorable terms with contract manufacturers and distributors, or these parties fail to supply required materials or comply with regulatory requirements, or if we fail to timely locate and obtain regulatory approval for additional or replacement manufacturers or distributors as needed, it could impair or prevent our ability to deliver our future commercial products on a timely basis, or at all, which in turn would materially and adversely harm our business and financial results. Similarly, if we are unable to obtain and maintain agreements on favorable terms with CROs in connection with our future clinical trials, or if any CROs we retain fail to timely provide the required services or comply with regulatory requirements, it could delay the development and approval of our product candidates and impair or prevent our ability to timely conduct successful clinical trials, which would impair our ability to obtain regulatory approval to sell our products, which in turn would materially and adversely harm our business and financial results. 37 Table of Contents For our product candidates and raw materials, we obtain supply from one or a limited number of sources. If we are unable to obtain components or raw materials, or products supplied by third parties, our ability to manufacture our product candidates for our clinical trials or, if approved, for future commercial use would be impeded, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Some components and raw materials used in our product candidates are currently available only from one or a limited number of domestic or foreign suppliers. In the event an existing supplier fails to supply product on a timely basis and/or in the requested amount, supplies product that fails to meet regulatory requirements, becomes unavailable through business interruption or financial insolvency or loses its regulatory status as an approved source or we are unable to obtain or renew supply agreements and we do not have a second supplier, we may be unable to obtain the required components, raw materials or products on a timely basis or at commercially reasonable prices. We attempt to mitigate these risks by maintaining safety stock of these product candidates and raw materials, but such safety stock may not be sufficient. A prolonged interruption in the supply of a single-sourced raw material, including the active pharmaceutical ingredient, would materially and adversely harm our business and financial results. In addition, these third party manufacturers may have the ability to increase the supply price payable by us for the manufacture and supply of our products, in some cases without our consent. Our dependence upon others to manufacture our products may adversely affect our profit margins and our ability to obtain approval for and produce our products on a timely and competitive basis, which would materially and adversely harm our business and financial results. Healthcare reform and restrictions on reimbursements may limit our financial returns. Our ability to commercialize our product candidates successfully will depend, in part, on the timeliness of, and the extent to which, adequate coverage and reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments is obtained from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations in the U.S. and foreign markets. These third parties are increasingly challenging both the need for and the price of new drug products. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved therapeutics. Applications or re-applications for coverage and reimbursement for any of our products may not result in approvals. Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available for our product candidates to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investments in research and product development. Furthermore, the exceptional circumstances or the conditional nature of the MA can result in a lower reimbursement price. We may become involved in legal proceedings from time to time and if there is an adverse outcome in our litigation or other legal actions, our business may be harmed. We may become involved in legal actions in the ordinary course of our business. Litigation may result in verdicts against us, including excessive verdicts, which may include a judgment with a significant monetary award, as occurred in 2008 in the litigation with Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, including the possibility of punitive damages, a judgment that certain of our patent or other intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable and, as occurred in 2006 in the litigation with TAP Pharmaceuticals in the U.S., the risk that an injunction could be issued preventing the manufacture, marketing and sale of our products that are the subject of the litigation. In addition, we may become involved in disputes or legal actions as a result of our past strategic corporate restructurings and divestitures, including the sale of, our assets related to Visudyne and our Qcellus laser under development to Valeant pursuant to the terms of the Valeant Agreement in 2012, or the sale of our PPDS Technology to Mati in 2013. Transactions such as these may result in disputes regarding representations and warranties, indemnities, future payments or other matters, and we may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of these transactions. For example, we recently filed a breach of contract lawsuit against Valeant in the Supreme Court of British Columbia, alleging that Valeant has failed to pay the $5 Million Laser Earn-Out Payment required under the terms of the Valeant Agreement. We seek to recover damages of $5.0 million from 38 Table of Contents Valeant and also claim failure of Valeant to use commercially reasonable efforts to promptly obtain laser registrations for the Qcellus laser in the United States. If we cannot favorably resolve this dispute, we may not receive any or all of the contingent consideration pertaining to regulatory approval of the Qcellus laser. If disputes are resolved unfavorably, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Additionally, any litigation, whether or not successful, may damage our reputation. Furthermore, we will have to incur substantial expense in defending these lawsuits and the time demands of such lawsuits could divert management’s attention from ongoing business concerns and interfere with our normal operations. In addition, the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of human pharmaceutical products entail significant inherent risks of allegations of product liability. Our use of such products and medical devices in clinical trials exposes us to liability claims allegedly resulting from the use of these products or devices. These risks exist even with respect to those products or devices that are approved for commercial sale by the FDA or applicable foreign regulatory authorities and manufactured in facilities licensed and regulated by those regulatory authorities. Our current insurance may not provide coverage or adequate coverage against potential claims, losses or damages resulting from such litigation. We also cannot be certain that our current coverage will continue to be available in the future on reasonable terms, if at all. If we were found liable for any claims in excess of our coverage or outside of our coverage, the cost and expense of such liability could materially harm our business and financial condition. A portion of the consideration related to the sale of our Visudyne business and PPDS Technology in 2012 and 2013 in connection with our strategic restructuring is contingent upon the occurrence of certain milestones and other events. If we do not receive all or a material portion of these funds it may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Under the Valeant Agreement, pursuant to which we sold our Visudyne business to Valeant, we are entitled to receive up to $5.0 million in each calendar year commencing January 1, 2013 (up to a maximum of $15.0 million in the aggregate) for annual net royalties exceeding $8.5 million for sales of Visudyne outside of the United States by Novartis and a royalty on net sales attributable to new indications for Visudyne, if any should be approved by the FDA. Additionally, on September 26, 2013, the FDA approved the PMA supplement for the Qcellus laser and we invoiced Valeant for a $5.0 million Laser Earn-Out Payment under the terms of the Valeant Agreement. Valeant has disputed payment and on September 22, 2015, we filed a breach of contract lawsuit against Valeant in the Supreme Court of British Columbia seeking to recover damages of $5.0 million for failure to pay and also claim failure of Valeant to use commercially reasonable efforts to promptly obtain laser registrations for the Qcellus laser in the United States. While we believe that the Laser Earn-Out Payment is currently due and payable by Valeant, the outcome of litigation is uncertain and we may have difficulty collecting the Laser Earn-Out Payment in full. Under our asset purchase agreement with Mati, we are eligible to receive potential payments upon the satisfaction of certain product development and commercialization milestones that could reach $19.5 million (or exceed that amount if more than two products are commercialized), a low single digit royalty on world-wide net sales of all products using or developed from the PPDS Technology and a fee on payments received by Mati in respect of the PPDS Technology other than net sales. With respect to Visudyne, as well as any future products resulting from the PPDS Technology, our receipt of contingent consideration depends on the success of third parties to market these products. For example, under the Visudyne asset purchase agreement, the contingent consideration depends on the sales of Visudyne outside of the United States, which is the responsibility of Novartis. Consequently, a portion of our income depends on the efforts of Novartis to market and sell Visudyne outside the U.S. and on the efforts of Valeant to collect royalties due to it from Novartis. To the extent such third parties do not perform adequately, or do not comply with applicable laws or regulations in performing their obligations, our income may be adversely affected. 39 Table of Contents Our receipt of contingent consideration may also be adversely affected by, among other things: • lower than expected Visudyne sales, including due to competition, product manufacturing, supply interruptions or recalls; • marketing or pricing actions by competitors or regulatory authorities; • changes in the reimbursement or substitution policies of third-party payors; • disputes relating to patents or other intellectual property rights; • failure to develop and commercialize any new indications for Visudyne; and • failure or delay by Mati in its development efforts, obtaining regulatory approval and commercializing the products related to the PPDS Technology. If we do not ultimately receive all or a material portion of the consideration provided for under the asset purchase agreements due to the risks noted above or for any other reason, our cash position will suffer. Our provision for income taxes and effective income tax rate may vary significantly and may adversely affect our results of operations and cash resources. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and uncertain tax positions. Various internal and external factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our future provision for income taxes, uncertain tax positions, income taxes receivable, and our effective income tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in tax laws, regulations and/or rates, results of audits by tax authorities, changing interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations, changes in estimates of prior years’ items, the impact of transactions we complete, future levels of research and development spending, changes in the overall mix of income among the different jurisdictions in which we operate, and changes in overall levels of income before taxes. Furthermore, new accounting pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements (such as those described in Note 3 – Significant Accounting Policies in Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements) can have a material impact on our effective income tax rate. We file income tax returns and pay income taxes in jurisdictions where we believe we are subject to tax. In jurisdictions in which we do not believe we are subject to tax and therefore do not file income tax returns, we can provide no certainty that tax authorities in those jurisdictions will not subject one or more tax years (since our inception) to examination. Tax examinations are often complex as tax authorities may disagree with the treatment of items reported by us, the result of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred losses from continuing operations for several years and expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We have generated significant operating losses in prior years. During the year ended December 31, 2015 we incurred a net loss of $23.0 million and as at December 31, 2015 our accumulated deficit was approximately $534.3 million. Even though our research and development expenses are lower due to the sale of our former Visudyne business and PPDS Technology, we expect to continue to incur significant net losses from continuing operations for the foreseeable future due to clinical development costs related to our synthetic retinoid product and the absence of any revenue generating activities. We are uncertain when or if we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability. If we are unable to achieve or sustain profitability in the future, this may adversely affect our stock price. 40 Table of Contents Our operating expenses may fluctuate, which may cause our financial results to be below expectations and the market price of our securities to decline. Our operating expenses may fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons, some of which are beyond our control. An increase in operating expenses could arise from any number of factors, such as: • increased costs associated with the research and development of our product candidates; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and • product, technology or other acquisitions or business combinations. The market price of our common shares is volatile and the value of an investment in our common shares could decline. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies, including us, have been and are likely to continue to be volatile. As a result, investors in companies such as ours may buy at high prices only to see the price drop substantially a short time later, resulting in an extreme drop in value in the holdings of these investors. Trading prices of the securities of many biotechnology companies, including us, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations which have, at times, been unrelated to the operating performance of the companies whose securities were affected. Some of the factors that may cause volatility in the price of our securities include: • announcements related to our strategic alternatives process; • results of our research and development programs; • issues with the safety or effectiveness of our product candidates; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • litigation commenced by or against us; • regulatory developments or delays concerning our products; • quarterly variations in our financial results; and • the timing and amounts of contingent consideration paid to us by third parties. The price of our common shares may also be adversely affected by the estimates and projections of the investment community, general economic and market conditions, and the cost of operations in our product markets. Due to general economic conditions, extreme price and volume fluctuations occur in the stock market from time to time that can particularly affect the prices of biotechnology companies. These extreme fluctuations are sometimes unrelated or disproportionate to the actual performance of the affected companies. Our information technology systems may be vulnerable to cybersecurity attacks which may adversely affect our business and operations. We leverage advancements in technology to support our business model, including electronic data capture technologies for the efficient collection of clinical trial data. As a result, we are exposed to risks and may be subject to cyber-attacks and unauthorized access to our data. Cyber-attacks are often focused on compromising sensitive data for inappropriate use or disrupting business operations. Such an attack could compromise our confidential information as well as that of our clinical trial subjects and third parties with whom we interact and may result in negative consequences, including remediation costs, financial penalties, additional regulatory scrutiny, litigation and reputational damage that may materially and adversely harm our business and financial results and for which we may not have adequate, or any, insurance. We are actively working to take the necessary steps to reduce these risks through the use of processes, controls and by working with third party technology providers who have experience in addressing those risks, however, there can be no assurance that the measures we take will eliminate or reduce the incidence of a cybersecurity attack on our business. 41 Table of Contents If we fail to manage our exposure to global financial, securities market and foreign exchange risk successfully, our operating results and financial statements could be materially impacted. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maintaining liquidity and maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. To achieve this objective, our cash equivalents are high credit quality, liquid, money market instruments. If the carrying value of our investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we will be required to write down the value of our investments, which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, the performance of certain securities in our investment portfolio may correlate with the credit condition of governments, government agencies, financial institutions and corporate issuers. If the credit environment were to become unstable, as it did in the second half of 2008 and throughout much of 2009, we might incur significant realized, unrealized or impairment losses associated with these investments. The functional currency of the Company is the U.S. dollar. As a result, to the extent that foreign currency-denominated (i.e., non-USD) monetary assets do not equal the amount of our foreign currency-denominated monetary liabilities, foreign currency gains or losses could arise and materially impact our financial statements. Any of these events could have a significant negative impact on our business and financial results. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 