Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this Report, you should consider carefully the following factors, which describe the risks, uncertainties and other factors that may materially and adversely affect our business, products, financial condition and operating results. There are many factors that affect our business and our results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of important factors that may cause our actual results of operations in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or discussed in forward-looking statements set forth in this Report relating to our financial results, operations and business prospects. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which it is made. We may be unable to realize all of the potential benefits, and may be subject to potential liabilities, in connection with our recent strategic restructuring. In September 2012, we sold all of our assets related to Visudyne to Valeant. In connection with the sale of Visudyne to Valeant, we entered into a transition services agreement under which we agreed to provide certain services to Valeant related to the divested business in exchange for payment for the services and reimbursement for out of pocket expenses at cost. If we are unable to successfully manage our relationship with Valeant and other third-party vendors, consultants and contractors involved with Visudyne, or if we fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements or contractual obligations in connection with providing services under the transition services agreement, it could increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, we may not receive all or any of the contingent consideration under the asset purchase agreement if we fail to achieve milestones with respect to the Qcellus laser or if net royalties on sales of Visudyne outside of the U.S. are lower than expected. In December, 2012, we entered into an exclusive option agreement with Mati pursuant to which the Company granted Mati a 90-day option to acquire assets related to the Company’s punctal plug delivery system. However, Mati may never exercise its option with respect to our punctal plug delivery system assets. If Mati does not 20 exercise its option, we may not realize any financial benefits from these assets, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations or could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business. Our strategic restructuring may not result in anticipated savings, could result in total costs and expenses that are greater than expected, could make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and may disrupt our operations, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In connection with the Company’s strategic restructuring, in July 2012 we implemented a significant reduction in our work force, followed by an additional reduction in force in December 2012. Through December 31, 2012, we recorded restructuring charges of $16.9 million (of which $3.1 million is included in discontinued operations) and we expect to record an additional restructuring charge of approximately $1.6 million. We may not realize in full the anticipated benefits, savings and improvements in our cost structure from our restructuring efforts due to unforeseen difficulties, delays or unexpected costs. If we are unable to achieve the anticipated benefits, savings or improvements in our cost structure in the expected time frame or other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. The Company’s restructuring, including product divestitures, also may be disruptive to our operations, in particular due to the departure of several members of senior management. For example, cost saving measures may distract remaining and new management from our remaining businesses, harm our reputation, or yield unanticipated consequences, such as attrition beyond planned reductions in workforce, increased difficulties in our day-to-day operations, deficiencies in our internal controls, reduced employee productivity and a deterioration of employee morale. Our workforce reductions could also harm our ability to attract and retain qualified management, and scientific and other personnel who are critical to our business. Any failure to attract or retain key personnel, including a permanent CEO and CFO, could result in unexpected delays in the development of the Company’s synthetic oral retinoid program, QLT091001, or could otherwise negatively impact our business. Moreover, although we believe it is necessary to reduce the cost of our operations to improve our performance, these initiatives may preclude us from taking actions or making investments that could improve our competitiveness over the longer term. We cannot guarantee that the cost reduction measures, or other measures we may take in the future, will result in the expected cost savings, or that any cost savings will be unaccompanied by these or other unintended consequences. We no longer generate revenues from continuing operations and continue to incur operating expenses. In order to fund our operations, we may need additional capital in the future, and our prospects for obtaining it are uncertain. Although our divestment of non-core assets in 2008 and 2009 and our sale of the assets related to Visudyne in September 2012 generated significant cash, we no longer generate revenues from the sale of products and we will not generate any revenues from our products in development until such time, if ever, that they are approved for sale. In addition, we have authorized the return of at least $100.0 million of our cash to shareholders. Going forward we will continue to incur operating expenses and, as a result, may not be able fund our operations or any anticipated growth beyond the near term. The amount required to fund our operating expenses will depend on many factors, including the success of our research and development programs, the extent and success of any collaborative research arrangements, and the results of product, technology or other acquisitions or business combinations. We could seek additional funds in the future from a combination of sources, including out-licensing, joint development, sale of assets and other financing arrangements. In addition, we may issue debt or equity securities if we determine that additional cash resources could be obtained under favorable conditions or if future development funding requirements cannot be satisfied with available cash resources. The availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit and the availability of credit to our industry, the volume of trading activities, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term 21 financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. As a result of any or all of these factors, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favourable terms, or at all. Our primary source of cash inflows is contingent consideration related to the sale of our Visudyne business and the sale of QLT USA, including the Eligard® product line, and we may not receive all or a material portion of these funds. Furthermore, an unfavorable change in the fair value of our contingent consideration as a result of changes in estimates related to amount and timing of future cash flows, and the applicable discount rate may adversely impact our financial results. For the foreseeable future, our only material source of cash inflows is contingent consideration from the strategic transactions we have completed or may complete. Under our asset purchase agreement with Valeant pursuant to which we sold our Visudyne business to Valeant, we are entitled to receive up to $5.0 million in each calendar year commencing January 1, 2013 (up to a maximum of $15.0 million in the aggregate) for annual net royalties exceeding $8.5 million for sales of Visudyne outside of the United States by Novartis and a royalty on net sales attributable to new indications for Visudyne, if any should be approved by the FDA. Additionally, we are entitled to receive up to $5.0 million upon receipt of all registrations required for the commercial sale in the U.S. of the Qcellus laser, which is currently under development. We may not receive all or any of this contingent consideration. Under the stock purchase agreement with Tolmar for the sale of QLT USA, including its Eligard product line, we are entitled to receive future consideration payable on a quarterly basis in amounts equal to 80% of the royalties paid under the license agreement with Sanofi for the commercial marketing of Eligard in the U.S. and Canada, and the license agreement with Astellas (formerly with MediGene) for the commercial marketing of Eligard in Europe until the earlier of receiving the full $200.0 million or October 1, 2024. Additionally, if Mati chooses to exercise its option with respect to the punctal plug delivery program, we will be entitled to certain contingent consideration upon the satisfaction of certain product development and commercialization milestones. With respect to both Visudyne and Eligard, as well as any future products resulting from the punctal plug delivery program in the event that Mati exercises its option, our success depends on the success of third parties to market these products. For example, under the Visudyne asset purchase agreement, the contingent consideration depends on the sales of Visudyne outside of the United States, which is the responsibility of Novartis. Consequently, a portion of our income depends on the efforts of Novartis to market and sell Visudyne outside the U.S. and on the efforts of Valeant to collect royalties due to it from Novartis. To the extent such third parties do not perform adequately, or do not comply with applicable laws or regulations in performing their obligations, our income may be adversely affected. Our receipt of contingent consideration may also be adversely affected by, among other things: • lower than expected Visudyne or Eligard sales; • product manufacturing or supply interruptions or recalls; • the development of competitive products, including generics, by other companies that compete with Visudyne or Eligard; • marketing or pricing actions by competitors or regulatory authorities; • changes in foreign exchange rates; • changes in the reimbursement or substitution policies of third-party payors; 22 • changes in or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; • disputes relating to patents or other intellectual property rights; • the commercial efforts of Visudyne or Eligard marketing licensees; • changes in laws or regulations that adversely affect the ability to market Visudyne or Eligard; • decline in the commercial supply and technical support for laser light devices necessary to administer Visudyne therapy; • failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of the Qcellus laser; • failure to develop and commercialize any new indications for Visudyne; • failure of Mati to exercise its option with respect to the punctal plug delivery system; and • failure or delay by Mati in obtaining regulatory approval and commercializing the products related to the punctal plug delivery system. Furthermore, the fair value of our contingent consideration reflected on our consolidated balance sheet is based on future Visudyne and Eligard sales estimated by us utilizing external market research to estimate market size, to which we apply market share and pricing assumptions based on historical sales data and expected future competition. If we do not ultimately receive all or a material portion of the consideration provided for under the stock purchase agreement or asset purchase agreement due to the risks noted above or for any other reason, our cash position will suffer. We believe that we may be deemed a passive foreign investment company for the taxable year ended December 31, 2012, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders and may deter certain U.S. investors from purchasing our stock, which could have an adverse impact on our stock price. Based on the price of our common shares and the composition of our assets, we believe that we may be deemed a “passive foreign investment company” (“PFIC”) for United States federal income tax purposes for the taxable year ended December 31, 2012. We believe that we may be deemed a PFIC for the taxable years ended December 31, 2008 through 2011, and we may be a PFIC in future years. A non-U.S. corporation generally will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes in any taxable year in which, after applying relevant look-through rules with respect to the income and assets of subsidiaries, either 75% or more of its gross income is “passive income” or 50% or more of the average value of its assets consists of assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. If we were a PFIC for any taxable year during a U.S. Holder’s holding period for our common shares, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. Holder, as that term is defined in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Certain Canadian and U.S. Federal Income Tax Information for U.S. Residents—U.S. Federal Income Tax Information—U.S. Holders in this Report, including on a return of capital to such U.S. Holders. In addition, our PFIC status may deter certain U.S. investors from purchasing our stock, which could have an adverse impact on our stock price. Our success is dependent upon obtaining regulatory approval for our product candidates, and in particular product candidates for QLT091001. The regulatory approval process is costly and lengthy and we may not be able to successfully obtain all required regulatory approvals. If we fail to obtain all required regulatory approvals, our business may suffer. As part of the regulatory approval process, we must conduct, at our own expense, preclinical studies and clinical trials on humans for each product candidate. Generally, in order to gain approval for a product, we must provide the FDA and other applicable regulatory authorities with clinical data that adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of that product for the intended disease or condition applied for in the NDA or respective regulatory file. We expect the number and size of clinical trials that the regulatory authorities will require will vary depending on 23 the product candidate, the disease or condition the product is being developed to address, the expected size of the patient population and regulations applicable to the particular product. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. Further, the approval procedure varies among countries and can involve different testing or data review. Drug development is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and delay or failure can occur at any stage in our clinical trials. Product candidates that appear promising in research or development may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development or the market for several reasons, including: • preclinical studies may show the product to be toxic or lack efficacy in animal models; • the interim or final results of clinical trials are inconclusive, negative, or not as favorable as results of previous trials, or show the product candidate to be less safe or effective than desired; • patients die or experience adverse side effects or events for a variety of reasons, including those related to our product candidates or due to the patient’s advanced stage of disease or medical problems, which may or may not be related to our product candidates; • the FDA, EMA or other regulatory authorities do not permit us to proceed with a clinical trial protocol or a clinical trial, or place a clinical trial on hold; • the data and safety monitoring committee of a clinical trial recommends that a trial be placed on hold or suspended; • our trial design, although approved, is inadequate for demonstration of safety and/or efficacy; • the FDA, EMA or other regulatory authorities determine that any study endpoints used in clinical trials are not sufficient for movement into a next stage clinical trial or for product approval; • delay in or failure to enroll or retain a sufficient number of patients, or difficulty diagnosing, identifying and recruiting suitable patients, including, for example, due to the rarity of the disease being studied; • inability to attract or retain personnel with appropriate expertise; • third party clinical investigators do not perform our clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol or other third-party organizations do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; • difficulties formulating the product; • inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of the product candidate which conform to design and performance specifications; • our clinical trial expenditures are constrained by our budgetary considerations; • changes in governmental regulations, policies or administrative actions; or • regulatory inspections of our clinical trials or manufacturing facilities, which may, among other things, require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our clinical trials if investigators find us not to be in compliance with regulatory requirements. For example, a significant challenge for our clinical trials of QLT091001 for the treatment of LCA and RP has been and will likely continue to be patient recruitment due to the small population of patients with these conditions, and in particular with the specific genetic mutations causing LCA and RP we are currently investigating. The challenge in recruiting subjects from this small population is further exacerbated by the lack of public awareness of such conditions and resulting delay in (or lack of) available genetic testing and diagnosis. Further, patients may be discouraged from enrolling in our clinical trials if the trial protocol requires them to undergo extensive procedures to assess the safety and effectiveness of our products, or they may be persuaded to participate in contemporaneous trials of competitive products. Delay in, or failure of, enrolment of sufficient patients or failure of patients to continue to participate in a study may cause an increase in costs and delays or 24 result in the failure of the trial. Our clinical trial costs will also increase if we have material delays in our clinical trials for other reasons or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than anticipated. From time to time, we engage in discussions with the FDA, EMA and other regulatory authorities to determine the regulatory requirements for our development programs. These discussions may include deliberations on number and size of clinical trials, definition of patient population, study end points and safety. The final determination on these matters by the applicable regulatory authority may be difficult to predict, in particular where there are no approved precedents to establish drug development norms in a particular class of drug disease area, such as orphan drug development, and may be different, including more onerous, than we anticipated, which may delay, limit or prevent approval of our product candidates. In addition, the FDA, EMA and other regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in deciding whether any of our product candidates should be granted approval for the treatment of the particular disease or condition. Even if we believe that a clinical trial or trials has demonstrated the safety and efficacy of any of our product candidates, the results may not be satisfactory to the regulator. Preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted by regulators in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of our product candidates. Even if regulatory authorities approve our product candidates for the treatment of the diseases or conditions we are targeting, our product candidates may not be marketed or commercially successful. If our product candidates are not marketed or commercially successful, it would seriously harm our ability to generate revenue. The successful commercialization of our technology, and in particular our synthetic retinoid, QLT091001, is crucial for our success. Successful product commercialization in the pharmaceutical industry is highly uncertain and very few product commercialization initiatives or research and development projects progress through all phases of development and/or produce a successful commercial product. Even if our products or product candidates are successfully developed, receive all necessary regulatory approvals and are commercially produced, there are number of risks and uncertainties involved in commercializing a product in this industry including the following: • negative safety or efficacy data from post-approval marketing experience or production-quality problems could cause sales of our products to decrease or a product to be recalled; • negative safety or efficacy data from clinical studies conducted by any party could cause sales of our products to decrease or a product to be recalled; • we may face significant or unforeseen difficulties or expenses in manufacturing our products, which may only become apparent when scaling-up the manufacturing to commercial scale; • we may need to obtain licenses under third-party patents which can be costly, or may not be available at all; • our intellectual property rights could be challenged by third parties or we could be found to be infringing on intellectual property rights of third parties; • small patient populations may impact distribution and marketing strategy, which may increase our distribution, marketing and per-patient or per-treatment costs; • we may be unable to obtain or maintain sufficient market share at a price high enough to justify commercialization of the product; and • effectiveness of our distribution and marketing strategy, including establishing and maintaining key relationships with distributors and suppliers. 25 Numerous other factors may impact market acceptance and demand for our products, including but not limited to: • size of the target populations for a product and ability to identify and reach such target populations with the product; • our pricing decisions, including a decision to increase or decrease the price of a product, and the pricing decisions of our competitors; • formulation of products in a manner in which they are marketable or subject to appropriate third-party coverage or reimbursement, or the inability to obtain appropriate third-party coverage or reimbursement for any other reason; • availability and rate of market penetration by competing products; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • perceived safety or efficacy relative to other available therapies, including efficacy data from clinical studies conducted by a party showing similar or improved treatment benefit at a lower dose or shorter duration of therapy; and • acceptance in the medical community and target patient populations to new products, treatment paradigms or standards of care. If we are unsuccessful in dealing with any of these risks, or if we are unable to successfully commercialize our product candidates for some other reason, it would seriously harm our ability to generate revenue. If we fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, it will materially harm our business. The regulatory clearance process is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. We may not be able to obtain, continue to obtain, or maintain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals on a timely basis, or at all, for our product candidates in development, and delays in receipt or failure to receive such clearances or approvals, the loss of previously received clearances or approvals, or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business and our financial condition. Our product candidates are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation for safety, efficacy and quality by the U.S. federal government, principally the FDA, and by state and local governments and by foreign regulatory authorities in jurisdictions in which our product candidates may be sold or used in clinical development. Product labeling, manufacturing, adverse event reporting, pricing rules and restrictions, storage, distribution, advertising and promotion, and record keeping are some of the ongoing regulatory requirements to which products are subject. For example, we are subject to U.S. federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback and false claims laws, for any actions taken prior to January 31, 2013 with respect to the marketing, sale and pricing of Visudyne, and will be subject to these laws with respect to the marketing, sale and pricing of any of our product candidates that are approved for commercial sale. Our failure or the failure of any third parties on whom we rely to comply with applicable requirements may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions against the Company and/or our senior officers, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, and could result in among other things, product recalls or seizures, injunctions, price rebates, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, refusals to permit products to be imported into or exported out of the U.S. or elsewhere, FDA or other regulatory agency refusal to grant approval of drugs or to allow us to enter into governmental supply contracts, and withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications. Regulators can also withdraw a product’s approval under some circumstances, such as the failure to comply with regulatory requirements or unexpected safety issues. 26 The FDA often requires post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the effects of approved products. The FDA, EMA or other regulatory authorities may condition approval of our product candidates on the completion of such post-marketing clinical studies. These post-marketing studies may suggest that a product causes undesirable side effects or may present a risk to the patient. If data produced from post-marketing studies suggest that one of our approved products may present a risk to safety, the government authorities could withdraw our product approval, suspend production or place other marketing restrictions on our products. If we are unable to sell our products because we have failed to maintain regulatory approval or have to expend significant resources having to address compliance issues, our revenue, financial conditions or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We are also subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. In addition, advertising and promotional materials relating to medical devices and drugs are, in certain instances, subject to regulation by the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission and other regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations in the future, and such laws or regulations may materially harm our business. Unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements, our failure to comply with such requirements or the adoption of new requirements could materially harm our business. Product development is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and we may terminate one or more of our development programs. If we terminate a development program or product candidate, or if we decide to modify or continue a development program that does not succeed, our prospects may suffer and we may incur significant expenses that could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We may determine that certain programs or product candidates do not have sufficient potential to warrant the continued allocation of resources to them. Accordingly, we may elect to terminate or modify one or more of our programs, which could include changing our clinical or business model for further development, including by attempting to extract or monetize value from the program by either selling, out-licensing or potentially partnering part or all of the program. If we terminate and seek to monetize part or all of a program in which we have invested significant resources, or we modify a program and expend further resources on it, and subsequently fail to achieve our intended goals, our prospects may suffer, as we will have expended resources on a program that may not provide a suitable return, if any, on our investment and we may have missed the opportunity to allocate those resources to potentially more productive uses. In addition, in the event of a termination of a product candidate or program, we may incur significant expenses and costs associated with the termination of the program, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. If we do not achieve our projected development goals in the timeframes we expect and announce, marketing approval and commercialization of our product candidates may be delayed and our credibility may be adversely affected and, as a result, our stock price may decline. For strategic and operational planning purposes, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development goals. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission of regulatory filings. From time to time, we publicly announce the expected timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in many cases for reasons beyond our control. If we do not meet these milestones as publicly announced, the market approval and commercialization of our product candidates may be delayed and our credibility may be adversely affected and, as a result, our stock price may decline. We face intense competition, which may limit our commercial opportunities and our ability to generate revenues. The biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology. Competition in our industry occurs on many fronts, including developing and bringing new products to market 27 before others, developing new technologies to improve existing products, developing new products to provide the same benefits as existing products at less cost, developing new products to provide benefits superior to those of existing products, and acquiring or licensing complementary or novel technologies from other pharmaceutical companies or individuals. Our competitors include major pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies, many of which are large, well-established companies with access to financial, technical and marketing resources significantly greater than ours and substantially greater experience in developing and manufacturing products, conducting preclinical and clinical testing and obtaining regulatory approvals. Our competitors may develop or obtain patent protection for products in clinical development earlier than us, design around patented technology developed by us, obtain regulatory approval for such products before us, or develop more effective or less expensive products than us. Our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop or acquire and market products that are more effective, have fewer or less severe adverse side effects, or are less expensive than our future products. Competitors also may develop or acquire products that make our future products obsolete. Any of these competitive products or events could have a significant negative impact on our business and financial results, including reductions in our market share, revenues and gross margins. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability and the ability of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection on our product candidates and technologies, to preserve trade secrets, and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We have applied for and will continue to apply for patents for certain aspects of our product candidates and technology. We may not be able to obtain patent protection on aspects of our product candidates and technology. For example, while U.S. Patent No. 7,951,841 was issued on May 31, 2011 covering various methods of use of QLT091001 in the treatment of diseases associated with an endogenous 11-cis-retinal deficiency until 2027, the molecule in QLT091001 is not eligible for composition of matter protection in the U.S. or elsewhere because it was previously known in the scientific community. Therefore, we may not be able to prevent competitors from commercializing the molecule in QLT091001 for the treatment of diseases that fall outside of the scope of our patents protecting this program. Our patent position and proprietary technologies are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Although a patent has a statutory presumption of validity, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or as to enforceability of its claims. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our patents will afford legal protection against competitors, nor can there be any assurance that the patents will not be infringed by others, nor that others will not obtain patents that we would need to license. With respect to pending patent applications we own or license, we do not know whether or not patent applications will result in issued patents. Securing patent protection for a product is a complex process involving many legal and factual questions. The patent applications that we and our licensors have filed in the United States and elsewhere are at varying stages of examination, the timing of which is outside of our control. Certain of these applications have not yet commenced examination in the United States Patent Office and other international patent offices, and we cannot predict the timing or results of such examinations. Likewise, to the extent a preferred position is conferred by patents we own or license, upon expiry of such patents, or if such patents are successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented, our preferred position may be lost. Patents issued or licensed to us may be infringed by the products or processes of other parties. The cost of enforcing our patent rights against infringers, if such enforcement is required, could be significant, and the time demands could interfere with our normal operations. It is also possible that a court may find us to be infringing validly issued patents of third parties. In that event, in addition to the cost of defending the underlying suit for infringement, we may have to pay license fees and/or 28 damages and may be enjoined from conducting certain activities. Obtaining licenses under third-party patents can be costly, and such licenses may not be available at all. Under such circumstances, we may need to materially alter our products or processes, may be unable to launch a product or may lose the right to continue to manufacture and sell a product entirely or for a period of time. Unpatented trade secrets, improvements, confidential know-how and continuing technological innovation are important to our scientific and commercial success. Although we attempt to, and will continue to attempt to, protect our proprietary information through reliance on trade secret laws and the use of confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, contract manufacturers, licensees, clinical investigators, employees and consultants and other appropriate means, these measures may not effectively prevent disclosure of or access to our proprietary information, and, in any event, others may develop independently, or obtain access to, the same or similar information. If we fail to obtain or maintain orphan drug designation or other market exclusivity for some of our product candidates, our competitive position may be harmed. Since the extent and scope of our patent protection for QLT091001 is limited, orphan drug designation is especially important for this product candidate. QLT091001 has received orphan drug designations for the treatment of LCA (due to inherited mutations in the LRAT and RPE65 genes) and RP (all mutations) by the FDA, and for the treatment of LCA and RP (all mutations) by the EMA. These designations provide market exclusivity in the applicable jurisdiction for seven years and 10 years, respectively, if a product is approved. This market exclusivity does not, however, pertain to indications other than those for which the drug was specifically designated in the approval, nor does it prevent other types of drugs from receiving orphan designations or approvals in these same indications. Further, even after an orphan drug is approved, the FDA can subsequently approve a drug with the same active moiety for the same condition if the FDA concludes that the new drug is clinically superior to the orphan product or a market shortage occurs. While we may seek orphan drug designations for other indications (including for the treatment of an indication due to a specific inherited genetic mutation), there is no assurance we will receive such orphan drug designations or, even if we do, that such orphan drug designations will provide us with a commercial advantage. Additionally, upon FDA approval, we believe that the active pharmaceutical ingredient in QLT091001 may qualify as a new chemical entity, or NCE, which provides for five years of exclusivity following approval. We intend to seek New Chemical Entity exclusivity; however, there is no assurance that QLT091001 will qualify and gain the additional five-year exclusivity period, even if QLT091001 is approved. We also plan to seek regulatory exclusivity for QLT091001 in the EU; however, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in securing approval or regulatory exclusivity in the EU. The commercialization of our product candidates may be dependent on our ability to establish and maintain effective sales and marketing capabilities or to enter into collaborations with partners to perform these services. If we are unable to establish and maintain effective sales and marketing capabilities, or fail to enter into agreements with third parties to sell and market our products, our ability to generate revenues from the sale of future products may be harmed. In order to commercialize any of our product candidates that may be approved for commercial sale, we may need to establish and maintain an effective sales and marketing infrastructure or enter into collaborations with partners able to perform these services for us. Following completion of our work under the Visudyne transition services agreement with Valeant, we do not maintain an in-house sales and marketing organization. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to enter into and maintain marketing or distribution agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, we currently have no sales and marketing capabilities in territories outside the U.S. If we are unable to successfully establish capabilities to sell and market our products outside the U.S. either through our own capabilities or by entering into collaborations with partners, we will have difficulty globally commercializing our products. In any of these events, our ability to generate revenues may be harmed. 29 The future growth of our business may depend in part on our ability to successfully identify, acquire on favorable terms, and assimilate technologies, products or businesses. From time to time, we may engage in negotiations to expand our operations and market presence by future product, technology or other acquisitions, in-licensing and business combinations, joint ventures or other strategic alliances with other companies. We may not be successful in identifying, initiating or completing such negotiations. Competition for attractive product acquisition or alliance targets can be intense, and we may not succeed in completing such transactions on terms that are acceptable to us. Even if we are successful in these negotiations, these transactions create risks, including: • difficulties in and costs associated with assimilating the operations, technologies, personnel and products of an acquired business; • assumption of known or unknown liabilities or other unanticipated events or circumstances; • acquired / in-licensed technology may not be successfully developed and commercialized; • the potential disruption to our ongoing business; and • the potential negative impact on our earnings and cash position. Any of these risks could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability for acquired businesses or technology or to realize other anticipated benefits of the transaction. We expect to rely on third-party manufacturers and distributors for the manufacture and distribution of our future commercial products. Any difficulties with such third parties could delay future revenues from sales of our future commercial products. We expect to rely on third parties to manufacture our product candidates for use in later stage clinical trials and, if commercialized, to manufacture and distribute our products in commercial quantities. If we are unable to obtain and maintain agreements on favorable terms with contract manufacturers or distributors, or these parties fail to supply required materials or comply with regulatory requirements, or if we fail to timely locate and obtain regulatory approval for additional or replacement manufacturers or distributors as needed, it could impair or prevent our ability to deliver our future commercial products on a timely basis, or at all, which in turn would materially and adversely harm our business and financial results. Healthcare reform and restrictions on reimbursements may limit our financial returns. Our ability to commercialize our product candidates successfully will depend, in part, on the timeliness of, and the extent to which adequate coverage and reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments is, obtained from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations in the U.S. and foreign markets. These third parties are increasingly challenging both the need for and the price of new drug products. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved therapeutics. Applications or re-applications for coverage and reimbursement for any of our products may not result in approvals. Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available for our product candidates to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investments in research and product development. We may become involved in legal proceedings from time to time and if there is an adverse outcome in our litigation or other legal actions, our business may be harmed. We may become involved in legal actions in the ordinary course of our business. Litigation may result in verdicts against us, including excessive verdicts, which may include a judgment with a significant monetary award, as occurred in 2008 in the litigation with Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, including the possibility of punitive 30 damages, a judgment that certain of our patent or other intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable and, as occurred in 2006 in the litigation with TAP Pharmaceuticals in the U.S., the risk that an injunction could be issued preventing the manufacture, marketing and sale of our products that are the subject of the litigation. In addition, we may become involved in disputes or legal actions as a result of our past strategic corporate restructurings. Under the strategic restructuring undertaken in 2008 and 2009, we divested Eligard (as part of the sale of QLT USA), Aczone® and Atrigel and sold the land and building comprising our Canadian headquarters. More recently, we sold all of our assets related to Visudyne to Valeant pursuant to the terms of an asset purchase agreement, and we agreed to perform certain transition services for Valeant. We also entered into an exclusive option agreement in December 2012 with Mati pursuant to which we granted Mati a 90-day option to acquire assets related to the Company’s punctal plug delivery system. Transactions such as these may result in disputes regarding representations and warranties, indemnities, future payments or other matters, and we may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of these transactions. For example, $7.5 million of the purchase price under the Visudyne asset purchase agreement will be held in escrow for one year following the closing date to satisfy indemnification claims that Valeant may have under the asset purchase agreement. If Valeant makes a claim for indemnification within that time period and that claim is successful, some or all of this portion of the purchase price may not be released to us. If disputes are resolved unfavorably, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Additionally, any litigation, whether or not successful, may damage our reputation. Furthermore, we will have to incur substantial expense in defending these lawsuits and the time demands of such lawsuits could divert management’s attention from ongoing business concerns and interfere with our normal operations. In addition, the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of human pharmaceutical products entail significant inherent risks of allegations of product liability. Our use of such products and medical devices in clinical trials exposes us to liability claims allegedly resulting from the use of these products or devices. These risks exist even with respect to those products or devices that are approved for commercial sale by the FDA or applicable foreign regulatory authorities and manufactured in facilities licensed and regulated by those regulatory authorities. Our current insurance may not provide coverage or adequate coverage against potential claims, losses or damages resulting from such litigation. We also cannot be certain that our current coverage will continue to be available in the future on reasonable terms, if at all. If we were found liable for any claims in excess of our coverage or outside of our coverage, the cost and expense of such liability could materially harm our business and financial condition. Our use of hazardous materials exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities, and we may incur substantial additional costs to comply with environmental laws. Our research, development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous chemicals, primarily flammable solvents, corrosives, and toxins. The biologic materials include microbiological cultures, animal tissue and serum samples. Some experimental and clinical materials include human source tissue or fluid samples. We are subject to federal, state/provincial and local government regulation in the use, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous and radioactive materials. If any of these materials resulted in contamination or injury, or if we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be subject to fines and other liabilities, and any such liabilities could exceed our resources. Our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses related to our use of any such materials, and we cannot be certain that our current insurance coverage will continue to be available on reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, any new regulation or change to an existing regulation could require us to implement costly capital or operating improvements for which we have not budgeted. Our provision for income taxes and effective income tax rate may vary significantly and may adversely affect our results of operations and cash resources. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. Various internal and external factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our future provision for income taxes, income taxes 31 receivable, and our effective income tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in tax laws, regulations and/or rates, results of audits by tax authorities, changing interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations, changes in estimates of prior years’ items, the impact of transactions we complete, future levels of research and development spending, changes in the overall mix of income among the different jurisdictions in which we operate, and changes in overall levels of income before taxes. Furthermore, new accounting pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements (such as those described in Note 3 - Significant Accounting Policies in Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements) can have a material impact on our effective income tax rate. We file income tax returns and pay income taxes in jurisdictions where we believe we are subject to tax. In jurisdictions in which we do not believe we are subject to tax and therefore do not file income tax returns, we can provide no certainty that tax authorities in those jurisdictions will not subject one or more tax years (since our inception) to examination. Tax examinations are often complex as tax authorities may disagree with the treatment of items reported by us, the result of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred losses from continuing operations for the last five years and expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We generated net losses for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. Although we earned net income for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012, 2009 and 2008, we incurred a loss from continuing operations in each of those years. Our accumulated deficit at December 31, 2012 was approximately $482.4 million. Even though we expect our research and development expenses to decrease in the future due to the potential sale or out-license of our punctal plug drug delivery system, we expect to continue to incur net losses from continuing operations for the foreseeable future due to clinical development costs related to our synthetic retinoid product and no revenue generating activities. We are uncertain when or if we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability. If we are unable to achieve or sustain profitability in the future, our stock price may decline. Our operating expenses may fluctuate, which may cause our financial results to be below expectations and the market price of our securities to decline. Our operating expenses may fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons, some of which are beyond our control. An increase in operating expenses could arise from any number of factors, such as: • increased costs associated with the research and development of our product candidates; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and • product, technology or other acquisitions or business combinations. The market price of our common shares is volatile and the value of an investment in our common shares could decline. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies, including QLT, have been and are likely to continue to be volatile. As a result, investors in companies such as ours often buy at high prices only to see the price drop substantially a short time later, resulting in an extreme drop in value in the holdings of these investors. Trading prices of the securities of many biotechnology companies, including us, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations which have, at times, been unrelated to the operating performance of the companies whose securities were affected. Some of the factors that may cause volatility in the price of our securities include: • results of our research and development programs; • issues with the safety or effectiveness of our product candidates; 32 • announcements related to our strategic restructuring, including a strategic transaction involving our punctal plug delivery system technology or return of capital to shareholders; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • litigation commenced against us; • regulatory developments or delays concerning our products; • quarterly variations in our financial results; and • the timing and amounts of contingent consideration paid to us by third parties. The price of our common shares may also be adversely affected by the estimates and projections of the investment community, general economic and market conditions, and the cost of operations in our product markets. Due to general economic conditions and the recent worldwide economic downturn, extreme price and volume fluctuations occur in the stock market from time to time that can particularly affect the prices of biotechnology companies. These extreme fluctuations are sometimes unrelated or disproportionate to the actual performance of the affected companies. In addition, in September 2012, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to 3,438,683 shares of our common shares over the next 12 months, which is the maximum number of shares permitted to be purchased under the rules of the Toronto Stock Exchange and represents 10% of the public float. The share repurchase program has been and will be funded from existing cash on hand. By repurchasing our common shares we may reduce liquidity of our common shares in the open market and could experience increased volatility in our share price. If we fail to manage our exposure to global financial, securities market and foreign exchange risk successfully, our operating results and financial statements could be materially impacted. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maintaining liquidity and maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. To achieve this objective, our cash equivalents are high credit quality, liquid, money market instruments. If the carrying value of our investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we will be required to write down the value of our investments, which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, the performance of certain securities in our investment portfolio may correlate with the credit condition of governments, government agencies, financial institutions and corporate issuers. If the credit environment were to become unstable, as it did in the second half of 2008 and throughout much of 2009, we might incur significant realized, unrealized or impairment losses associated with these investments. The functional currency of the Company is the U.S. dollar. As a result, to the extent that foreign currency-denominated (i.e., non-USD) monetary assets do not equal the amount of our foreign currency-denominated monetary liabilities, foreign currency gains or losses could arise and materially impact our financial statements. Any of these events could have a significant negative impact on our business and financial results. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 