Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this Report, you should consider carefully the following factors, which describe the risks, uncertainties and other factors that may materially and adversely affect our business, products, financial condition and operating results. The following is a description of important factors that may cause our actual results of operation in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or discussed in forward-looking statements set forth in this Report relating to our financial results, operations and business prospects. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which it is made. Risks Relating to Our Business We may not be successful in addressing competition for Visudyne, Eligard or our other products. 24 We may be unable to contend successfully with current or future competitors. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are characterized by rapidly evolving technology and intense competition. Our competitors include major pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies, many of which have access to financial, technical and marketing resources significantly greater than ours and substantially greater experience in developing and manufacturing products, conducting preclinical and clinical testing and obtaining regulatory approvals. We are aware of a number of competitors and potential competitors to our products and the impact on the sales of our products and our revenue from the sales of our products may be material. Some of these competitors are also our collaborators. For example, Novartis Ophthalmics, who has the marketing rights to our product Visudyne, also has rights to market Lucentis outside of the United States, a product that is competitive with Visudyne. More information on the competitors and potential competitors can be found under Item 1. Business-Competition. If there is an adverse outcome in the ongoing litigation in which we are or may become involved, our business may be harmed. We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in litigation and may in the future become involve in various other litigation in the ordinary course of our business. We are currently a defendant in a number of lawsuits filed against QLT Inc. or QLT USA, Inc. which we consider to be potentially material to our business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur which may include a judgment with significant monetary award, including the possibility of punitive damages, a judgment that certain of our patent or other intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable and, as occurred in 2006 in the U.S. litigation with TAP Pharmaceuticals, the risk that an injunction could be issued preventing the manufacture, marketing and sale of our products that are the subject of the litigation. Furthermore, we will have to incur substantial expense in defending these lawsuits and the time demands of these lawsuits could divert management’s attention from ongoing business concerns and interfere with our normal operations. For a description of the material litigation in which we are currently involved, see Item 3 — Legal Proceedings. We are also from time to time a defendant in other litigation that because either the amount claimed is not material or because we believe that the claim is covered by insurance and that, in our reasonable judgment, we do not expect the damages if we are found liable to exceed the insured limits. However, it is possible that as new information becomes available, the amount of damages in such cases exceeds our insured limits or our insurer ultimately denies full coverage that we may be subject to additional unforeseen damages that could ultimately be material and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on third parties to market Visudyne and Eligard. We are dependent on third parties for the research, development, and commercialization of our products. A significant portion of our revenue depends on the efforts of Novartis Ophthalmics to market and sell Visudyne. Our strategy for the development and commercialization of our products includes entering into various arrangements with third parties and therefore is dependent on the subsequent success of these third parties in performing their responsibilities under such arrangements. Although we believe that parties to our collaborative arrangements have an economic incentive to succeed in performing their contractual responsibilities, the amount and timing of resources to be devoted to these activities generally are not under our control. For example, the terms of our agreement with Novartis Ophthalmics do not restrict Novartis Ophthalmics from commercializing, whether by itself or in collaboration with third parties, non-PDT products that could be competitive with Visudyne. Novartis entered into a license arrangement with Genentech, Inc. in which Novartis Ophthalmics has been granted a license to the rights outside of the United States to Lucentis, a product that has been approved for the treatment of wet AMD, and is a competing product to Visudyne. We cannot predict whether such parties will perform their obligations as expected or whether significant revenue will be derived or sustained from such arrangements. To the extent such parties do not perform adequately under our various agreements with them, the development and commercialization of our products may be delayed, may become more costly to us or may be terminated, and may require us to expend significant amounts of time and money to find new collaborators and structure alternative arrangements. Disputes with a collaborator could delay a program on which we are working with the collaborator and could result in expensive arbitration or litigation, which may not be resolved in our favor. 25 The success of Visudyne, Eligard and our other products may be limited by governmental and other third-party payers. The continuing efforts of governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care may negatively affect the sale of Visudyne, Eligard and our other products. Our ability to commercialize Visudyne, Eligard and our other products successfully will depend in part on the timeliness of and the extent to which adequate reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments is obtained from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations in the U.S. and foreign markets. Product sales, attempts to gain market share or introductory pricing programs of our competitors could require us to lower our prices, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We may be unable to set or maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved therapeutic products or newly approved product indications. In both the United States and some non-U.S. jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In the United States, new legislation may be proposed at the federal and state levels that would result in significant changes to the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. Effective January 2004, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act, or MMA, changed the methodology used to calculate reimbursement for drugs such as Visudyne and Eligard that are administered in physicians’ offices in a manner intended to reduce the amount that is subject to reimbursement. In addition, beginning in January 2006, the legislation directs the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, to contract with procurement organizations to purchase physician-administered drugs from the manufacturers and provides physicians with the option to obtain drugs through these organizations as an alternative to purchasing from the manufacturers, which some physicians may find advantageous. These changes may also cause private insurers to reduce the amounts that they will pay for physician-administered drugs. In addition, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, the agency within HHS that administers Medicare and is responsible for reimbursement of the cost of Visudyne and Eligard, has asserted the authority of Medicare not to cover particular drugs if it determines that they are not “reasonable and necessary” for Medicare beneficiaries or to cover them at a lesser rate, comparable to that for drugs already reimbursed that CMS considers to be therapeutically comparable. Further federal and state proposals and healthcare reforms are likely. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation, by the possible effect of this legislation on amounts that private insurers will pay and by other healthcare reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future. There can be no assurance that any of our applications or re-applications for reimbursement for any of our products will result in approvals or that our current reimbursement approvals for Visudyne, Eligard and our other products will not be reduced or reversed in whole or in part. If we were to have reimbursement reduced or reversed, the market for the affected product may be materially impaired and could materially harm our business and future revenues from that product. For example, while we believe that the results seen in the Visudyne in occult, or VIO, study did not contradict results seen in prior studies, because the VIO study failed to meet its primary endpoint, there is a risk that reimbursement for Visudyne in the occult form of wet AMD could be re-evaluated in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere by the applicable governmental authorities. If they were to reduce or reverse prior reimbursement decisions for Visudyne in the occult form of wet AMD, this could materially adversely affect our future sales and revenue from Visudyne. We may not successfully develop and launch replacements for our products that lose patent protection. Most of our products are covered by patents that give us a degree of market exclusivity during the term of the patent. A description of the key patents protecting Visudyne, Eligard, Aczone, Atrigel and our other late stage products are set out in Item 1 under the heading “Patents, Trademarks and Proprietary Rights”. Upon patent expiration, our competitors may introduce products or, in the case of Atrigel, drug delivery technology, using the same technology. As a result of this possible increase in competition, we may need to charge a lower price in order to maintain sales of our products or may lose a competitive advantage and marketability of our Atrigel drug delivery technology which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to develop and successfully launch new products prior to the expiration of patents for our existing products, our revenue from those products could decline significantly. We may not be able to develop and successfully launch more advanced replacement products and/or drug delivery technologies before these and other patents expire. Competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry for new products is increasing and the amount required to be paid to acquire or in-license new products may be prohibitive and negatively affect our ability to successfully acquire or in-license new products. 26 We may not be able to obtain and enforce effective patents to protect our proprietary rights from use by competitors, and patents of other companies could require us to stop using or pay to use required technology. We may not be able to obtain and enforce patents, to maintain trade secret protection for our technology and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. The extent to which we are unable to do so could materially harm our business. We have applied for and will continue to apply for patents for certain aspects of Visudyne, Eligard, Aczone and our other products and technology. Such applications may not result in the issuance of any patents, and any patents now held or that may be issued may not provide us with a preferred position with respect to any product or technology. It is possible that patents issued or licensed to us may be challenged successfully. In that event, to the extent a preferred position is conferred by such patents, any preferred position held by us would be lost. If we are unable to secure or to continue to maintain a preferred position, Visudyne and our other products could become subject to competition from the sale of generic products. In addition, we have an exclusive worldwide license from the University of British Columbia, or UBC, (see “Patents, Trademarks and Proprietary Rights” above) for all of the patents and know-how owned by UBC relating to verteporfin (Visudyne), lemuteporfin and certain additional photosensitizers and their use as therapeutics or diagnostics. Under our license agreement with UBC, if we fail to make any required payments to UBC, it would have the right to terminate these licenses. Under our license agreement with Massachusetts General Hospital, or MGH, it would have the right to terminate the license if we defaulted under the agreement and failed to cure such default within 60 days. Patents issued or licensed to us may be infringed by the products or processes of other parties. The cost of enforcing our patent rights against infringers, if such enforcement is required, could be significant, and the time demands could interfere with our normal operations. It is also possible that a court may find us to be infringing validly issued patents of third parties. In that event, in addition to the cost of defending the underlying suit for infringement, we may have to pay license fees and/or damages and may be enjoined from conducting certain activities. Obtaining licenses under third-party patents can be costly, and such licenses may not be available at all. Under such circumstances, we may need to materially alter our products or processes or may lose the right to continue to manufacture and sell a product entirely for a period of time. Unpatented trade secrets, improvements, confidential know-how and continuing technological innovation are important to our scientific and commercial success. Although we attempt to and will continue to attempt to protect our proprietary information through reliance on trade secret laws and the use of confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, collaborators, employees and consultants and other appropriate means, these measures may not effectively prevent disclosure of our proprietary information, and, in any event, others may develop independently, or obtain access to, the same or similar information. Resources devoted to research and development may not yield new products that achieve commercial success. We devote substantial resources to research and development. The research and development process is expensive, prolonged and entails considerable uncertainty. Development of a new product, from discovery through testing and registration to initial product launch, typically takes between eight and fifteen years or more for a pharmaceutical product. Each of these periods varies considerably from product to product and country to country. Because of the complexities and uncertainties associated with research and development, products we are currently developing may not complete the development process or obtain the regulatory approvals required for us to market such products successfully. We can make no assurances that any of the products currently in our development pipeline will be commercially successful. The incidence of wet AMD might be reduced if therapies currently in development or currently available prevent or reduce the risk of development of wet AMD which could adversely impact the sales of Visudyne. We are aware that Alcon has initiated a Phase III clinical trial to evaluate the use of Retaane (Anacortave Acetate) as a treatment for patients with the dry form of AMD who are at high risk of developing wet AMD, with the objective of preventing the occurrence of wet AMD. There are also a number of other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies conducting research towards other treatments for dry AMD. We are also aware of published reports of studies showing that supplemental vitamin therapies reduce the risk of development of wet AMD. If these studies show that new therapies are effective to treat dry AMD or if supplemental vitamin usage becomes common place in patients with dry AMD, the incidence of wet AMD, which often develops in patients initially diagnosed with dry AMD, might be reduced, and Visudyne sales and our revenues could be materially reduced. 27 We may be unable to manufacture or continue to efficiently manufacture Visudyne, Eligard or our other products in compliance with FDA and other regulatory requirements or our product specifications. We depend on several third parties in the U.S., Canada, Europe and Japan to manufacture Visudyne and Eligard, and if such third parties fail to meet their respective contractual commitments, we may not be able to supply or continue to supply commercial quantities of the product or conduct certain future clinical testing. (a) Visudyne For the manufacture of Visudyne, we are dependent upon Nippon Fine Chemicals, Parkedale Pharmaceuticals Inc., Orgapharm S.A.S. and Hollister-Stier Laboratories LLC to manufacture Visudyne or components thereof. Raylo Chemicals manufactures an intermediate used in manufacturing Visudyne. As a result of the acquisition of Raylo Chemicals by a third party, Raylo Chemicals has given notice of its intention to terminate that manufacturing agreement, which termination we believe will be effective January 1, 2010. We believe we currently have sufficient quantities of that intermediate to meet our anticipated demand for Visudyne and are in the process of identifying alternative manufacturers. In the event we are unable to locate and qualify an alternate manufacturer to Raylo Chemicals, our future supply of Visudyne could be materially affected. Our agreement with Nippon Fine Chemicals is in effect for a term ending on December 31, 2008. Our agreement with Parkedale Pharmaceuticals Inc. is in effect for a term expiring December 31, 2009. The agreement with Orgapharm is effective for a period of 5 years from the date of commercial approval of the Visudyne component by either the EU regulatory authorities, or the U.S. and the Canadian regulatory authorities, whichever is earlier. The agreement with Hollister-Stier is in effect for 5 years from the date of applicable regulatory approval for the component product, after which it will renew for additional 2 year periods unless one party provides the other with 36 months advance notice of its intention not to renew. Although none of these agreements is terminable by the other party for convenience, if we were to commit a default under or breach of any of such agreements, the other party could terminate such agreement. We may be unable to renew such agreements after their expiry on terms which are commercially acceptable to us. (b) Eligard For the manufacture of Eligard we are dependant upon a number of manufacturers and suppliers, principally Tolmar Inc. and Chesapeake Biological laboratories Inc. Tolmar has recently purchased our FDA approved sterile filling and lyophilization (freeze drying) facility in Fort Collins, Colorado. We currently contract with Tolmar for the sterile filling and lyophilization process for the drug syringe as well as the manufacture of the delivery system syringe and final packaging of our Eligard products. We continue to maintain Chesapeake Biological Laboratories (another approved contract manufacturer) as an alternate to outsource the filling and lyophilization of the drug syringe. We rely on these manufacturers for this highly specialized service. Our contract with Tolmar is for a period of seven years commencing December 22, 2006, and automatically extends for successive terms of four years each, unless either party notifies the other party that it does not intend to renew this agreement at least three years prior to the last day of the then current term. Our contract with Chesapeake Biological Laboratories is for a period of two years commencing January 23, 2004, and automatically renews for additional one-year terms unless either party provides notice on non-renewal more than 90 days prior to termination, which has not occurred at this time. If our relationship with Tolmar was to deteriorate or terminate, production of our Eligard products may be temporarily discontinued for several months and result in a material loss of revenue. If our relationship with Chesapeake Biological Laboratories, Inc. were to deteriorate or terminate, we could continue to manufacture the Eligard products at the Tolmar facility. Our ability to conduct clinical trials and commercialize Visudyne, Eligard and our other products, either directly or in conjunction with others, depends, in large part, on our ability to have such products manufactured at a competitive cost and in accordance with FDA and other regulatory requirements as well as our product specifications. Our contract manufacturers’ manufacturing and quality procedures may not achieve or maintain compliance with applicable FDA and other regulatory standards or product specifications, and, even if they do, we may be unable to produce or continue to produce commercial quantities of Visudyne and our other products at an acceptable cost or margin. 28 If current manufacturing processes are modified, or the source or location of our product supply is changed (voluntarily or involuntarily), regulatory authorities will require us to demonstrate that the material produced from the modified or new process or facility is equivalent to the material used in the clinical trials or products previously approved. Any such modifications to the manufacturing process or supply may not achieve or maintain compliance with the applicable regulatory requirements or our product specifications. In many cases, prior approval by regulatory authorities may be required before any changes can be instituted. If our manufacturers produce one or more product batches that do not conform to FDA or other regulatory requirements, or our product specifications, or if they introduce changes to their manufacturing processes, our manufacturing expenses may increase materially, our product inventories may be reduced to unacceptable levels and/or our ability to meet demand for Visudyne may be detrimentally impacted, possibly materially. In the field of Photodynamic Therapy, or PDT, we are dependent on the success and continued supply of third-party medical device companies with complementary light source and light delivery devices by third party suppliers. We currently depend on third-party suppliers, Carl Zeiss-Meditic, Lumenis and Quantel to provide the laser light delivery devices for Visudyne therapy and to service such devices. Because PDT requires a light source, and in some instances a light delivery system, to be used in conjunction with our photosensitizers, we are dependent on the success of these medical device companies in placing and maintaining light sources with the appropriate medical facilities, in distributing the light delivery systems and servicing such systems as required. Carl Zeiss-Meditic, Lumenis and Quantel supply such lasers to treating physicians directly, and neither QLT nor Novartis Ophthalmics has a supply or distribution agreement with either Carl Zeiss-Meditic, Lumenis or Quantel for the supply of such devices. The relationship between our Company or Novartis Ophthalmics and such suppliers, under which we or Novartis Ophthalmics provides support and assistance to such suppliers, is an informal collaboration only. If one or more of the medical device companies with whom we or Novartis Ophthalmics have such collaborations cease to carry on business, or if they no longer supply complementary light sources or light delivery systems or if they or we are unable to achieve the appropriate placements of light sources and ensure an uninterrupted supply and ongoing maintenance of light delivery systems to treating physicians, sales of Visudyne and our revenues from the sale of Visudyne may be materially adversely affected. The expected lifecycle of the laser light delivery devices for Visudyne therapy is approximately five to eight years. Therefore, in the coming years, we expect that many of these lasers will need significant upgrades or will need to be replaced. Customers may decide not to invest in purchasing a new laser in light of emerging competitive therapies which do not require a medical device and this could negatively impact our future sales, possibly materially. If our supply of finished products is interrupted, our ability to maintain our inventory levels could suffer and future revenues may be delayed. We try to maintain inventory levels that are no greater than necessary to meet our current projections. Any interruption in the supply of finished products could hinder our ability to timely distribute finished products. If we are unable to obtain adequate product supplies to satisfy our customers’ orders, we may lose those orders and our customers may cancel other orders and seek monetary compensation if permitted under the agreement with the customer stock and sell competing products. This in turn could cause a loss of our market share and negatively affect our revenues. Supply interruptions may occur and our inventory may not always be adequate. Numerous factors could cause interruptions in the supply of our finished products including shortages in raw material required by our manufacturers, changes in our sources for manufacturing, our failure to timely locate and obtain replacement manufacturers as needed and conditions affecting the cost and availability of raw materials. We may face future product liability claims that may result from the sale of Visudyne, Eligard and our other products. The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of human pharmaceutical products entail significant inherent risks of allegations of product liability. Our use of such products in clinical trials and our sale of Visudyne, Eligard and our other product candidates may expose us to liability claims allegedly resulting from the use of these products. These claims might be made directly by consumers, healthcare providers or others selling our products. We carry clinical trials and product liability insurance to cover certain claims that could arise during the clinical trials for our product 29 candidates or during the commercial use of Visudyne, Eligard or our other products. Such coverage, and any coverage obtained in the future, may be inadequate to protect us in the event of a successful product liability claim, and we may not be able to increase the amount of such insurance or even renew it. A successful product liability claim could materially harm our business. In addition, substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur large expenditures and divert our management’s attention from ongoing business concerns and interfere with our normal operations. Our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in identifying, negotiating or integrating future acquisitions, business combinations or strategic alliances. From time to time, we may engage in negotiations to expand our operations and market presence by future product, technology or other acquisitions and business combinations, joint ventures or other strategic alliances with other companies. We may not be successful in identifying, initiating or completing such negotiations. Competition for attractive product acquisition or alliance targets can be intense, and there can be no guarantee that we will succeed in completing such transactions on terms that are acceptable to us. Even if we are successful in these negotiations, these transactions create risks, such as the difficulties in assimilating the operations and personnel of an acquired business, the potential disruption to our ongoing business, and the potential negative impact on our earnings. We may not succeed in addressing these risks. If we are not successful, our business could suffer. We are undergoing significant strategic and organizational change. Failure to manage disruption to the business or the loss of key personnel could have an adverse effect on our business. As part of our new strategic direction we have made significant changes to both management and organizational structure. We recently announced further restructuring and the divestiture of our dental business and our non-core dermatology assets and related manufacturing facilities. As a result of this, morale may be lowered and key employees may decide to leave, or may be distracted from their usual roles. This could result in delays in development projects, failure to achieve targets or other disruption to the business. Research, Development and Regulatory Risks We may not be successful in our efforts to develop, license or acquire new products in targeted therapeutic segments. A key element of our strategy is to develop a portfolio of new drugs in our targeted therapeutic areas. We are seeking to do so through our internal research programs and through licensing or otherwise acquiring the rights to potential new drugs and drug targets in targeted therapeutic segments. A significant portion of the research that we are conducting involves new and unproven technologies. Research programs to identify new disease targets and product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources whether or not we ultimately identify any candidates. Our research programs may initially show promise in identifying potential product candidates, yet fail to yield product candidates for clinical development. We may be unable to license or acquire suitable product from third parties for a number of reasons. In particular, the licensing and acquisition of pharmaceutical products is a competitive area. A number of more established companies are also pursuing strategies to license or acquire products in the ophthalmic and other fields. These established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, cash resources and greater clinical development and commercial capabilities. If we are unable to develop suitable potential product candidates through internal research programs or by obtaining rights to novel therapeutics from third parties, our business will suffer. Our products in clinical trials may not achieve favorable results, may fail to achieve or maintain regulatory approvals or market acceptance, or may encounter difficulties with proprietary rights or manufacturing. Our success depends on our ability to successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval to market new pharmaceutical products. Development of a product requires substantial technical, financial and human resources even if such product development is not successfully completed. The outcome of the lengthy and complex process of new product development is inherently uncertain. 30 We might fail to obtain the additional regulatory approvals we are seeking to expand our product line and the indications for which our products are approved. Those approvals may be delayed, may not be obtained or may be more limited than anticipated. We may lose market opportunities resulting from delays and uncertainties in the regulatory approval process. If we do not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we announce and expect, the commercialization of our products may be delayed and, as a result, our business could be harmed. From time to time, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development goals, which we sometimes refer to as milestones. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission of regulatory filings. From time to time, we publicly announce the expected timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, or they might not be achieved, in some cases for reasons beyond our control. If we do not meet these milestones as publicly announced, the commercialization of our products may be delayed and, as a result, our business could be harmed. Patient enrollment may not be adequate for our current trials or future clinical trials. Our future prospects could suffer if we fail to develop and maintain sufficient levels of patient enrolment in our current or future clinical trials. Delays in planned patient enrollment may result in increased costs, delays or termination of clinical trials, which could materially harm our future prospects. Visudyne, Eligard or our other products may exhibit adverse side effects that prevent their widespread adoption or that necessitate withdrawal from the market. Even after approval by the FDA and other regulatory authorities, Visudyne, Eligard or our other products may later exhibit adverse side effects that prevent widespread use or necessitate withdrawal from the market. Undesirable side effects not previously observed during clinical trials could emerge in the future. The manifestation of such side effects could cause our business to suffer. In some cases, regulatory authorities may require labeling changes that could add warnings or restrict usage based on adverse side effects seen after marketing a drug. We may be unable to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements. Our commercial products and our products under development are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation for safety, efficacy and quality by the U.S. federal government, principally the FDA, and by state and local governments. To the extent Visudyne, Eligard, our other commercial products or products under development are marketed abroad, they are also subject to export requirements and to regulation by foreign governments. The regulatory clearance process is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. We may not be able to obtain, or continue to obtain, necessary regulatory clearances or approvals on a timely basis, or at all, for any of our commercial products or any of our products under development, and delays in receipt or failure to receive such clearances or approvals, the loss of previously received clearances or approvals, or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could materially harm our business. Drugs manufactured or distributed pursuant to the FDA’s approval are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA, certain state agencies and various foreign governmental regulatory agencies such as the EMEA. Manufacturers are subject to inspection by the FDA and regulatory agencies from other jurisdictions. We must comply with a host of regulatory requirements that usually apply to drugs marketed in the U.S. and elsewhere, to our clinical development programs and to investigator sponsored studies that we may from time-to-time support, including but not limited to labeling regulations, Good Manufacturing Practice requirements, adverse event reporting and general prohibitions against promoting products for unapproved or “off-label” uses imposed by the FDA and regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions. Our failure to comply with applicable requirements could result in sanctions being imposed on us. These sanctions could include warning letters, fines, product recalls or seizures, injunctions, refusals to permit products to be imported into or exported out of the U.S. or elsewhere, FDA or other regulatory agency refusal to grant approval of drugs or to allow us to enter into governmental supply contracts, withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications and criminal prosecutions. We, our contract manufacturers, all of our subsuppliers, as well as the suppliers of the medical lasers required for Visudyne and other PDT therapy, are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to such matters as 31 safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. In addition, advertising and promotional materials relating to medical devices and drugs are, in certain instances, subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission, the FDA and other regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions. We, our contract manufacturers, subsuppliers and laser suppliers may be required to incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations in the future, and such laws or regulations may materially harm our business. Unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements, the failure of us, or any of these manufacturers, subsuppliers or suppliers to comply with such requirements or the adoption of new requirements could materially harm our business. As noted above, all of our contract manufacturers must comply with the applicable FDA cGMP regulations, which include quality control and quality assurance requirements as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. If our contract manufacturers do not comply with the applicable cGMP regulations and other applicable regulatory requirements, the availability of marketed products for sale could be reduced and we could suffer delays in the progress of clinical trials for products under development. We do not have full control over our third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. The loss of a contract manufacturer could have a negative effect on our sales, margins and market share, as well as our overall business and financial results. In the future, in the event we are involved directly in the marketing or promotion of our products, our activities relating to the sale and marketing of our products are subject to regulation under the U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal statutes. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). We are also subject to various U.S. federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, receive, or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions, it is possible that our practices might be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payers (including Medicare and Medicaid) claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). If a court were to find us liable for violating these laws, or if the government were to allege against or convict us of violating these laws, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, including on our stock price. We are subject to environmental compliance risks. Our research, development and manufacturing areas involve the controlled use of hazardous chemicals, primarily flammable solvents, corrosives, and toxins. The biologic materials include microbiological cultures, animal tissue and serum samples. Some experimental and clinical materials include human source tissue or fluid samples. We are subject to federal, state/provincial and local government regulation in the conduct of business, including regulations on employee safety and handling and disposal of hazardous and radioactive materials. Any new regulation or change to an existing regulation could require it to implement costly capital or operating improvements for which we have not budgeted. If we do not comply with these regulations, we may be subject to fines and other liabilities. Risks Relating to Our Financial Results and Condition Our future operating results are uncertain and likely to fluctuate. Although we were profitable for the years 2000-2003, 2004 was impacted by a charge of $236.0 million for purchase of in-process research and development related to the Atrix acquisition, 2005 was impacted by a $410.5 million non-cash charge for impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets that resulted from the Atrix acquisition, and 2006 was impacted by a litigation settlement charge of $112.5 million related to ongoing patent litigation. Future operating performance and profitability are not certain. Our accumulated deficit at December 31, 2006 was approximately $ 603.3 million. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons. A revenue shortfall or increase in operating expenses could arise from any number of factors, such as: 32 1. lower than expected revenues from sales of Visudyne or Eligard; 2. changes in pricing strategies or reimbursement levels for Visudyne or Eligard; 3. seasonal fluctuations, particularly in the third quarter due to decreased demand for Visudyne in the summer months; 4. high levels of marketing expenses for Visudyne or the launch of additional competitors to Visudyne or Eligard; 5. fluctuations in currency exchange rates; 6. unfavorable outcome of the German Eligard patent litigation commenced against QLT USA, Inc.’s German licensees by Takeda Chemical industries Ltd. and Takeda Pharma Gmbh; 7. unfavorable outcome in the litigation commenced by Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary against QLT; 8. higher than expected operating expenses as a result of increased costs associated with the development or commercialization of Visudyne, Eligard, Aczone and our other products and candidates; and 9. increased operating expenses as a result of product, technology or other acquisitions or business combinations. Future sales of Visudyne, Eligard and our other products may be less than expected. Our prospects are dependent on the sales of Visudyne, Eligard and our other products. Our revenues to date have consisted largely of revenue from product sales of Visudyne or Eligard. If sales of Visudyne or Eligard, beyond levels that we anticipate, fail to occur it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our revenues from Visudyne, Eligard and our other products licensed to third parties could vary significantly in future periods. Our provision for income taxes and effective income tax rate may vary significantly and may adversely affect our results of operations and cash resources. Significant judgement is required in determining our provision for income taxes. Various internal and external factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our future provision for income taxes and or effective income tax rate. These factors include but are not limited to changes in tax laws, regulations and/or rates, results of audits by tax authorities, changing interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations, changes in estimates of prior years’ items, future levels of R&D spending, and changes in overall levels of income before taxes. Furthermore, new accounting pronouncements or new interpretation of existing accounting pronouncements, such as those described in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, can have a material impact on our effective income tax rate. We may need additional capital in the future, and our prospects for obtaining it are uncertain. Our business may not generate the cash necessary to fund our operations and anticipated growth. The amount required to fund additional operating expenses will also depend on other factors, including the status of competitive products, the success of our research and development programs, the extent and success of any collaborative research arrangements, any amounts we may be required to pay in connection with any ongoing litigation as a result of an adverse court decision or any settlement agreement that we may enter into, and the results of product, technology or other acquisitions or business combinations. We could seek additional funds in the future from a combination of sources, including product licensing, joint development and other financing arrangements. In addition, we may issue debt or equity securities if we determine that additional cash resources could be obtained under favorable conditions or if future development funding requirements cannot be satisfied with available cash resources. Additional capital may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate capital is unavailable, we may not be able to engage in desirable acquisition or in-licensing opportunities and may have to reduce substantially or eliminate expenditures for research, development, clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing for Visudyne, Eligard and our other products. We have convertible debt outstanding, which, if not converted into equity, will require a significant amount of cash and may adversely affect our financial position and cash resources. 33 As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $172.5 million of convertible debt bearing interest at the rate of 3% per annum and due in 2023. On each of September 15, 2008, 2013 and 2018, holders of the notes may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes for cash at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, that date. On the occurrence of certain events, such as a change in control or termination of trading, holders of the notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes for cash at a price equal to the principal amount plus accrued unpaid interest to, but excluding, the repurchase date. The notes also become immediately due and payable upon certain events of default by us. In the event that the holders of the convertible debt elect to require repayment of the debt instead of conversion to our common shares, our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including our convertible debt obligation, and to fund planned capital expenditures, R&D, as well as stock repurchases and expansion efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are and will remain beyond our control. Additionally, our indebtedness may increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, R&D, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes, and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. The market price of our common shares is extremely volatile. The stock prices of biopharmaceutical companies, including QLT, are extremely volatile, and it is likely that the market price of our common shares will continue to be highly volatile and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Various provisions of our charter and our shareholder rights plan may have the effect of impeding a change in control that are beneficial to our shareholders. With shareholder approval, we have adopted a shareholder rights plan that will be in effect until our annual general meeting in 2008. The general effect of the plan is to require anyone who seeks to acquire 20% or more of our outstanding common shares to make a bid complying with specific provisions included in the plan. In certain circumstances, holders of common shares may acquire additional shares of QLT (or those of the acquirer) at a 50% discount from the then-prevailing market price. The provisions of the plan could prevent or delay the acquisition of our company by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise, making it more difficult for shareholders to receive any premium over the current market price that might be offered. Our authorized preference share capital is available for issuance from time to time at the discretion of our board of directors, without shareholder approval. Our charter grants the board of directors the authority, subject to the corporate laws of British Columbia, to determine or alter the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions granted to or imposed on any wholly unissued series of preference shares, including any dividend rate, voting rights, conversion privileges or redemption or liquidation rights. The rights of any future series of preference shares could have an adverse effect on the holders of our common shares by delaying or preventing a change of control, making removal of the present management more difficult or resulting in restrictions on the payment of dividends and other distributions to the holders of common shares. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 