Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this Report, you should consider carefully the following factors, which describe the risks, uncertainties and other factors that may materially and adversely affect our business, products, financial condition and operating results. There are many factors that affect our business and our results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of important factors that may cause our actual results of operations in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or discussed in forward-looking statements set forth in this Report relating to our financial results, operations and business prospects. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which it is made. Our commercial efforts are dependent upon obtaining regulatory approval for our product candidates. The regulatory approval process is costly and lengthy and we may not be able to successfully obtain all required regulatory approvals. If we fail to obtain all required regulatory approvals, our business may suffer. As part of the regulatory approval process, we must conduct, at our own expense, preclinical studies and clinical trials on humans for each product candidate. Generally, in order to gain approval for a product, we must provide the FDA and other applicable regulatory authorities with clinical data that adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of that product for the intended disease or condition applied for in the NDA or respective regulatory file. We expect the number and size of clinical trials that the regulatory authorities will require will vary depending on the product candidate, the disease or condition the product is being developed to address, the expected size of the patient population and regulations applicable to the particular product. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. Further, the approval procedure varies among countries and can involve different testing or data review. Drug development is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and delay or failure can occur at any stage in our clinical trials. Product candidates that appear promising in research or development may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development or the market for several reasons, including: • preclinical studies may show the product to be toxic or lack efficacy in animal models; • the interim or final results of clinical trials are inconclusive, negative, or not as favorable as results of previous trials, or show the product candidate to be less effective than desired; • the FDA, EMA or other regulatory authorities do not permit us to proceed with a clinical trial protocol or a clinical trial, or place a clinical trial on hold; • the data and safety monitoring committee of a clinical trial recommends that a trial be placed on hold or suspended; • our trial design, although approved, is inadequate for demonstration of safety and/or efficacy; • the FDA, EMA or other regulatory authorities determine that any study endpoints used in clinical trials are not sufficient for movement into a next stage clinical trial or for product approval; • delay in or failure to enroll or retain a sufficient number of patients, or difficulty diagnosing, identifying and recruiting suitable patients, including, for example, due to the rarity of the disease being studied; • patients die or experience adverse side effects or events for a variety of reasons, including those related to our product candidates or due to the advanced stage of their disease or medical problems, which may or may not be related to our product candidates; • inability to attract or retain personnel with appropriate expertise; • third party clinical investigators do not perform our clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol or other third-party organizations do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; • difficulties formulating the product; • inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of the product candidate which conform to design and performance specifications; • our clinical trial expenditures are constrained by our budgetary considerations; • changes in governmental regulations, policies or administrative actions; or 24 Table of Contents • regulatory inspections of our clinical trials or manufacturing facilities, which may, among other things, require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our clinical trials if investigators find us not to be in compliance with regulatory requirements. For example, a significant challenge for our clinical trials of QLT091001 for the treatment of LCA and RP has been and will likely continue to be patient recruitment due to the small population of patients with these conditions, and in particular with the specific genetic mutations causing LCA and RP we are currently investigating. The challenge in recruiting subjects from this small population is further exacerbated by the lack of public awareness of such conditions and resulting delay in (or lack of) available genetic testing and diagnosis. Further, patients may be discouraged from enrolling in our clinical trials if the trial protocol requires them to undergo extensive procedures to assess the safety and effectiveness of our products, or they may be persuaded to participate in contemporaneous trials of competitive products. Delay in, or failure of, enrolment of sufficient patients or failure of patients to continue to participate in a study may cause an increase in costs and delays or result in the failure of the trial. Our clinical trial costs will also increase if we have material delays in our clinical trials for other reasons or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than anticipated. From time to time, we engage in discussions with the FDA, EMA and other regulatory authorities to determine the regulatory requirements for our development programs. These discussions may include deliberations on number and size of clinical trials, definition of patient population, study end points and safety. The final determination on these matters by the applicable regulatory authority may be difficult to predict in particular where there are no approved precedents to establish drug development norms in a particular class of drug disease area, such as orphan drug development, and may be different, including more onerous, than we anticipated, which may delay, limit or prevent approval of our product candidates. In addition, the FDA, EMA and other regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in deciding whether any of our product candidates should be granted approval for the treatment of the particular disease or condition. Even if we believe that a clinical trial or trials has demonstrated the safety and efficacy of any of our product candidates, the results may not be satisfactory to the regulator. Preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted by regulators in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of our product candidates. Even if regulatory authorities approve our products or product candidates for the treatment of the diseases or conditions we are targeting, our products may not be marketed or commercially successful. If our products are not marketed or commercially successful, it would seriously harm our ability to generate revenue. The successful commercialization of our technology, and in particular our punctal plug drug delivery technology and synthetic retinoid, QLT091001, is crucial for our success. Successful product commercialization in the pharmaceutical industry is highly uncertain and very few product commercialization initiatives or research and development projects progress through all phases of development and/or produce a successful commercial product. Even if our products or product candidates are successfully developed, receive all necessary regulatory approvals and are commercially produced, there are number of risks and uncertainties involved in commercializing a product in this industry including the following: • negative safety or efficacy data from post-approval marketing experience or production-quality problems could cause sales of our products to decrease or a product to be recalled; • negative safety or efficacy data from clinical studies conducted by any party could cause sales of our products to decrease or a product to be recalled; • we may face significant or unforeseen difficulties or expenses in manufacturing our products, which may only become apparent when scaling-up the manufacturing to commercial scale; • we may need to obtain licenses under third-party patents which can be costly, or may not be available at all; • our intellectual property rights could be challenged by third parties or we could be found to be infringing on intellectual property rights of third parties; • small patient populations may impact distribution and marketing strategy, which may increase our distribution, marketing and per-patient or per-treatment costs; • we may be unable to obtain or maintain sufficient market share at a price high enough to justify commercialization of the product; and • effectiveness of our distribution and marketing strategy, including establishing and maintaining key relationships with distributors and suppliers. Numerous other factors may impact market acceptance and demand for our products, including but not limited to: • size of the target populations for a product and ability to identify and reach such target populations with the product; • our pricing decisions, including a decision to increase or decrease the price of a product, and the pricing decisions of our competitors; 25 Table of Contents • formulation of products in a manner in which they are marketable or subject to appropriate third-party coverage or reimbursement, or the inability to obtain appropriate third-party coverage or reimbursement for any other reason; • availability and rate of market penetration by competing products; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • perceived safety or efficacy relative to other available therapies, including efficacy data from clinical studies conducted by a party showing similar or improved treatment benefit at a lower dose or shorter duration of therapy; and • acceptance in the medical community and target patient populations to new products, treatment paradigms or standards of care. If we are unsuccessful in dealing with any of these risks, or if we are unable to successfully commercialize our product candidates for some other reason, it would seriously harm our ability to generate revenue. If we fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, it will materially harm our business. The regulatory clearance process is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. We may not be able to obtain, continue to obtain, or maintain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals on a timely basis, or at all, for Visudyne or any of our product candidates in development, and delays in receipt or failure to receive such clearances or approvals, the loss of previously received clearances or approvals, or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business and our financial condition. Visudyne and our product candidates are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation for safety, efficacy and quality by the U.S. federal government, principally the FDA, and by state and local governments and by foreign regulatory authorities in jurisdictions in which Visudyne and our product candidates are or may be sold or used in clinical development. Product labeling, manufacturing, adverse event reporting, pricing rules and restrictions, storage, distribution, advertising and promotion, and record keeping are some of the ongoing regulatory requirements to which products are subject. Our or any of our licensees’ failure to comply with applicable requirements could result in sanctions being imposed on us and/or our licensees. These sanctions include, among other things, product recalls or seizures, warning letters, fines, price rebates, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, refusals to permit products to be imported into or exported out of the U.S. or elsewhere, FDA or other regulatory agency refusal to grant approval of drugs or to allow us to enter into governmental supply contracts, withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications and enforcement actions, including injunctions and civil or criminal prosecution. Regulators can also withdraw a product’s approval under some circumstances, such as the failure to comply with regulatory requirements or unexpected safety issues. The FDA often requires post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the effects of approved products. The FDA, EMA or other regulatory authorities may condition approval of our product candidates on the completion of such post-marketing clinical studies. These post-marketing studies may suggest that a product causes undesirable side effects or may present a risk to the patient. If data produced from post-marketing studies suggest that one of our approved products may present a risk to safety, the government authorities could withdraw our product approval, suspend production or place other marketing restrictions on our products. If we are unable to sell our products because we have failed to maintain regulatory approval or have to expend significant resources having to address compliance issues, our revenue, financial conditions or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We, our contract manufacturers and distributors, all of our suppliers, as well as the suppliers of the medical lasers required for Visudyne therapy, are also subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. In addition, advertising and promotional materials relating to medical devices and drugs are, in certain instances, subject to regulation by the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission and other regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions. We, our contract manufacturers and distributors, suppliers and laser suppliers may be required to incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations in the future, and such laws or regulations may materially harm our business. Unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements, the failure of us, or any of these manufacturers, suppliers or laser suppliers to comply with such requirements or the adoption of new requirements could materially harm our business. Product development is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and we may terminate one or more of our development programs. If we terminate a development program or product candidate, or if we decide to modify or continue a development program that does not succeed, our prospects may suffer and we may incur significant expenses that could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We may determine that certain programs or product candidates do not have sufficient potential to warrant the continued allocation of resources to them. Accordingly, we may elect to terminate or modify one or more of our programs, which could include changing our clinical or business model for further development, including by attempting to extract or monetize value from the program by either selling, out-licensing or potentially partnering part or all of the program. If we terminate and seek to monetize part or all of a program in which we have invested significant resources, or we modify a program and expend further resources on it, and subsequently fail to achieve our intended goals, our prospects may suffer, as we will have expended resources on a program that may not provide a suitable return, if 26 Table of Contents any, on our investment and we may have missed the opportunity to allocate those resources to potentially more productive uses. In addition, in the event of a termination of a product candidate or program, we may incur significant expenses and costs associated with the termination of the program, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. If we do not achieve our projected development goals in the timeframes we expect and announce, marketing approval and commercialization of our product candidates may be delayed and the credibility of our management may be adversely affected and, as a result, our stock price may decline. For strategic and operational planning purposes, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development goals. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission of regulatory filings. From time to time, we publicly announce the expected timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in many cases for reasons beyond our control. If we do not meet these milestones as publicly announced, the market approval and commercialization of our product candidates may be delayed and the credibility of our management may be adversely affected and, as a result, our stock price may decline. We face intense competition, which may limit our commercial opportunities and our ability to generate revenues. The biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology. Competition in our industry occurs on many fronts, including developing and bringing new products to market before others, developing new technologies to improve existing products, developing new products to provide the same benefits as existing products at less cost, developing new products to provide benefits superior to those of existing products, and acquiring or licensing complementary or novel technologies from other pharmaceutical companies or individuals. We face intense competition against Visudyne, as well as our technology under clinical development. We may be unable to contend successfully with current or future competitors. Our competitors include major pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies, such as Genentech and Novartis, many of which are large, well-established companies with access to financial, technical and marketing resources significantly greater than ours and substantially greater experience in developing and manufacturing products, conducting preclinical and clinical testing and obtaining regulatory approvals. Our competitors may develop or acquire new or improved products to treat the same conditions that our products treat, or may make technological advances that reduce their cost of production so that they may engage in price competition through aggressive pricing policies to secure a greater market share to our detriment. Our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop or acquire and market products that are more effective, have fewer or less severe adverse side effects, or are less expensive than our products. Competitors also may develop or acquire products that make our current or future products obsolete. For example, in connection with Visudyne, we face competition primarily from Lucentis®, Avastin® and Eylea® for the treatment of wet AMD. We expect these products to continue to be competitive with Visudyne as they become available in additional markets. We are also aware of other competitive therapies for wet AMD in various stages of development. See Item 1. Business – Competition – Visudyne. In connection with our technology under clinical development, including our punctal plug drug delivery technology and synthetic retinoid, our competitors may develop or obtain patent protection for products earlier than us, design around patented technology developed by us, obtain regulatory approval for such products before us, or develop more effective or less expensive products than us. Any of these competitive products or events could have a significant negative impact on our business and financial results, including reductions in our market share, revenues and gross margins. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability and the ability of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection on our products and technologies, to preserve trade secrets, and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We have applied for and will continue to apply for patents for certain aspects of Visudyne and our product candidates and technology. We have patents and patent applications covering, among other things, compositions, pharmaceutical formulations, processes for manufacturing compounds and/or methods of treating diseases by administering therapeutic compounds. Such applications may not result in the issuance of any patents, and any patents now held or that may be issued may not provide us with a preferred position with respect to any product or technology. We may not be able to obtain patent protection on aspects of our product candidates and technology. For example, while U.S. Patent No. 7,951,841 was issued on May 31, 2011 covering various methods of use of QLT091001 in the treatment of diseases associated with an endogenous 11-cis-retinal deficiency until 2027, the molecule in QLT091001 is not eligible for composition of matter protection in the U.S. or elsewhere because it was previously known in the scientific community. Therefore, we may not be able to prevent competitors from commercializing the molecule in QLT091001 for the treatment of diseases that fall outside of the scope of our patents protecting this program. 27 Table of Contents Patents issued or licensed to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented successfully, or may have expired or expire in the near future. For example, some of the key U.S patents protecting Visudyne have expired or will expire in the near future, with the remaining unexpired patents having varying scope and duration. To the extent a preferred position is conferred by patents we own or license, upon expiry of such patents, or if such patents are successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented, our preferred position may be lost. We may not be able to develop and successfully launch more advanced replacement products and/or technologies before our patents expire. If we fail to develop and successfully launch new products prior to the expiry of patents for our products, our revenue from those products could decline significantly. Further, upon the expiry of, or successful challenge to, our patents covering a product, including Visudyne, generic competitors may introduce a generic version of that product, thereby adversely affecting our revenue and profitability. Generic competitors typically sell their products at prices much lower than those charged by the innovative pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies who have incurred substantial expenses associated with the research and development of the drug product. As a result of this possible increase in competition, we may need to lower our prices in order to maintain sales of our products or we may lose a competitive advantage and marketability of our products and technologies. In the case of Visudyne, the loss of a preferred position may have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations and financial position. Patents issued or licensed to us may be infringed by the products or processes of other parties. The cost of enforcing our patent rights against infringers, if such enforcement is required, could be significant, and the time demands could interfere with our normal operations. It is also possible that a court may find us to be infringing validly issued patents of third parties. In that event, in addition to the cost of defending the underlying suit for infringement, we may have to pay license fees and/or damages and may be enjoined from conducting certain activities. Obtaining licenses under third-party patents can be costly, and such licenses may not be available at all. Under such circumstances, we may need to materially alter our products or processes, may be unable to launch a product or may lose the right to continue to manufacture and sell a product entirely or for a period of time. Unpatented trade secrets, improvements, confidential know-how and continuing technological innovation are important to our scientific and commercial success. Although we attempt to, and will continue to attempt to, protect our proprietary information through reliance on trade secret laws and the use of confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, contract manufacturers, licensees, clinical investigators, employees and consultants and other appropriate means, these measures may not effectively prevent disclosure of or access to our proprietary information, and, in any event, others may develop independently, or obtain access to, the same or similar information. If we fail to obtain or maintain orphan drug designation for some of our product candidates, our competitive position may be harmed. Since the extent and scope of our patent protection for QLT091001 is limited, orphan drug designation is especially important for this product candidate. QLT091001 has received orphan drug designations for the treatment of LCA and RP by the EMA, and for the treatment of LCA and RP due to inherited mutations in the LRAT and RPE65 genes by the FDA. These designations provide market exclusivity in the applicable jurisdiction for ten years and seven years, respectively, if a product is approved. This market exclusivity does not, however, pertain to indications outside of the scope of our patents, nor does it prevent other types of drugs from receiving orphan designations or approvals in these same indications. Further, even after an orphan drug is approved, the FDA can subsequently approve another drug for the same condition if the FDA concludes that the new drug is clinically superior to the orphan product or a market shortage occurs. While we may seek orphan drug designations for other indications (including for the treatment of an indication due to a specific inherited genetic mutation), there is no assurance we will receive such orphan drug designations or, even if we do, that such orphan drug designations will provide us with a commercial advantage. Receipt of the consideration for the sale of QLT USA, including the Eligard product line, is largely dependent on the success of Eligard in the U.S., Canada and in Europe, which is not within our control. If we do not receive all or a material portion of the contingent consideration, our cash position will suffer. Furthermore, an unfavorable change in the fair value of our contingent consideration as a result of changes in estimates related to amount and timing of future cash flows, and the applicable discount rate may adversely impact our earnings. Under the stock purchase agreement with Tolmar for the sale of QLT USA, including its Eligard product line, we are entitled to receive future consideration payable on a quarterly basis in amounts equal to 80% of the royalties paid under the license agreement with Sanofi for the commercial marketing of Eligard in the U.S. and Canada, and the license agreement with Astellas (formerly with MediGene) for the commercial marketing of Eligard in Europe until the earlier of receiving the full $200.0 million or October 1, 2024. These payments represent and will for some time represent a substantial source of our funds. Since our receipt of contingent consideration under the stock purchase agreement depends, in large part, on the success of Eligard, our receipt of contingent consideration may also be adversely affected by, among other things: • lower than expected Eligard sales; 28 Table of Contents • product manufacturing or supply interruptions or recalls; • the development of competitive products, including generics, by other companies that compete with Eligard; • marketing or pricing actions by competitors or regulatory authorities; • changes in foreign exchange rates; • changes in the reimbursement or substitution policies of third-party payors; • changes in or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; • disputes relating to patents or other intellectual property rights; • the commercial efforts of Eligard marketing licensees; • disputes with Eligard marketing licensees; and • changes in laws or regulations that adversely affect the ability to market Eligard. Furthermore, the fair value of our contingent consideration reflected on our balance sheet is based on future Eligard sales estimated by us utilizing external market research to estimate market size, to which we apply market share and pricing assumptions based on historical sales data and expected future competition. We do not have access to the Sanofi and Astellas sales forecasts for Eligard and, therefore, our forecasts of Eligard sales may be inaccurate. As of December 31, 2011, we had received an aggregate $86.1 million of contingent consideration. While there are operational covenants in the stock purchase agreement intended to ensure that we receive the total consideration provided for under the stock purchase agreement prior to October 1, 2024, we do not have a security interest in the license agreements and there is no guarantee that we will actually receive the total consideration. If we do not ultimately receive all or a material portion of the consideration provided for under the stock purchase agreement due to the risks noted above or for any other reason, our cash position will suffer. Visudyne is currently our only commercial product. Accordingly, any decrease in sales of Visudyne would harm our business. Visudyne is our only commercial product and, accordingly, any decrease in Visudyne product sales would harm our business and cause our financial results to fall below expectations. In 2010, worldwide sales of Visudyne decreased 14.2% from the prior year, primarily due to continued competition from alternative therapeutics for AMD. While worldwide sales of Visudyne in 2011 decreased only 0.4% from 2010, we cannot provide assurance that Visudyne sales will not continue to decrease. Visudyne may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by competitive changes, including generic competition. Visudyne sales could also be adversely affected by other factors, including: • product manufacturing or supply interruptions or recalls; • the development of competitive products by other companies; • developing and maintaining effective sales and marketing capabilities; • marketing or pricing actions by our competitors or regulatory authorities; • changes in foreign exchange rates; • changes in the reimbursement by third-party payors; • changes in or withdrawal of regulatory approval for or the labelling of Visudyne; • reliance on the laser devices used in Visudyne therapy; • disputes relating to patents or other intellectual property rights; • disputes with our licensees; • shifting medical community support for treatments; and • governmental actions or changes in laws and regulations that adversely affect the ability to market Visudyne. In the field of PDT, Visudyne therapy is dependent on the continued supply of, and technical support for, complementary laser light delivery devices. If these laser light delivery devices are not available for use with Visudyne, our revenues from the sale of Visudyne will be materially adversely affected. Visudyne therapy requires a physician to deliver a dose of non-thermal light at a particular wavelength to target tissue in the eye in order to activate the photosensitizer. We currently rely on a limited number of third-parties to manufacture, sell and service the lasers required for Visudyne therapy and, therefore, we are dependent on the continued operation and success of these medical device companies, unless and until we are able to develop an effective proprietary laser light delivery device in time to replace the third-party lasers. The medical device companies supply such lasers to treating physicians directly, and we do not have a supply or distribution agreement with these companies for the supply or servicing of such devices. We cannot guarantee that these medical device companies will continue to support their laser device operations in the U.S., Europe or elsewhere, or that we could successfully develop an effective proprietary laser light delivery device or find other medical device companies to supply laser devices to physicians at acceptable prices, or at all. If these medical device companies cease to carry on business, or no longer supply and/or service lasers approved for Visudyne therapy, and we or other medical device manufacturers and medical devices approved for Visudyne therapy do not fill this void, sales of Visudyne and our revenues from the sale of Visudyne will be materially adversely affected. 29 Table of Contents Portable diode lasers that have been commercially approved for use with Visudyne are available for sale in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere, including a Carl Zeiss-Meditec diode laser that is commercially available in Japan. However, with the decline in Visudyne sales over the last few years due to the emergence of competing therapies, the commercial supply and technical support for laser light delivery devices has also significantly declined, particularly in the U.S. where third party commercial operations supporting these laser devices has declined or been discontinued altogether and commercial supply for new laser devices has been depleted. Further, the expected lifecycle of the current third-party laser light delivery devices for Visudyne therapy is approximately five to 10 years, which is heavily dependent on number of patients treated and normal maintenance and care. We believe the majority of the lasers currently on the market have reached or will in the coming years reach the end of their lifecycle and, therefore, we expect many of these lasers will need significant upgrades or will need to be replaced. If customers decide not to maintain their lasers or invest in a new laser, for example, due to the associated costs and/or due to the availability of other competitive therapies that do not require a medical device, or if demand for repair or replacement of lasers exceeds the commercial supply and maintenance available in the U.S., Europe or elsewhere, sales of Visudyne and our revenues from the sale of Visudyne will be materially adversely affected. The commercialization of our products is substantially dependent on our ability to establish and maintain effective sales and marketing capabilities. If we are unable to establish and maintain effective sales and marketing capabilities, or fail to enter into agreements with third parties to sell and market our products, our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products, including Visudyne, may be harmed. In order to commercialize our products, or any of our product candidates that may be approved for commercial sale, we must establish and maintain an effective sales and marketing infrastructure or enter into collaborations with partners able to perform these services for us. We have invested and intend to continue investing in our sales and marketing activities in the U.S. to help grow our business, including establishing an in-house sales and marketing organization for U.S. sales of Visudyne through our wholly-owned subsidiary, QLT Ophthalmics, Inc. However, we cannot assure you that our sales force will be sufficient in size, scope or effectiveness to compete successfully in the marketplace and maintain adequate sales levels in the U.S. for Visudyne or for any of our future products. We also cannot guarantee that, if we elect to use third-party providers to sell our products, whether within or outside the U.S., we will be able to enter into and maintain marketing or distribution agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, we currently have no sales and marketing capabilities in territories outside the U.S. If we are unable to successfully establish and/or expand our capabilities to sell and market our products outside the U.S. either through our own capabilities or by entering into collaborations with partners, we will have difficulty globally commercializing our products. In any of these events, our ability to generate revenues may be harmed. The marketing and sale of Visudyne in the U.S. is subject to extensive regulation and aggressive government enforcement. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of Visudyne in the U.S. are subject to extensive regulation under the U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal statutes and associated regulations. These laws and regulations limit the types of marketing claims and other communications we can make regarding marketed products. We are also subject to various U.S. federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws prohibit payments of any kind intended to induce physicians or others either to purchase or arrange for or recommend the purchase of healthcare products or services, including the selection of a particular prescription drug. These laws make certain business practices that are relatively common in other industries illegal in our industry. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent. Federal and state governments have asserted very broad interpretations of these laws against pharmaceutical manufacturers, even though these manufacturers did not directly submit claims for reimbursement to government payors. In addition, regulation is not static and regulatory authorities, including the FDA, evolve in their staff interpretations and practices and may impose more stringent requirements than currently in effect, which may adversely affect our sales and marketing efforts. Violations of the above laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions against the Company and/or our senior officers, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have in recent years been the target of lawsuits and investigations alleging violations of government regulation, including claims asserting violations of the federal False Claims Act, the federal anti-kickback statute, and other violations in connection with off-label promotion of products, pricing, and government price reporting. The interpretation of these laws as applied to particular sales and marketing practices continues to evolve, and it is possible that our sales and marketing practices might be challenged. Further, although we expect to take measures to prevent potential challenges, we cannot guarantee that such measures will protect us from future challenges, lawsuits or investigations. Even if such challenges are without merit, they could cause adverse publicity, divert management attention and be costly to respond to, and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, including impact on our stock price. 30 Table of Contents Our commercial success depends in part on the success of third parties to market our products, including Visudyne. Our strategy for the development and commercialization of our products, including our current product Visudyne, has included entering into marketing arrangements with third parties, and we may in the future implement a similar strategy with respect to any future products. However, the amount and timing of resources to be devoted to these activities generally are not under our control. For example, under the Amended PDT Agreement, Novartis is responsible for marketing and sales of Visudyne outside of the U.S. A significant portion of our revenue depends on the efforts of Novartis to market and sell Visudyne outside of the U.S., and our growth is dependent in part on the success of Novartis in performing its responsibilities. Further, Novartis is not prevented from commercializing non-PDT products that could be competitive with Visudyne. Novartis entered into a license arrangement with Genentech in which Novartis has been granted a license to the rights outside of the U.S. to Lucentis, a product that has been approved for the treatment of wet AMD, and is a competing product to Visudyne. To the extent such third parties do not perform adequately under our agreement with them, or do not comply with applicable laws or regulations in performing their obligations, the development and commercialization of our products, including Visudyne, may be delayed, may become more costly to us or may be terminated in the applicable territory, and may require us to expend significant amounts of time and money to find new collaborators and structure alternative arrangements. Our revenues depend on coverage and reimbursement from third party payors and pricing, and if third party payors reduce or refuse coverage or reimbursement or if prices are reduced, the use and sales of our products will suffer, we may not increase our market share, and our revenues and profitability will suffer. The continuing efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare may negatively affect the sale of Visudyne and our product candidates. Our ability to commercialize Visudyne and our product candidates successfully will depend, in part, on the timeliness of and the extent to which adequate coverage and reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments is obtained from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations in the U.S. and foreign markets. Product sales, attempts to gain market share or introductory pricing programs of our competitors could require us to lower our prices, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We may be unable to set or maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. We may also be subject to price reductions as a result of government pricing rules and regulations that may impact both our financial condition and future revenues. Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved therapeutic products or newly approved product indications. In both the U.S. and some non-U.S. jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In the U.S., new legislation and regulations have been and likely will continue to be proposed and adopted at the federal and state levels. For example, effective January 2004, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act, directs the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) to contract with procurement organizations, who would purchase physician-administered drugs from manufacturers, provide them to physicians and also bill the Medicare program. The competitive acquisition program was postponed for 2009 and has not yet been resumed, but could result in reductions to future amounts that will be paid for physician-administered drugs. In March 2010, the President of the United States signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “PPACA”), which makes significant changes to the way healthcare is financed by both federal and state governmental and private insurers and directly impacts the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. The PPACA extends health insurance to more individuals and includes, among other things, annual, non-deductible fees that went into effect in 2011 for entities that manufacture or import certain prescription drugs and biologics. This fee is calculated based upon each organization’s percentage share of total branded prescription drug sales to U.S. government programs (such as Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans’ Affairs and Public Health Service discount programs). In addition, the PPACA changes the computations used to determine Medicaid rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program by redefining the average manufacturer’s price (“AMP”), effective October 1, 2010, and by using 23.1% instead of 15% of AMP for most branded drugs and 13% instead of 11% of AMP for generic drugs, effective January 1, 2010. The PPACA also extends the discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program to additional providers, including critical access hospitals, rural referral centers and sole community hospitals. To further facilitate the government’s efforts to coordinate and develop comparative clinical effectiveness research, the PPACA establishes a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee and identify priorities in such research. The manner in which the comparative research results would be used by third-party payors is uncertain. A number of state governors have strenuously opposed certain of the PPACA’s provisions, and initiated lawsuits challenging its constitutionality. These challenges are pending final adjudication in several jurisdictions, including the United States Supreme Court. Congress has also proposed a number of legislative initiatives, including possible repeal of the PPACA. At this time, it remains unclear whether there will be any changes made to the PPACA. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the PPACA was enacted. Most recently, on August 2, 2011, the President signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, creates the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to Congress. The Joint 31 Table of Contents Select Committee did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation’s automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013. While we have made certain estimates with regard to determining how, and the extent to which, the PPACA fees and rebates will impact our business, until the PPACA or any future legislation is fully implemented, their full impact on our business cannot be determined. The reimbursement environment for Visudyne may continue to change in the future and become more challenging due to, among other reasons, new policies of the current U.S. administration. The result may be a reduction in the pricing of or demand for Visudyne. To the extent that private insurers or managed care programs follow governmental coverage and payment developments, the adverse effects of changes to governmental programs may be magnified. At this time, a few states have also enacted health care reform legislation, and the federal government and individual state governments continue to consider health care reform policies and legislation. We cannot predict how future measures would impact Visudyne or our future products. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by measures to reduce Medicare drug coverage, or by any other future healthcare reform measures that would reduce amounts that other governmental or private insurers will pay for drugs. Our applications or re-applications for coverage and reimbursement for any of our products may not result in approvals and our current reimbursement approvals for Visudyne and our other products may be reduced or reversed in whole or in part. If we were to have coverage or reimbursement reduced or reversed, the market for the affected product may be materially impaired and could materially harm our business and future revenues from that product. For example, while we believe that the results seen in the Visudyne in occult (“VIO”) study did not contradict results seen in prior studies, because the VIO study failed to meet its primary endpoint, there is a risk that reimbursement for Visudyne in the occult form of wet AMD could be re-evaluated in the U.S. and elsewhere by the applicable governmental authorities. In April 2007, after reviewing the results in the VIO study, the Committee for Human Medicinal Products (“CHMP”) recommended to the European Commission that the indication of the use of Visudyne in the treatment of occult CNV, secondary to AMD be removed in Europe. In June 2007, the European Commission adopted the recommendation by CHMP to remove the indication of Visudyne in the treatment of occult CNV in the EU. As a result, reimbursement for Visudyne in the occult form of wet AMD has ceased in most European countries. If our supply of Visudyne does not match demand, our business and future revenue could be materially adversely impacted. A significant decrease or delay in the supply of raw materials, intermediates or finished product could hinder our ability to timely distribute Visudyne, which could materially harm our business and adversely impact our future revenue. If we are unable to manufacture and supply Visudyne to satisfy our customers’ or licensees’ orders, we may lose those orders and our customers or licensees may cancel other orders and seek damages or exercise other remedies permitted under their agreement with us. In addition, customers or licensees may decide to stock and sell competing products, which in turn could cause a loss of our market share and materially adversely affect our revenues. Numerous factors could cause interruptions in the supply of our finished products, including damage or destruction to the storage facilities containing our product inventory and related raw materials and intermediates, shortages in raw material required by our manufacturers, changes in our sources for raw materials or manufacturing, the failure of our manufacturers to comply with FDA and foreign regulatory authorities requirements for the manufacture of our product or our product specifications, our failure to timely locate and obtain regulatory approval for additional or replacement manufacturers as needed, and conditions affecting the cost and availability of raw materials and manufacturing processes. If the supply of our products is inadequate to meet demand or interrupted, our sales and market share could decrease. We maintain levels of inventory based upon various factors including our forecasted demand for products, anticipated commercial launch of new products, minimum contractual requirements with third party suppliers and as we consider appropriate for supply chain management and security. Some of our inventory has a limited “shelf life.” If our inventory exceeds forecasted demand, or if we are unable to use our inventory or use it during its shelf life due to delay in or failure to launch a product, withdrawal of a product from the market, impact of generic competition, or delays in, or termination of agreements for, the marketing and sale of our products by third parties, our inventory may be written-down, possibly materially, in market value. For example, in order to mitigate certain risks in our supply chain, we have committed to purchasing additional intermediate material used in the production of Visudyne from one of our suppliers. Our commitment to purchase the intermediate material may result in our inventory exceeding forecasted demand, which may result in a material write-down of our inventory. Further, we may not be able to resell our inventory at a price equal to its full value or recovery of our costs, or at all. If we are unable to sell all of our inventory or sell our inventory at an appropriate price, our business may be materially harmed and our revenues adversely impacted. At December 31, 2011, we carried $13.1 million of Visudyne raw materials, intermediates and finished goods. We rely on third-party manufacturers and specialty wholesale distributors and other service providers for the manufacture and distribution of Visudyne, and currently expect to rely on third-party manufacturers and distributors for the manufacture and distribution of our future commercial products. Any difficulties with such third parties could delay future revenues from our sales of Visudyne or our future commercial products. 32 Table of Contents We rely on several third parties in the U.S., Europe and Japan to manufacture Visudyne, and we currently intend to rely on third parties to manufacture our punctal plug drug delivery system and synthetic retinoid product candidates for use in later stage clinical trials and, if commercialized, to manufacture our punctal plug drug delivery system and synthetic retinoid products in commercial quantities. If we are unable to maintain agreements on favorable terms with any of our contract manufacturers or our contract manufacturers fail to supply required materials or comply with regulatory requirements, or if we fail to timely locate and obtain regulatory approval for additional or replacement manufacturers as needed, it could impair or prevent our ability to deliver Visudyne or our future commercial products on a timely basis, or at all, which in turn would materially and adversely harm our business and financial results. We are responsible for the distribution, marketing and sale of Visudyne in the U.S.; however, we rely on third parties to distribute Visudyne in the U.S. to end-user customers. We may also rely on third parties to distribute our future commercial products to end-user customers. If we are unable to continue to secure and maintain the necessary agreements with third parties to accomplish this in a timely manner on terms favorable to us or at all, supply of Visudyne in the U.S. or supply of our future commercial products may be adversely affected. In addition, if any such third party service providers fail to meet their respective contractual commitments, we may not be able to supply or continue to supply commercial quantities of Visudyne or any of our future commercial products. Further, any loss of a manufacturer or distributor or any difficulties that could arise in the manufacturing or distribution process, including any disputes with third party service providers, could significantly affect our inventories and supply of Visudyne or our future commercial products available for sale. Furthermore, our ability to commercialize Visudyne or any of our future commercial products depends, in large part, on our ability to have such products manufactured at a competitive cost and in accordance with FDA and other foreign regulatory requirements, including FDA cGMPs, and our product specifications, which could significantly adversely affect our product inventories and our ability to have product available for commercial sale. We do not have full control over our contract manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Our contract manufacturers’ manufacturing and quality procedures may not achieve or maintain compliance with applicable FDA and other foreign regulatory standards or product specifications, and, even if they do, we may be unable to produce or continue to produce commercial quantities of Visudyne or our future commercial products at an acceptable cost or margin. If current manufacturing processes are modified, or the source or location of our product supply is changed (voluntarily or involuntarily), regulatory authorities will require us to demonstrate that the material produced from the modified or new process or facility is equivalent to the material used in the clinical trials or products previously approved. Any such modifications to the manufacturing process or supply may not achieve or maintain compliance with the applicable regulatory requirements or our product specifications. In many cases, prior approval by regulatory authorities may be required before any changes can be instituted. If our contract manufacturers produce one or more product batches that do not conform to FDA or other regulatory requirements, or our product specifications, or if they introduce changes to their manufacturing processes, our manufacturing expenses may increase materially, our product inventories may be reduced to unacceptable levels or entirely for an uncertain and potentially significant amount of time, we may lose market share, and/or our ability to meet demand for Visudyne or our future commercial products may be materially and adversely impacted, which may cause us to lose potential revenue and become subject to claims from our licensees. We depend on key management, scientific and technical personnel, and if we do not attract and retain these key personnel, we may not be able to manage our growth, and our business could be adversely affected. Our future success depends in significant part on the contributions of our executive officers and scientific and technical personnel. The loss of the services of one or more key individuals may significantly delay or prevent achievement of our scientific or business objectives. Competition for qualified and experienced personnel in the life sciences field is generally intense, and we rely heavily on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in order to successfully implement our scientific and business objectives. While our headquarters are located in Vancouver, B.C., Canada, historically, many of our executive and life science personnel candidates reside outside of Canada. As a result, we can face significant challenges recruiting executives and life science personnel. In the event we seek to recruit key executives or key scientific, technical or commercial operations personnel, we may not be able to successfully attract or retain skilled and qualified personnel on acceptable terms, or at all, and even if our recruitment efforts are successful, we may incur significant relocation costs. The failure to attract or retain key executives and personnel could impact our operations, including failure to achieve targets and advance our clinical development programs. The future growth of our business may depend in part on our ability to successfully identify, acquire on favorable terms, and assimilate technologies, products or businesses. From time to time, we may engage in negotiations to expand our operations and market presence by future product, technology or other acquisitions, in-licensing and business combinations, joint ventures or other strategic alliances with other companies. We may not be successful in identifying, initiating or completing such negotiations. Competition for attractive product acquisition or alliance targets can be intense, and we may not succeed in completing such transactions on terms that are acceptable to us. Even if we are successful in these negotiations, these transactions create risks, including: • difficulties in and costs associated with assimilating the operations, technologies, personnel and products of an acquired business; 33 Table of Contents • assumption of known or unknown liabilities or other unanticipated events or circumstances; • acquired / in-licensed technology may not be successfully developed and commercialized; • the potential disruption to our ongoing business; and • the potential negative impact on our earnings and cash position. Any of these risks could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability for acquired businesses or technology or to realize other anticipated benefits of the transaction. We have in the past and may in the future acquire one or more technologies, products or products in development that we believe will complement our business. However, we may not ultimately be able to effectively capitalize on the acquisition of such technologies, products or products in development. For example, in December 2009, we acquired QLT091568, a prodrug of a beta adrenergic antagonist, from Othera Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Othera Holding, Inc., but following formulation and development work in 2010 and consideration of our research and development priorities, we discontinued development of QLT091568. We may not be able to effectively integrate acquired technologies, products or products in development into our business and any such acquisition could bring additional risks, exposures and challenges to our company. We may become involved in legal proceedings from time to time and if there is an adverse outcome in our litigation or other legal actions, our business may be harmed. We may become involved in legal actions in the ordinary course of our business. Litigation may result in verdicts against us, including excessive verdicts, which may include a judgment with a significant monetary award, as occurred in 2008 in the litigation with MEEI, including the possibility of punitive damages, a judgment that certain of our patent or other intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable and, as occurred in 2006 in the litigation with TAP Pharmaceuticals in the U.S., the risk that an injunction could be issued preventing the manufacture, marketing and sale of our products that are the subject of the litigation. In addition, we may become involved in disputes or legal actions as a result of our strategic corporate restructuring undertaken in 2008 and 2009. Under our strategic restructuring, we divested Eligard (as part of the sale of QLT USA), Aczone® and Atrigel and sold the land and building comprising our Canadian headquarters. We also restructured our agreement with Novartis under the Amended PDT Agreement pursuant to which, among other things, we obtained exclusive U.S. rights to the Visudyne patents to sell and market Visudyne in the U.S. Transactions such as these may result in disputes regarding representations and warranties, indemnities, future payments or other matters, and we may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of these transactions. If disputes are resolved unfavorably, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Additionally, any litigation, whether or not successful, may damage our reputation. Furthermore, we will have to incur substantial expense in defending these lawsuits and the time demands of such lawsuits could divert management’s attention from ongoing business concerns and interfere with our normal operations. In addition, the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of human pharmaceutical products entail significant inherent risks of allegations of product liability. Our use of such products in clinical trials and our sale of Visudyne or our product candidates and related medical devices expose us to liability claims allegedly resulting from the use of these products or devices. These risks exist even with respect to those products or devices that are approved for commercial sale by the FDA or applicable foreign regulatory authorities and manufactured in facilities licensed and regulated by those regulatory authorities. Our current insurance may not provide coverage or adequate coverage against potential claims, losses or damages resulting from such litigation. We also cannot be certain that our current coverage will continue to be available in the future on reasonable terms, if at all. If we were found liable for any claims in excess of our coverage or outside of our coverage, the cost and expense of such liability could materially harm our business and financial condition. Our use of hazardous materials exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities, and we may incur substantial additional costs to comply with environmental laws. Our research, development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous chemicals, primarily flammable solvents, corrosives, and toxins. The biologic materials include microbiological cultures, animal tissue and serum samples. Some experimental and clinical materials include human source tissue or fluid samples. We are subject to federal, state/provincial and local government regulation in the use, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous and radioactive materials. If any of these materials resulted in contamination or injury, or if we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be subject to fines and other liabilities, and any such liabilities could exceed our resources. Our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses related to our use of any such materials, and we cannot be certain that our current insurance coverage will continue to be available on reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, any new regulation or change to an existing regulation could require us to implement costly capital or operating improvements for which we have not budgeted. 34 Table of Contents Our provision for income taxes and effective income tax rate may vary significantly and may adversely affect our results of operations and cash resources. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. Various internal and external factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our future provision for income taxes, income taxes receivable, and our effective income tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in tax laws, regulations and/or rates, results of audits by tax authorities, changing interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations, changes in estimates of prior years’ items, the impact of transactions we complete, future levels of research and development spending, changes in the overall mix of income among the different jurisdictions in which we operate, and changes in overall levels of income before taxes. Furthermore, new accounting pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements (such as those described in Note 3 - Significant Accounting Policies in Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements) can have a material impact on our effective income tax rate. We file income tax returns and pay income taxes in jurisdictions where we believe we are subject to tax. In jurisdictions in which we do not believe we are subject to tax and therefore do not file income tax returns, we can provide no certainty that tax authorities in those jurisdictions will not subject one or more tax years (since our inception) to examination. Tax examinations are often complex as tax authorities may disagree with the treatment of items reported by us, the result of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred losses from continuing operations for the last five years and expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We generated net losses for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. Although we earned net income for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we incurred a loss from continuing operations in both of those years. Further, we incurred a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2007. Our accumulated deficit at December 31, 2011 was approximately $528.1 million. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in the future due to increased clinical development costs primarily related to our punctal plug drug delivery system and synthetic retinoid product candidates. As a result, we expect to continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future and these losses may increase from current levels. We are uncertain when or if we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability. If we are unable to achieve or sustain profitability in the future, our stock price may decline. Our operating results may fluctuate, which may cause our financial results to be below expectations and the market price of our securities to decline. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons, some of which are beyond our control. A revenue shortfall or increase in operating expenses could arise from any number of factors, such as: • higher than expected operating expenses as a result of increased costs associated with the research and development or commercialization of our product candidates; • lower than expected revenues from sales of Visudyne; • changes in pricing, pricing strategies or reimbursement levels for Visudyne; • seasonal fluctuations, particularly in the third quarter due to decreased demand for Visudyne in the summer months; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • costs of operating an internal sales and marketing team and infrastructure for the distribution, sale and marketing of Visudyne in the U.S.; and • increased operating expenses as a result of product, technology or other acquisitions or business combinations. Even a relatively small revenue shortfall may cause a period’s results to be below our expectations or projections, which in turn may cause the market price of our securities to drop significantly and the value of your investment to decline. The market price of our common shares is extremely volatile and the value of an investment in our common shares could decline. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies, including QLT, have been and are likely to continue to be extremely volatile. As a result, investors in companies such as ours often buy at high prices only to see the price drop substantially a short time later, resulting in an extreme drop in value in the holdings of these investors. Trading prices of the securities of many biotechnology companies, including us, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations which have, at times, been unrelated to the operating performance of the companies whose securities were affected. Some of the factors that may cause volatility in the price of our securities include: • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • results of our research and development programs; • litigation commenced against us; 35 Table of Contents • regulatory developments or delays concerning our products; • quarterly variations in our financial results; • business and product market cycles; • fluctuations in customer requirements; • the availability and utilization of manufacturing capacity and our ability to continue to supply Visudyne; • the timing and amounts of contingent consideration or royalties paid to us by third parties; and • issues with the safety or effectiveness of our products. The price of our common shares may also be adversely affected by the estimates and projections of the investment community, general economic and market conditions, and the cost of operations in our product markets. Due to general economic conditions and the recent worldwide economic downturn, extreme price and volume fluctuations occur in the stock market from time to time that can particularly affect the prices of biotechnology companies. These extreme fluctuations are sometimes unrelated or disproportionate to the actual performance of the affected companies. We may need additional capital in the future, and our prospects for obtaining it are uncertain. Although our divestment of non-core assets in 2008 and 2009 generated significant cash, we have not yet received, and may not ultimately ever receive, all of the contingent consideration payable to us for the sale of QLT USA and, going forward, our business may not generate the cash necessary to fund our operations and anticipated growth. The amount required to fund our operating expenses will depend on many factors, including the status of competitive products, the success of our research and development programs, the extent and success of any collaborative research arrangements, and the results of product, technology or other acquisitions or business combinations. We could seek additional funds in the future from a combination of sources, including product licensing, joint development, sale of assets and other financing arrangements. In addition, we may issue debt or equity securities if we determine that additional cash resources could be obtained under favorable conditions or if future development funding requirements cannot be satisfied with available cash resources. The availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit and the availability of credit to our industry, the volume of trading activities, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. As a result of any or all of these factors, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favourable terms, or at all. We believe that we were a passive foreign investment company for the taxable year ended December 31, 2011, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders and may deter certain U.S. investors from purchasing our stock, which could have an adverse impact on our stock price. Based on the price of our common shares and the composition of our assets, we believe that we were a “passive foreign investment company” (“PFIC”) for United States federal income tax purposes for the taxable year ended December 31, 2011. We believe that we were also a PFIC for the taxable years ended December 31, 2008 through 2010, and we may be a PFIC in future years. A non-U.S. corporation generally will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes in any taxable year in which, after applying relevant look-through rules with respect to the income and assets of subsidiaries, either 75% or more of its gross income is “passive income” or 50% or more of the average value of its assets consists of assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. If we were a PFIC for any taxable year during a U.S. Holder’s holding period for our common shares, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. Holder, as that term is defined in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Certain Canadian and U.S. Federal Income Tax Information for U.S. Residents—U.S. Federal Income Tax Information—U.S. Holders. In addition, our PFIC status may deter certain U.S. investors from purchasing our stock, which could have an adverse impact on our stock price. If we fail to manage our exposure to global financial, securities market and foreign exchange risk successfully, our operating results and financial statements could be materially impacted. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maintaining liquidity and maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. To achieve this objective, our cash equivalents are high credit quality, liquid, money market instruments. If the carrying value of our investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we will be required to write down the value of our investments, which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, the performance of certain securities in our investment portfolio may correlate with the credit condition of governments, government agencies, financial institutions and corporate issuers. If the credit environment were to become unstable, as it did in the second half of 2008 and throughout much of 2009, we might incur significant realized, unrealized or impairment losses associated with these investments. 36 Table of Contents Prior to January 1, 2010, the Canadian dollar was QLT Inc.’s functional currency, while the U.S. dollar was our reporting currency. As a result, U.S. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities held by us were revalued and gave rise to foreign currency gains (or losses). During the first quarter of 2010, the functional currency of QLT Inc. was changed from the Canadian dollar to the U.S. dollar as a result of the change in our business related to the receipt of exclusive U.S. rights to the Visudyne patents from Novartis. As a result, since 2010, to the extent that foreign currency-denominated (i.e., non-USD) monetary assets do not equal the amount of our foreign currency-denominated monetary liabilities, foreign currency gains or losses could arise and materially impact our financial statements. Any of these events could have a significant negative impact on our business and financial results, including reductions in our market share and gross margins. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 