Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT ROCKFORD’S OPERATING RESULTS, BUSINESS PROSPECTS AND STOCK PRICE Before you buy or sell Rockford stock, you should be aware that there are risks, including those described below and others Rockford has not anticipated or discussed. You should consider carefully these and other risk factors, together with all of the other information included in Rockford’s filings with the SEC and Rockford’s periodic press releases, before you decide to buy or sell shares of Rockford’s common stock. As you consider these risk factors, Rockford also calls your attention to Rockford’s statements about Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors before Part I of this Annual Report. Rockford’s products may not satisfy shifting consumer demand or compete successfully with competitors’ products. Rockford’s business is based primarily on the demand for aftermarket and OEM mobile audio products and on Rockford’s ability to deliver products that provide powerful, high quality sound. If Rockford fails to introduce new products, misinterprets consumer preferences or fails to respond to changes in the marketplace, consumer demand for its products could decrease and its brands’ images could suffer. In addition, Rockford’s competitors may introduce superior designs or business strategies, undermining Rockford’s distinctive image and its products’ desirability. If any of these events occur, they could cause Rockford’s sales to decline. Rockford relies upon debt financing for a substantial part of its working capital; defaults on its debt or the unavailability of additional financing could make it impossible to carry out Rockford’s business as currently structured. As at December 31, 2008, Rockford had $7.5 million in outstanding debt under its senior credit facility and $7.5 million of convertible notes outstanding. Rockford repurchased $2.5 million of its convertible notes in January 2009. Rockford agreed in April 2009 to amend the remaining $5.0 million of convertible notes, which were scheduled to be repaid on June 10, 2009, so that Rockford is required to pay $2.5 million of the remaining outstanding notes during 2009 and the balance of $2.5 million during 2010. Based on current cash-flow forecasts Rockford anticipates that it will have available borrowings under its credit facility to complete the repayment of the remaining notes and to satisfy its working capital needs. Rockford is dependent on its senior credit facility and other financing given the working capital requirements of its business. The availability of these facilities could be impacted by adverse economic events, such as the credit crisis suffered at the end of 2008 and early 2009, or by poor operational and financial performance at Rockford. If Rockford’s financial performance fails to improve, or if other developments make financing unavailable on an economic basis, available borrowings on Rockford’s credit facility might not be adequate. If available borrowings under Rockford’s credit facility are not adequate, Rockford may need to secure additional borrowings or equity to fund the required repayments on the notes and its working capital requirements. Such borrowings or equity might not be available on acceptable terms. In that case, Rockford might not be able to continue its operations as they are currently structured and might have to consider changes that could include reductions in employee compensation and benefits, evaluation of our status as a public company in order to reduce costs, reductions in working capital needs, changes in our distribution strategies, and potential exit strategies. There is no assurance we could implement these changes given the current economic environment. A restructuring would likely have a significant negative impact on operations, financial performance, and stock price. 10 Table of Contents Aftermarket Mobile Audio Sales May Continue to Decline, Reducing the Potential Market Rockford is Seeking to Address Aftermarket mobile audio sales have been soft over an extended period for many reasons, including the perceived difficulty of replacing newer OEM audio systems, the somewhat improved performance of OEM mobile audio systems and the availability of alternative audio products such as the iPod. Consumer spending for aftermarket mobile audio products is volatile and is affected by economic conditions such as: • General business conditions; • Employment levels, especially among Rockford’s core consumers (who tend to be less experienced workers and are particularly subject to layoff if employment levels decline); • Consumer confidence in future economic conditions; • Energy prices; and • Interest and tax rates. The mobile audio aftermarket in the U.S. has suffered from a decline in overall sales since 2000, which has made it difficult for Rockford and for competitors to maintain sales. The efforts to maintain sales have eroded margins and led to greater competition to place inventory in dealers. The market for mobile audio products continues to be unpredictable and Rockford is not able to predict when or whether the decline in mobile aftermarket sales will end. A decline in discretionary spending likely would reduce Rockford’s sales. Mobile audio sales are highly discretionary and a recession in the general economy or a general decline in consumer spending is likely to significantly reduce Rockford’s sales. The economic meltdown at the end of the 3rd quarter of 2008 and during the 4th quarter substantially reduced Rockford’s sales. Rockford may lose market share and its brand image may erode as Rockford manages the distribution channels for its mobile audio products. Rockford distributes Rockford’s products both through specialty distribution channels (including specialty dealers who sell only mobile audio products and audio/video retailers) and through national retailers, such as Best Buy. Rockford is seeking to increase distribution of Rockford’s products through each of these distribution channels. Rockford also sells its products or licenses its brand and technologies as standard or optional OEM systems in Nissan and Mitsubishi vehicle models and is working to expand its OEM sales. The distribution and marketing needs of these channels are sometimes in conflict so that, for example, Rockford’s efforts to increase “big box” sales of its products may reduce the perceived value of its products to specialty retailers. Rockford’s distribution channels and strategies create significant risks that: • Rockford may alienate its specialty dealer base. Some specialty dealers or audio/video retailers may react to Rockford’s “big box” and OEM strategies by reducing their purchases or even replacing Rockford’s products with competing products; and • Rockford’s brand image may erode. Selling in large national retail stores and OEM markets may erode Rockford’s brand image, which could decrease Rockford’s product prices and profit margins. Rockford’s inability to manage Rockford’s distribution channels in a way that mitigates these risks may reduce its sales and profitability. Any decrease in demand for Rockford amplifiers, subwoofers or speakers could significantly decrease sales. A significant portion of Rockford’s revenue is for sales of Rockford’s amplifier, subwoofer and speaker products. These product lines collectively accounted for approximately 76.0% of Rockford’s sales in 2008, 78.4% 11 Table of Contents of Rockford’s sales in 2007 and 80.7% of Rockford’s sales in 2006. If sales of these product types decline, results of operations could be adversely affected. The loss of Best Buy, Nissan, or Mitsubishi as a customer or significant reductions in their purchases of Rockford’s products would reduce sales. Best Buy, Nissan and Mitsubishi are significant customers, with Best Buy accounting for 22.1%, 19.0%, and 16.9% of Rockford’s sales in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively, Nissan accounting for 14.6%, 7.5%, and 3.9% of Rockford sales in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively, and Mitsubishi accounting for 2.4%, 6.5%, and 7.1% of Rockford sales in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. Rockford anticipates that Best Buy, Nissan and Mitsubishi will continue to account for a significant portion of Rockford’s sales for the foreseeable future, but none is obligated to any long-term purchases. Each has considerable discretion to reduce, change or terminate purchases of Rockford’s products. If any of them significantly reduce or terminate their purchases of Rockford products Rockford’s sales and operations are likely to decline. Rockford may lose sales and market share if it is unable to compete successfully against current and future competition, including products offered by aftermarket suppliers and by auto manufacturers. Competition could result in reduced margins on Rockford’s products and loss of market share. Rockford’s primary markets are very competitive, with only limited barriers to entry and large numbers of competitors. Rockford’s principal mobile audio competitors include Alpine, Boston Acoustics, Infinity, JL Audio, Kenwood, Kicker, Monster Cable, MTX, Pioneer, Sony and Stinger. Rockford also competes with automobile manufacturers who continue to integrate OEM audio systems with other electronic features in their vehicles and somewhat improve their sound quality. These changes increase the perceived difficulty of installing Rockford’s aftermarket products, reduce consumers’ perception of the need to improve their factory audio systems and have reduced demand for aftermarket mobile audio products. Rockford believes that the changes auto manufacturers have made in recent years have significantly reduced overall demand for aftermarket mobile audio systems. If Rockford does not continue to develop, introduce and achieve market acceptance of new and enhanced products, sales may decrease. To remain competitive, Rockford believes that it must regularly introduce new products, improve the performance of existing products and limit increases in prices or even reduce prices. Rockford’s inability to do so in a timely manner could reduce sales and profitability. Rockford may experience difficulties that delay or prevent the development, introduction or market acceptance of new or enhanced products. Rockford’s move to outsourced manufacturing of its products may also delay the development of new products because of the added complexity of product development for outsourced products. Furthermore, Rockford may not detect and correct defects in products before it ships them to customers. This may result in loss of sales or delays in market acceptance. Even after introduction, new or enhanced products may not satisfy consumer preferences and product failures may cause consumers to reject the new products. As a result, these products may not achieve market acceptance. In addition, competitors’ new products and product enhancements may cause consumers to defer or forego purchases of Rockford’s products. Rockford’s OEM sales and royalty revenue depends on demand for the vehicles in which Rockford’s OEM systems are offered. A decline in demand for those automobiles is likely to reduce OEM sales and royalty revenue. Rockford OEM systems are currently offered in select Nissan and Mitsubishi vehicles and will be introduced in select vehicles of a third auto manufacturer later in 2009. In Nissan’s line, Rockford systems are offered in many of Nissan’s truck-based products, which have suffered declining sales because of increased gasoline prices and reduced consumer demand for large vehicles. The decline in demand for these vehicles, and for vehicles in general, 12 Table of Contents has lead to a decline in Rockford’s OEM sales and royalty revenue. Further declines in demand could lead to additional declines in Rockford’s OEM sales and royalty revenue. Seasonality of mobile audio sales causes Rockford’s quarterly sales to fluctuate and may affect the trading price of its stock. Rockford’s sales are generally greater during the first and second quarters of each calendar year and lower during the third and fourth quarters, with its lowest sales typically occurring during the fourth quarter. As a result, after the announcement of Rockford’s results of operations for the third and fourth quarters, Rockford’s stock price may be lower than at other times of the year. Rockford’s financial results may fluctuate significantly, making financial forecasting difficult and making Rockford’s stock price volatile. Rockford’s results of operations are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. In some quarters, operating results may fall below expectations. Rockford’s operating results are difficult to forecast for many reasons, some of which are outside of Rockford’s control, including: • The level of product, price and dealer competition; • Size and timing of product orders and shipments, particularly by higher volume customers such as Best Buy, Nissan and Mitsubishi; • Weather conditions, which affect consumers’ willingness to install products; • Capacity and supply constraints or difficulties; and • Timing of Rockford’s marketing programs and those of its competitors. As a result, investors should not rely on historical results as an indication of Rockford’s future performance. In addition, some of Rockford’s expenses are fixed and cannot be reduced in the short term. Accordingly, if sales do not meet expectations, the results of operations are likely to be negatively and disproportionately affected. Rockford’s results for the 4th quarter of 2008 illustrate this affect: unexpected reductions in sales because of the credit crisis suffered at the end of 2008 caused a disproportionate increase in Rockford’s net loss. In this event, Rockford’s stock price may fall dramatically. If Rockford fails to manage its inventory effectively, Rockford could incur additional costs or lose sales. Rockford customers have many brands to choose from when they decide to order products. If Rockford cannot deliver products quickly and reliably, customers will order from a competitor. Rockford must stock enough inventory to fill orders promptly, which increases Rockford’s financing requirements and the risk of inventory obsolescence. Competition has forced Rockford to regularly introduce new and enhanced products and to seek higher quality at lower prices by sourcing more product overseas. These steps require Rockford to carry larger inventories in relation to sales than if its supply chain was shorter. There is a significant risk that Rockford’s inventory could become obsolete or that changes in demand could cause Rockford to hold excess inventory. Excess inventory has a significant impact on Rockford’s working capital requirements, increasing the amount Rockford must draw on its credit facilities and Rockford’s financing risks. Rockford’s product supplies and international operations may be harmed by factors including political instability, currency exchange rates and changes in regulations that govern international transactions. The risks inherent in international trade may interfere with Rockford’s supply of products, reduce Rockford’s international sales and harm Rockford’s business and the businesses of its distributors and suppliers. These risks include: • Changes in tariff regulations; • Political instability, war, terrorism and other political risks; 13 Table of Contents • Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • Establishing and maintaining relationships with local distributors and dealers; • Lengthy shipping times and accounts receivable payment cycles; • Import and export licensing requirements; • Compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including unexpected changes in taxation and regulatory requirements; • Greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property than in the U.S.; and • Difficulty in staffing and managing geographically dispersed operations. The current economic environment appears to have increased the risk of protectionist actions and populist trade measures throughout the global trading system. The risks described above, and other risks associated with international trade, may increase the relative price of Rockford’s products compared to those manufactured in other countries, may substantially reduce the supply of products available to Rockford and increase their price, or may increase the absolute price of Rockford’s products in some or all of the countries where Rockford sells its products. Any of these results could reduce Rockford’s sales and increase Rockford’s costs. Loss of an international distributor may disrupt Rockford’s sales. International customers accounted for 20.0% of Rockford’s sales in 2008. For sales outside the U.S. and Canada Rockford relies on distributors, each of whom is responsible for one or more countries. Each distributor purchases and resells Rockford’s products in its territories. When Rockford has disputes with a distributor, or changes its relationship with a distributor, it may disrupt the market for Rockford’s products in that country and reduce sales. If Rockford changes a relationship with a distributor, Rockford may repurchase that distributor’s inventory, which would also reduce Rockford’s sales. Currency fluctuations may reduce the profitability of Rockford’s foreign sales. In some cases, Rockford sells to Canadian dealers and distributors in Canadian dollars. In other international markets, although Rockford prices its products in dollars, currency fluctuations may make Rockford’s products more expensive in local currency terms. Rockford does not trade in derivatives or other financial instruments to reduce currency risks. In some instances this will subject Rockford’s earnings to fluctuations because Rockford is not protected against substantial currency fluctuations and its distributors may reduce product purchases because of currency fluctuations. Currency fluctuations may increase the cost of Rockford’s products. Rockford now sources all of its products from outside the United States. Most of these products are sourced in the Far East, principally in China and Southeast Asia. Although most of Rockford’s purchases are denominated in dollars, an extended decline in the value of the dollar may affect the terms and prices on which Rockford is able to purchase from its foreign suppliers and may, therefore, increase Rockford’s costs. If Rockford’s supplies of products are interrupted, it may be unable to deliver its products to its customers. Rockford has transitioned all of its products to outsourced manufacturing, generally in Asia. The supply process does not provide a backlog of finished goods to satisfy short lead-time orders, to compensate for potential halts in supply or to replace products that are not available due to supplier issues or that do not conform to quality standards. Rockford also does not have long-term price commitments from its suppliers and cost increases may reduce Rockford’s margins or require Rockford to raise its prices to protect margins. Rockford cannot be certain that it could locate, within reasonable time frames, alternative sources of products at similar prices and quality levels. This failure could result in increased costs, delays in its supply chain, an inability to fill purchase orders on a timely basis 14 Table of Contents and a decrease in product availability at the retail level. This could cause Rockford to lose sales and damage Rockford’s customer relationships. Rockford depends on a few suppliers for a large portion of its products. Interruptions in their ability or willingness to deliver products would reduce sales and damage customer relationships. Rockford relied on Edge Global Holdings, Kontron Manufacturing, and Sound Factor for approximately 31.5%, 10.4%, and 17.5% respectively, of its inventory purchases during 2008. Rockford believes that each of its suppliers is financially capable, but in general many contract manufacturers are under financial strain because of the global recession and Rockford cannot be certain that all of its suppliers will remain financially stable. If any significant supplier refuses or is unable to supply products to Rockford, it would require substantial time to identify an alternative supplier and could create a product shortage. Such a shortage would reduce sales and damage customer relationships. Rockford may be unable to retain and attract key employees, which could impair Rockford’s business. Rockford operates in highly competitive employment markets and cannot guarantee its continued success in retaining and attracting the employees it needs to develop, produce and market its products and manage its operations. Rockford’s business strategy and operations depend, to a large extent, on Rockford’s senior management team. Rockford does not have written employment contracts with any of its key employees. If key members of Rockford’s management team are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, Rockford’s ability to develop, introduce and sell Rockford’s products could be negatively impacted. If Rockford is unable to enforce or defend its ownership and use of intellectual property, Rockford’s business may decline. Rockford’s success may depend, in part, on Rockford’s intellectual property. Rockford seeks to protect its intellectual property rights, but its actions may not adequately protect the rights covered by patents, patent applications, trademarks and other proprietary rights. Prosecution of Rockford’s claims could be time consuming and costly. In addition, the intellectual property laws of some foreign countries do not protect Rockford’s proprietary rights as do the laws of the U.S. Despite Rockford’s efforts to protect its proprietary information, third parties may obtain, disclose or use proprietary information without authorization, which could adversely affect Rockford’s business. From time to time, third parties have alleged that Rockford infringes their proprietary rights. These claims or similar future claims could subject Rockford to significant liability for damages, result in the invalidation of its proprietary rights, limit its ability to use infringing intellectual property or force Rockford to license third-party technology rather than dispute the merits of an infringement claim. Even if Rockford prevails, any associated litigation could be time consuming and expensive and could result in the diversion of Rockford’s time and resources. Rockford could suffer from internal control deficiencies. Rockford is a small company and is dependent upon a small number of officers and staff. In light of the reduction in its business, it has reduced the size of its staff so that there are fewer individuals available to fill in when one member of that staff resigns or is disabled. If it suffers turnover of key employees or is otherwise unable to maintain its internal controls, Rockford may not be able to comply with its reporting obligations and its inability could reduce the market price of its stock. Rockford’s executive officers and directors retain substantial control of Rockford, which may limit the liquidity and market price of its common stock. Rockford’s officers and directors and their affiliates collectively held approximately 49.2% of Rockford’s outstanding shares at March 17, 2009. These shareholders, if they act together, are able as a practical matter to control the outcome of matters submitted for shareholder action, including the election of a majority of Rockford’s board of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. Consequently, these shareholders 15 Table of Contents effectively control Rockford’s management and affairs, which may limit the liquidity of its shares, discourage acquisition bids for Rockford and limit the price some investors are willing to pay for Rockford’s shares. Virtually all of Rockford’s shares are available for resale without significant restrictions. Their sale or potential sale may reduce Rockford’s stock price. Virtually all of Rockford’s outstanding shares are available for resale under applicable securities laws. The market price of Rockford’s common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares in the market or the perception that those sales could occur. Rockford’s anti-takeover provisions could affect the value of Rockford’s stock. Rockford’s articles of incorporation and bylaws and Arizona law contain provisions that could discourage potential acquirers. For example, Rockford’s board of directors may issue additional shares of common stock to an investor who supports the incumbent directors in order to make a takeover more difficult. This could deprive Rockford’s shareholders of opportunities to sell its stock at above-market prices typical in many acquisitions. 