ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS WE ARE ENTERING NEW MARKETS AND IF WE FAIL TO ACCURATELY PREDICT THE GROWTH OF THESE NEW MARKETS, WE MAY SUFFER REDUCED EARNINGS. Historically, our sales were concentrated in the specialty components markets, as well as remote control devices for presentation projectors. However, we have devoted significant resources to the development of products and the support of marketing and sales efforts in new markets, such as television remotes and the e-transactions market. We expect to continue to identify and develop products for new markets. These markets change rapidly and we cannot assure you that they will grow or that we will be accurately able to forecast market demand in time to respond appropriately. Our investment of resources in these markets may either be insufficient to meet actual demand or result in expenses that are excessive in light of actual sales volumes. Failure to predict growth and demand accurately in new markets may cause us to suffer substantial losses or reduced earnings. OUR OEM REMOTE CONTROLS BUSINESS IS FOCUSED ON CONSUMER MARKETS THAT ARE INTENSELY PRICE COMPETITIVE. IF WE CANNOT GENERATE VOLUME AND RELATED MANUFACTURING EFFICIENCIES REQUIRED TO COMPETE IN THESE MARKETS, OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS WILL BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Historically, our OEM Remote Controls business was focused on selling remote devices in the presentation projector market. As a specialty market, this sector generated relatively low sales volumes with correspondingly high margins. However the presentation projector market has become more consumer-oriented and price competition has increased. We have shifted our OEM Remote Controls business toward sales to manufacturers of advanced viewing devices which is also very consumer-oriented and price competitive but which offers the potential for higher volumes. If we cannot increase production and sales volume, or if we otherwise fail to achieve production efficiencies, our results of operations and financial position will be adversely affected. FAILURE TO MAINTAIN, DEVELOP AND EXPAND OUR OEM RELATIONSHIPS COULD CAUSE DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS TO DECREASE. Sales to OEMs constituted 30% of our total sales in 2005. If we fail to maintain, develop and expand our relationships with significant OEMs, or if those OEMs are not successful in their marketing and sales efforts, demand for our products may decrease. For example, our OEM Remote Controls products are sold to OEMs and consist primarily of remote devices that are packaged with advanced viewing devices, televisions or presentation systems. If our OEM customers experience a significant reduction in demand for advanced viewing devices, televisions or presentation systems it will significantly decrease demand for our remote devices. Our ability to generate increased revenues also depends significantly on the extent to which our OEM customers develop, promote and sell products that incorporate our technology and products. If our OEM customers do not successfully develop and market products that incorporate our products, sales of our products to our OEM customers would be adversely affected. The extent to which our 12 OEM customers develop, promote and sell our products is based on a number of factors that are largely beyond our ability to control. THE LOSS OF ANY SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMER OR ANY CANCELLATION, REDUCTION OR DELAY OF A LARGE PURCHASE BY A SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMER COULD REDUCE OUR REVENUE AND REQUIRE US TO WRITE-DOWN INVENTORY. In 2005, approximately 52% of our total sales were to our OEM Remote Controls customers and most of these sales were to OEM customers. With the advent of our MICRONAV family of sensors, we expect that our reliance on OEM sales will increase. The loss of any key OEM customers, or a significant reduction in sales to those customers, could significantly reduce our revenue below anticipated levels. From time to time, we expect to lose other significant revenue streams and will be required constantly to seek new opportunities with new and existing customers. Because our expense levels are based on our expectations as to future revenue and are, to a large extent, fixed in the short term, a substantial reduction or delay in sales of our products to an OEM customer, the unexpected loss of any significant OEM or other customer, or unexpected returns from customers, could harm our business. FAILURE TO INCREASE MARKET AWARENESS AND ACCEPTANCE OF E-TRANSACTIONS AND OUR E-TRANSACTION PRODUCTS MAY CAUSE OUR REVENUES IN THIS MARKET TO FALL SHORT OF OUR EXPECTATIONS. The prospects for our e-transactions business depend in part on the acceptance by our target markets of electronic signatures as a replacement for traditional pen and ink signatures. The market for e-transactions is new and emerging and we cannot be certain that it will continue to develop or grow or that businesses will elect to adopt our products rather than continuing to rely on traditional pen and ink signatures. Businesses that have invested substantial resources in traditional infrastructures may be reluctant to adopt an electronic approach to replace their existing systems. Concerns about privacy and fraud may cause businesses not to adopt e-transactions or our e-transaction products. We expect that we will need to continue to pursue intensive marketing and sales efforts to educate prospective customers about the benefits of e-transactions and our e-transaction products. If market awareness and acceptance of e-transactions do not occur, our revenues and profitability in this market will fall short of our expectations. SALES OF SIMPLE SIGNATURE CAPTURE DEVICES ARE GROWING RAPIDLY AND THE MANUFACTURERS OF THESE DEVICES COULD BROADEN THEIR PRODUCT RANGE TO INCLUDE PRODUCTS THAT COMPETE WITH OUR EPAD. Simple signature capture devices have recently become a common sight at retail checkout counters and a number of companies manufacture and sell these devices. While our EPAD product is targeted at a more demanding market, signature capture device manufacturers could elect to upgrade their existing products in an effort to compete in our markets. Such competition could reduce margins or otherwise adversely affect our prospects in our e-transactions market. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO KEEP PACE WITH RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE AND GAIN MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF NEW PRODUCTS, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY. Technology, both in our markets and in our customers' markets, is undergoing rapid change. In order to maintain our leadership position in our existing markets and to emerge as a leader in new markets, we will have to maintain a leadership position in the technologies supporting those markets. Doing so will require, among other things, the following: o we must accurately predict the evolving needs of our customers and develop, in a timely 13 manner, the technology required to support those needs; o we must provide products that are not only technologically sophisticated but are also available at a price within market tolerances and competitive with comparable products; o we must establish and effectively defend our ownership of the intellectual property supporting our products; and o we must enter into relationships with other companies that have developed complementary technology on which our products also depend. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve any of these objectives. IF WE FAIL TO MANAGE OUR GROWTH SUCCESSFULLY, OUR OPERATIONS COULD BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED AND OUR GROWTH COULD BE IMPAIRED. The ability to operate our business in rapidly evolving markets requires an effective planning and management process. We expect that growth in our business will place a significant strain on our personnel, management systems, infrastructure and other resources. Our ability to manage any potential future growth effectively will require us to attract, train, motivate and manage new employees, to integrate new employees into our overall operations and to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and procedures. If we are unable to implement adequate controls or integrate new employees into our business in an efficient and timely manner, our operations could be adversely affected and our growth could be impaired. MOST OF OUR OEM AND MAJOR RETAIL CUSTOMERS ORDER FROM US ON A "JUST IN TIME" BASIS, WHICH REQUIRES US TO ESTIMATE DEMAND FOR PARTICULAR PRODUCTS. The agreements or understandings that we reach with most of our OEM customers specify various terms such as product design and price, but do not constitute firm purchase orders for a specific number of products or components. Our OEM and major retail customers typically place firm purchase orders on a "just in time" basis and expect products or components to be shipped to them as soon as they can be made. Accordingly, our backlog of firm orders is typically quite small in relation to the volume of our sales. In anticipation of customer demand, we are often required to purchase raw materials and components based on estimates of customer demand derived from non-binding information furnished by the customer. If customer purchase orders differ substantially from our estimates, we may accumulate excess inventory that has to be written off. If we underestimate demand, we may be unable to meet customer needs, which could harm our relationship with the customer. WE RELY ON THIRD PARTIES FOR THE MATERIALS THAT WE USE TO MANUFACTURE OUR PRODUCTS AND A SHORTAGE OF SUPPLY COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR REVENUES, OPERATING RESULTS AND CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS. We rely on third-party suppliers for the raw material components of our products. We cannot assure you that our suppliers will be able to maintain an adequate supply of these raw materials to enable us to fulfill all of our customers' orders on a timely basis. A failure to obtain an adequate supply of the materials for our products could increase our costs of goods sold, cause us to fail to meet delivery commitments and cause our customers to purchase from our competitors, which could adversely affect our operating results and customer relationships. In some situations, we rely on a single supplier for raw material components of our products. Any disruption in these supplier 14 relationships could prevent us from maintaining an adequate supply of materials and could adversely affect our results of operation and financial position. DISRUPTIONS IN OUR MANUFACTURING FACILITIES OR ARRANGEMENTS COULD CAUSE OUR REVENUES AND OPERATING RESULTS TO DECLINE. We manufacture all of our FSR sensors at our Camarillo, California facility. This facility is vulnerable to damage from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss and similar events. It could also be subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism. Our insurance may not cover such events and, if the event is covered, our insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for any losses that may occur. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problem at our manufacturing facility could result in delayed shipment of products, missed delivery deadlines and harm to our reputation, which may cause our revenues and operating results to decline. All of our non-FSR product manufacturing is currently done by third parties in China identified and managed through our Hong Kong subsidiary. We rely on our subsidiary to select and contract with contract manufacturers with suitable manufacturing facilities and appropriately trained employees. An interruption in our current manufacturing arrangements could adversely affect our revenues, operating results and customer relationships. PERFORMANCE, RELIABILITY OR QUALITY PROBLEMS WITH OUR PRODUCTS MAY CAUSE OUR CUSTOMERS TO REDUCE OR CANCEL ORDERS WHICH WOULD HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS. We regularly introduce new products with new technologies or manufacturing processes. Our products have in the past contained, and may in the future contain, errors or defects that may be detected at any point in the life of the product. Detection of such errors could result in delays in shipping and sales during the period required to correct such errors. Defects may also result in product returns, loss of sales and cancelled orders, delays in market acceptance, injury to our reputation, injury to customer relationships and increased warranty costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. INTERNATIONAL SALES AND MANUFACTURING RISKS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. Our revenue from international sales accounted for approximately 55%, 60% and 51% of net sales for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We believe that international sales will represent a substantial portion of our sales for the foreseeable future. Our non-FSR manufacturing is currently performed by third parties in China. Our international operations involve a number of risks, including: o import-export license requirements, tariffs, taxes and other trade barriers; o difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; o ability to secure credit and funding; o difficulty in maintaining an effective system of internal controls at our foreign manufacturing facility; o foreign collection problems; o reduced protection of intellectual property rights; o international unrest and terrorism; 15 o political and economic instability; and o transportation risks. Any of the above factors could adversely affect our operating results. OUR OPERATING RESULTS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY FLUCTUATIONS IN THE VALUE OF FOREIGN CURRENCIES. International sales made through our Japanese subsidiary are generally denominated in yen. A weak yen would materially affect total revenue and could result in a decrease in dollar revenue even though sales remained constant or increased. We also contract for most of our large-volume, non-technical manufacturing in China. Although we contract in U.S. dollars, a weakening of the dollar could cause existing contracts to be uneconomic to the vendor and therefore require a renegotiation. Over the past two years, the valuations of many foreign currencies have fluctuated significantly relative to the U.S. dollar. The Japanese yen, in particular, has fluctuated in value due in part to the economic problems experienced by Asian countries and the recent devaluation of the U.S. dollar. Although we at times engage in currency hedging transactions in order to protect ourselves from risks of Japanese yen currency fluctuations, we cannot assure you that these activities will protect us from such risks. OUR MARKETS ARE INTENSELY COMPETITIVE AND MANY OF OUR POTENTIAL COMPETITORS HAVE RESOURCES THAT WE LACK. Our markets are competitive and we expect competition in our newer markets to increase. Our competitors include companies with similar products or technologies, companies that sell complementary products to our target markets and our OEM customers themselves, who could choose to manufacture products that they currently buy from us. Our competitors and potential competitors may have established business relationships that may afford them a competitive advantage or may create technologies that are superior to ours or that set a new industry standard that will define the successful product for that market. If any of our competitors establish a close working relationship with our customers, they may obtain advance knowledge of our customers' technology choices or may be afforded an opportunity to work in partnership to develop compatible technologies and may therefore achieve a competitive advantage. We may be unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. OUR PRODUCTS ARE OFTEN CUSTOMER-SPECIFIC, AND FROM TIME TO TIME WE MAY NEED TO WRITE OFF EXCESS OR OBSOLETE INVENTORY. A substantial percentage of our intuitive interface devices and components are customer-specific and cannot be easily recycled for sale to other customers. However, we must have sufficient quantities of our products available to satisfy our customers' demands. If a particular customer fails to order as expected or cancels or substantially delays an order, we may have excess inventory that we may be required to hold for long periods of time or that may eventually become obsolete. In these situations, we may be required to write off or write down inventory, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 16 EARLY IMPLEMENTATION OF THE RESTRICTION ON HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES ACT OF 2002 ("ROHS") OR THE ADOPTION OF SIMILAR RESTRICTIONS IN MARKETS OUTSIDE OF EUROPE MAY REQUIRE US TO MAKE ADDITIONAL WRITE-DOWNS OF OUR INVENTORY. When it goes into effect, the ROHS will limit the use of certain restricted raw materials in production of consumer goods that are sold in Europe. Many of these restricted materials are found in our products and in the components we have in our inventory. Although the ROHS is not effective until late 2006, many of our OEM customers are implementing the ROHS restrictions early and are requiring our products to be ROHS-compliant. We previously determined that we would not be able to adequately reduce our inventory of non-compliant materials and, as a result, we recorded an expense of $900,000 to create a reserve for obsolescence. While we currently believe our reserve is adequate, we may need to reassess it if other OEM customers begin demanding ROHS-compliant products prior to the effective date of ROHS or if other markets adopt similar restrictions. OUR ABILITY TO OPERATE EFFECTIVELY COULD BE IMPAIRED IF WE WERE TO LOSE THE SERVICES OF KEY PERSONNEL, OR IF WE ARE UNABLE TO RECRUIT QUALIFIED MANAGERS AND KEY PERSONNEL IN THE FUTURE. Our success is substantially dependent on the continued availability of our key management and technical personnel, including the employees listed in the management table appearing later in this Annual Report. Several of our key management personnel have been with us throughout most of our history and have substantial experience with our business and technology. If one or more of our key management personnel leaves Interlink and we are unable to find a replacement with the combination of skills and attributes necessary to execute our business plan, it may have an adverse impact on our business. Our success will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified professional, technical, production, managerial and marketing personnel, both domestically and internationally. IF OUR PRODUCTS DO NOT SUPPORT EVOLVING INDUSTRY STANDARDS, THEY MAY NOT ACHIEVE OR MAINTAIN MARKET ACCEPTANCE AND OUR REVENUES MAY DECLINE. Our wireless communication products must communicate using whatever communication protocol is chosen by the customer. Supporting a particular communication protocol requires specific technical expertise and we expect that we will be required to establish and maintain such expertise with respect to each commonly used communication protocol. New communication protocols are constantly under development and we may fail to acquire the necessary experience to support a popular new protocol or to respond to changes in an existing protocol. In our e-transactions business, our customers will expect that our products will enable them to comply with applicable requirements relating to electronic signatures, such as the Electronic Signatures in Global Commerce Act and procedures adopted by the National Notary Association. If our products do not support these requirements, sales of our e-transactions products would be adversely affected. IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OR IF WE INFRINGE ON THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OF OTHERS, OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. We consider our intellectual property to be a key element of our ability to compete in our chosen markets. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets and proprietary software to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that patents will be issued from any of our pending applications or that any claims allowed from existing or pending patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. We also cannot assure you that any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights granted will provide 17 proprietary protection. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, regardless of the final outcome of the litigation. We are not currently engaged in any patent infringement suits but we have been threatened with one such suit in recent years. Despite our efforts to maintain and safeguard our proprietary rights, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in doing so or that our competitors will not independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies. If any of the holders of these patents assert claims that we are infringing them, we could be forced to incur substantial litigation expenses or to pay substantial royalties. In addition, if we were found to be infringing on someone else's patent, we could be required to pay substantial damages, pay royalties in the future and/or be enjoined from infringing in the future. WE RELY ON OTHERS FOR ASPECTS OF OUR TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT. Our in-house research and development expertise is focused on our sensor and communication technologies. We do not have broadly based expertise in software development, chip design or other critical technological aspects of a complete product. We rely on other companies with whom we may contract or enter into joint development agreements to provide these aspects of our product technologies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to contract or otherwise arrange for these services in the future. We also cannot assure you that a developer with whom we contract for technology will not use or permit others to use similar technology in competition with us. WE ARE A PUBLIC COMPANY AND ARE THEREFORE REQUIRED TO INCUR COSTS AND TO DISCLOSE INFORMATION THAT PRIVATE COMPANIES ARE NOT REQUIRED TO INCUR OR DISCLOSE. As a public company, we are required to comply with complex and costly accounting and disclosure requirements that do not apply to foreign companies that are not public in the United States, private companies or to subsidiaries or divisions of very large companies for whom the results of the subsidiary or division are not material. The costs that we are required to incur have recently increased dramatically, especially in connection with our reporting obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and these expenses may continue to be incurred at historically unprecedented levels for the foreseeable future. These costs impact our profitability and therefore constitute a competitive disadvantage vis-a-vis much of our competition. These requirements may also prevent our management from focusing on other areas of our business. In addition, our public status requires us to disclose publicly information that can afford a competitor a competitive advantage. If we are unable to maintain costs associated with our public company status within reasonable parameters, or if we are required to disclose information that our competitors can use to compete with us, our ability to remain competitive in our markets could be adversely affected. BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS OR PARTNERING ARRANGEMENTS MAY DISRUPT OUR BUSINESS, DILUTE SHAREHOLDER VALUE AND DISTRACT MANAGEMENT'S ATTENTION. As part of our business strategy, we may consider acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses with services, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our business. Such acquisitions or investments involve numerous risks, including: o unanticipated costs and liabilities; 18 o difficulty of integrating the operations, products and personnel of the acquired business; o difficulties in managing the financial and strategic position of acquired or developed products and technologies; o difficulties in maintaining customer relationships; o diversion of management's attention; o inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; o impairment of relationships with acquired employees and customers occurring as a result of integration of the acquired business; and o accounting results that are unrelated to the performance of either business. Acquisitions also frequently result in recording of goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to potential impairments in the future. Additionally, if we finance acquisitions by using convertible debt or stock, our existing stockholders may be diluted which could affect the market price of our stock. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated additional benefit to our business, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. WE HAVE IDENTIFIED MATERIAL WEAKNESSES IN OUR INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING AND HAVE BEEN REQUIRED TO RESTATE OUR HISTORICAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. In our Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2004, we reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Additional material weaknesses were identified in 2005. As a result of these material weaknesses, we were required to restate several of our historical financial statements. We have taken significant measures to improve our financial reporting process but, despite these measures, continued to have material weaknesses as of December 31, 2005. As a result, management and our auditors have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was ineffective as of December 31, 2005. These matters are more fully described elsewhere in this report under the captions "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Controls and Procedures--Internal Control Over Financial Reporting." Any continuing material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could result in errors in our financial statements. Such errors could cause our internal planning and assessment of our business to be based on false information and could cause our published financial statements to fail to fairly present our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our effort to eliminate all material control weaknesses. Any continuing material weaknesses could erode market confidence in our company, could cause the price of our stock to be based on false or misleading information and could result in litigation based on any such false or misleading information. WE ARE FACING LITIGATION BASED ON OUR RESTATEMENTS OF HISTORICAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, WHICH MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR CASH RESERVES AND MAY IMPAIR OUR ABILITY TO ACHIEVE OUR BUSINESS OBJECTIVES. Certain former Interlink stockholders have filed a class action lawsuit claiming damages under various securities laws based on our restatement of historical financial statements. Other stockholders have brought a derivative action against our Chief Executive Officer, our former Chief Financial 19 Officer and our directors, alleging mismanagement. These actions will require a vigorous defense and could result in a settlement or adverse award that is not covered by insurance or that exceeds applicable insurance limits. The time and expense required to defend these claims may also affect our cash resources and ability to pursue our strategy. There is also no assurance that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 