ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have incurred net losses and negative cash flow from operations for the past five fiscal years and expect to experience future quarterly losses. Continued losses and negative cash flow would reduce our internal resources, limit our growth options, require additional cash infusions and could ultimately place our continued viability in question. We have incurred losses and negative cash flow from operations in each of the previous five fiscal years. These losses resulted from various factors, including declining gross profit margins in our recently divested OEM Remotes business segment, increases in operating costs, increased compliance and regulatory costs, inventory reserve adjustments and internal investigation costs, some of which will continue to affect future results. As part of an overall strategy to deemphasize our declining margin businesses and focus our efforts on higher margin emerging markets, we sold our OEM Remotes and Branded Products business segments in August of 2007. While we expect the higher margins in our retained businesses to result in positive cash flow by the end of fiscal 2008, we support a constant level of fixed general and administrative expenses with a revenue base that has been reduced by half, which is likely to result in continued net losses and may affect our ability to generate positive cash flow. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm contained in our fiscal 2006 audited financial statements included a going concern qualification. The going concern qualification has been eliminated in our 2007 fiscal year audited financial statements. Despite our projections and best efforts, we cannot assure you that we will achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flow. If we do not achieve profitability and positive cash flow, our financial resources will be adversely affected and we may be forced to curtail or discontinue certain operations, which could result in the allocation of fixed costs over an even smaller revenue base or affect our future competitiveness. If we were to require additional financing, such financing could prove dilutive to the interests of existing investors, or we may be required to divest additional business assets. Our former President and Chief Executive Officer retired on January 4, 2008. Our ability to execute our business strategy could be impaired if we are unable to find and retain a new Chief Executive Officer with necessary and appropriate skills in a timely manner. The loss of the services of other key personnel, or if we are unable to recruit other qualified managers and key personnel in the future, may also impair our ability to operate effectively. E. Michael Thoben, III, our former President and Chief Executive Officer, retired on January 4, 2008. Mr. Thoben had been with Interlink for the past seventeen years and has substantial experience with our business and technology. John Buckett, Chairman of the Board, has been appointed our interim Chief Executive Officer until a permanent replacement is found. Our Board of Directors is conducting a search for a replacement. If we are unable to find a permanent replacement for Mr. Thoben with the combination of skills and industry experience necessary to execute our business plan and manage our company, our business may suffer. We also may incur significant costs in identifying, hiring, training and retaining Mr. Thoben’s permanent replacement. Our success also will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified professional, technical, production, managerial and marketing personnel, both domestically and internationally. The loss of other key employees during this transition period would be particularly difficult and could cause significant delays in the implementation of our business plan and an adverse effect on our operations. Business divestitures, acquisitions and partnering arrangements may disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and distract management’s attention. 6 Table of Contents In August 2007 we completed the sale of our OEM Remotes and Branded Products business segments. As part of our business strategy to focus on higher margin emerging markets, we may consider additional divestitures or acquisitions or discontinue other aspects of our business. Such strategic decisions involve numerous risks, including: • unanticipated costs and liabilities; • difficulty of separating or combining the operations, products and personnel of the divested or acquired business; • difficulties in maintaining customer relationships and managing the strategic position of products and technologies; • diversion of management’s attention; • inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; • accounting results that are unrelated to the performance of either business; • amortization of fixed costs over a smaller revenue base; • goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to potential impairments in the future; • dilution of the ownership of existing shareholders, to the extent that acquisitions are financed with convertible debt or stock; and • other changes that consume resources and management’s attention. We may fail to replace divested operations with new business segments that contribute to our financial health and strategic objectives. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions, investments or divestitures, we may not achieve the anticipated additional benefit to our business and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate, which could damage the viability of our ongoing operations. We are a public company and are therefore required to incur costs and to disclose information that private companies are not required to incur or disclose. As a public company, we are required to comply with complex and costly accounting and disclosure requirements that do not apply to foreign companies that are not public in the United States, private companies or to subsidiaries or divisions of very large companies for whom the results of the subsidiary or division are not material. These costs impact our profitability and therefore constitute a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis much of our competition, especially in light of the recent divestiture of two of our four business segments, which has caused these costs to increase substantially as a percentage of our revenues. These requirements also consume substantial management time that could otherwise be focused on other areas of our business. In addition, our public status requires us to disclose publicly information that can afford a competitor an advantage. If we are unable to maintain costs associated with our public company status within reasonable parameters, or if we are required to disclose information that our competitors can use to compete with us, our ability to remain competitive in our markets could be adversely affected. A limited number of investors own a majority of our stock and, working together, could control us. The majority of our stock is owned by institutions managed by a small number of fund managers. To our best knowledge, neither these stockholders nor their fund managers have any agreement or understanding under which they have agreed to act together with respect to the voting of our stock. However, they have expressed common views with respect to various matters relating to our management and governance and these views have influenced related decisions of our Board of Directors. If they were to act together as a group, these fund managers would have the ability to control various aspects of our business and governance, including the replacement of our Board of Directors. Accordingly, other investors may not have the practical ability to oppose management and/or governance decisions that have the support of our institutional investors. We are facing litigation based on our restatements of historical financial statements, which may have a material adverse impact on our cash reserves and may impair our ability to achieve our business objectives. Certain former Interlink stockholders have filed a class action lawsuit claiming damages under various federal securities laws based on our restatement of historical financial statements. Other stockholders have brought a derivative action against our former Chief Executive Officer and our former Chief Financial Officer that alleges, among other things, securities-related violations of the California Corporations Code. These actions will require a vigorous defense and could result in a settlement or adverse award that is not covered by insurance or that exceeds applicable insurance limits. The time and expense required to defend these claims may also affect our ability to pursue our business strategy. There is also no assurance that additional lawsuits will not be filed or that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 7 Table of Contents We are emphasizing new markets and if we fail to accurately predict the growth of these new markets, we may suffer reduced earnings. Historically, the largest contributor to our consolidated sales was our OEM Remotes business segment. In late 2005, we deemphasized and reorganized segments of this business, and in August 2007 we sold this business, together with our Branded Products business. We have devoted significant resources to the development of products and the support of marketing and sales efforts in new markets, such as the MicroNav™ family of file navigation products in our Specialty Components business, and the biometric input pads in our eTransactions business. As we transition to becoming a company with two, rather than four, business units and focus on our remaining businesses, we expect to continue to identify and develop products for new markets. These markets change rapidly and may not all prove to be attractive. We cannot assure you that they will grow or that we will be able to accurately forecast market demand in time to respond appropriately. Our investment of resources in these markets may either be insufficient to meet actual demand or result in expenses that are excessive in light of actual sales volumes. Failure to accurately predict successful new products and markets and the growth and demand in new markets may cause us to suffer substantial losses or reduced earnings. Failure to increase market awareness and acceptance of eTransactions and our eTransaction products may cause our revenues in this market to fall short of our expectations. We are focusing considerable resources on developing our eTransactions market. The prospects for growth of our eTransactions business depend in part on the acceptance by our target markets of electronic signatures as a replacement for traditional pen and ink signatures. The market for eTransactions is new and emerging and we cannot be certain that it will continue to develop or grow in a timely manner or that businesses will elect to adopt our products rather than competitive products or to continue to rely on traditional pen and ink signatures. Businesses that have invested substantial resources in traditional infrastructures may be reluctant to adopt an electronic approach to replace their existing systems. Concerns about privacy and fraud may cause businesses not to adopt eTransactions or our eTransaction products. We expect that we will need to continue to pursue intensive marketing and sales efforts to educate prospective customers about the benefits of eTransactions and our eTransaction products. If market awareness and acceptance of eTransactions do not occur, our revenues and profitability in this market will fall short of our expectations. If we are unable to keep pace with rapid technological developments, we may not be able to compete effectively. Technology in our target markets is undergoing rapid change. In order to maintain our position in our existing markets and succeed in new markets, we will have to develop and support innovative technologies. Doing so will require, among other things, that we accomplish the following: • accurately predict customer needs and develop, in a timely manner, the technology required to support those needs; • provide products that are not only technologically sophisticated and well supported but are also available at a price within market tolerances and competitive with comparable products; • establish and effectively defend our ownership of the intellectual property supporting our products; and • enter into relationships with other companies that have developed complementary technology on which our products also depend. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve any of these objectives. If our products do not support evolving industry standards, they may not achieve or maintain market acceptance and our revenues may decline. Our eTransactions business customers expect our products to enable them to comply with applicable requirements relating to electronic signatures, such as the Electronic Signatures in Global Commerce Act and procedures adopted by the National Notary Association. If our eTransactions products do not support these requirements, they will not be competitive and will not be adopted by the market. We rely on others for aspects of our technology development. Our in-house research and development expertise is focused on our sensor and communication technologies. We do not have broadly based expertise in software development, chip design or other critical technological aspects of a complete product. We rely on other companies with whom we may contract or enter into joint development agreements to provide these aspects of our product 8 Table of Contents technologies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to contract or otherwise arrange for these services in the future or on a consistent basis. We also cannot assure you that a developer with whom we contract for technology will not use or permit others to use similar technology in competition with us. If we are not able to protect our intellectual property or if we infringe on the intellectual property of others, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We consider our intellectual property to be a key element of our ability to compete in our chosen markets. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets and proprietary software to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that patents will be issued from any of our pending applications or that any claims allowed from existing or pending patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. We also cannot assure you that any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights granted will provide proprietary protection. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, regardless of the final outcome of the litigation. We are not currently engaged in any patent infringement suits but we have been threatened with one such suit in recent years. Despite our efforts to maintain and safeguard our proprietary rights, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in doing so or that our competitors will not independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies. If any of the holders of these patents assert claims that we are infringing on them, we could be forced to incur substantial litigation expenses, and if we were found to have infringed a third-party patent, we could be required to pay substantial damages, pay royalties in the future or be enjoined from infringing in the future. Sales of simple signature capture devices are growing rapidly and the manufacturers of these devices could broaden their product range to include products that compete with our ePad. Simple signature capture devices, distinct from our more sophisticated ePad products, have recently become a common sight at retail checkout counters and a number of companies manufacture and sell these devices. While our ePad product is targeted at a more advanced market, signature capture device manufacturers could elect to expand their existing product lines in an effort to compete in our markets. Such competition could reduce margins or otherwise adversely affect our prospects in our eTransactions market. Our markets are intensely competitive and many of our potential competitors have resources that we lack. Our markets are competitive and we expect competition to increase. Our competitors include companies with similar products or technologies and companies that sell complementary products to our target markets. Our competitors and potential competitors may have established business relationships that afford them a competitive advantage or may create technologies that are superior to ours or that set a new industry standard that will define the successful product for that market. If any of our competitors establish a close working relationship with our customers, they may obtain advance knowledge of our customers’ technology choices or may be afforded an opportunity to work in partnership to develop compatible technologies and may therefore achieve a competitive advantage. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors. We identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in prior fiscal periods and have been required to restate our historical financial statements. In our Annual Reports for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006, we reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. As a result of the errors caused by these material weaknesses, we were required to restate our historical financial statements for the fiscal years 2001 through 2004, as well as for the first and second quarters of fiscal 2005. We have taken significant measures to improve our financial reporting process and as of December 31, 2007, we had identified no material weaknesses that remained to be remediated. Despite our substantial efforts to ensure the integrity of our financial reporting process, we cannot guarantee that we will not identify additional weaknesses as we continue to work with the new systems that we have implemented over the past year and a half. Any continuing material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could result in errors in our financial statements. Such errors could cause our internal planning and assessment of our business to be based on false information and could cause our published financial statements to fail to fairly present our financial condition and results of operations, which could erode market confidence in our company, cause the price of our stock to be based on false or misleading information and result in litigation based on such false or misleading information. 9 Table of Contents We rely on third parties for the materials that we use to manufacture our products and a shortage of supply could adversely affect our revenues, operating results and customer relationships. We rely on third-party suppliers for the raw material components of our products. We cannot assure you that our suppliers will be able to maintain an adequate supply of these raw materials to enable us to fulfill all of our customers’ orders on a timely basis. A failure to obtain an adequate supply of the materials for our products could increase our costs of goods sold, cause us to fail to meet delivery commitments and cause our customers to purchase from our competitors, which could adversely affect our operating results and customer relationships. In some situations, we rely on a single supplier for raw material components of our products. Any disruption in these supplier relationships could prevent us from maintaining an adequate supply of materials and could adversely affect our results of operation and financial position. Disruptions in our manufacturing facilities or arrangements could cause our revenues and operating results to decline. We currently manufacture FSR sensors at our Camarillo, California facility. This facility is vulnerable to damage from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss and similar events. It could also be subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism. Our insurance may not cover such events and, if the event is covered, our insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for any losses that may occur. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problem at our manufacturing facility could result in delayed shipment of products, missed delivery deadlines and harm to our reputation, which may cause our revenues and operating results to decline. Manufacturing is also being done by our China subsidiary and by third parties in China that are identified and managed through our Hong Kong and China subsidiaries. We rely on our subsidiaries to select and contract with contract manufacturers with suitable manufacturing facilities and appropriately trained employees. An interruption in our current manufacturing arrangements could adversely affect our revenues, operating results and customer relationships. International sales and manufacturing risks could adversely affect our operating results. Our revenues from international sales accounted for approximately 54%, 62% and 34% of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We believe that international sales will represent a substantial portion of our sales for the foreseeable future. Our manufacturing is currently performed in China and Camarillo. Our international operations involve a number of risks, including: • import-export license requirements, tariffs, taxes and other trade barriers; • difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; • ability to secure credit and funding; • difficulty in maintaining an effective system of internal controls at our foreign manufacturing facility; • foreign collection problems; • foreign exchange exposure • reduced protection of intellectual property rights; • international unrest and terrorism; • political and economic instability; and • transportation risks. Any of the above factors could adversely affect our operating results. Our operating results could be adversely affected by fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies. International sales made through our Japanese subsidiary are generally denominated in yen. A weak yen would materially affect total revenue and could result in a decrease in dollar revenue even though sales remained constant or increased. We also contract for most of our large-volume, non-technical manufacturing in China. Although we contract in U.S. dollars, a weakening of the dollar could cause existing contracts to be uneconomic to the vendor and therefore require a renegotiation. Over the past two years, the valuations of many foreign currencies have fluctuated significantly relative to the U.S. dollar. The Japanese yen, in particular, has fluctuated in value due in part to the economic problems experienced by Asian countries and the depreciation of the U.S. dollar. Although we at times engage in currency hedging transactions in order to protect ourselves from risks of Japanese yen currency fluctuations, we cannot assure you that these activities will protect us from such risks. 10 Table of Contents Environmental directives could increase our costs and/or require us to reserve against inventory. Environmental directives that affect our manufacturing processes and inventory may be enacted from time to time in the United States and abroad. Any such directives could require us to increase our inventory reserves due to obsolescence or otherwise increase the cost of doing business. In 2006, the Restriction on Hazardous Substances Directive (“ROHS”) went into effect which limited the use of hazardous raw materials in the production of electronic and electrical goods that we sell in the European Union and certain other European countries. While we currently believe our inventory reserve is adequate, we may have additional inventory write downs due to ROHS or other similar restrictions implemented by other markets. In 2007, the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment became effective and required companies that sell electronic equipment on the EU market to register with individual member states, mark their products, submit annual reports, provide recyclers with information about product recycling, and either recycle their products or participate in or fund mandatory recycling schemes. Failure to maintain, develop and expand our OEM relationships could cause demand for our products to decrease. Our Specialty Components products are sold to OEM customers. If we fail to maintain, develop and expand our relationships with our OEM customers or if those customers are not successful in their marketing and sales efforts, demand for our products may decrease. Our ability to generate increased revenues also depends significantly on the extent to which our OEM customers develop, promote and sell products that incorporate our technology and products. If our OEM customers do not successfully develop and market products that incorporate our products, sales of our products to our OEM customers would be adversely affected. The extent to which our OEM customers develop, promote and sell our products is based on a number of factors that are largely beyond our ability to control. Our MicroNav™ sensor sales are dependent on a relatively small number of relatively large contracts; our failure to obtain contracts that we expect to obtain or any event that results in the loss or reduction in size of a contract below our expectations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. The focus of our MicroNav™ sales effort targets a small number of large OEM manufacturers of handheld products and relates to specific products for which the OEM manufacturer is developing product specifications. We expend considerable effort in preparing for and bidding these contracts and make capacity planning decisions based on our expectations as to the number and size of contracts on which we will be the successful bidder. If our expectations are too optimistic, we are at risk of incurring expense in preparation for sales that we are not able to make. If our expectations are too pessimistic, we are at risk of being unprepared to perform on a contract that we could otherwise have obtained. In addition, the value of any OEM contract to us depends in part on the success of the device in which our products are included. We rely on the OEM customer’s estimates as to the size of the market for their individual products and these estimates are often inaccurate. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in predicting volume and timing in this aspect of our business. 