Item 1A. Risk Factors. This section highlights specific risks that could affect our Company and its businesses. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our Company. However, the risks and uncertainties our Company faces are not limited to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events or the circumstances described in the risks and uncertainties occur, these events or circumstances could have a material 13 Table of Contents adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. These events could also have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. We may not predict the availability of Portfolio Assets. Long-term cycles in the general economy affect the business of acquiring and resolving Portfolio Assets. We cannot predict our future annual acquisition volume of Portfolio Assets. Moreover, our future purchase of Portfolio Assets will depend on the availability of Portfolios offered for sale, the availability of capital and our ability to submit successful bids to purchase Portfolio Assets. Due to the highly competitive environment of the business of acquiring Portfolio Assets in the United States, we may be required to acquire Portfolio Assets at higher prices lowering our profit margins on the resolution of such Portfolios. To offset these changes in the domestic arena, we continue to develop our presence in other markets. Under certain circumstances, we may choose not to bid for Portfolio Assets that we believe cannot be acquired at attractive prices. As a result of all the above factors, we may be materially adversely affected by variations on our Portfolio Asset purchases, and the revenue derived from the resolution of such Portfolio Assets. Our ability to manage risks associated with growth and entry into new businesses and foreign markets may be limited. We have entered into new business related to the Portfolio Asset acquisition business and new foreign markets in the Portfolio Asset acquisition business. We have also recently entered into the business of originating and servicing loans as a small business lending company through our ninety-six percent (96%) investment in American Business Lending, Inc. ("ABL") and acquisition by ABL of unguaranteed portions of certain business loans, certain loan servicing rights and obligations including certain fees to be earned on the portion of such loans that are guaranteed by the U.S. Small Business Administration. Additionally, we have entered into a special situations platform that will buy or finance distressed debt and companies, originate junior and senior bridge loans, and execute lower middle market buyouts through our eighty percent (80%) investment in FirstCity Crestone. We are also expanding operations in Latin America and Europe. The entry into these new businesses and foreign markets has resulted in increased demands on our personnel and systems. The development and integration of the new businesses and operations in foreign venues requires the investment of additional capital and the continuous involvement of our senior management. We also must manage a variety of businesses and operations in foreign venues with differing markets, customer bases, financial products, systems and managements. An inability to develop, integrate and manage our businesses and operations in foreign venues could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. Risks related to the start up of a business or entry into a new foreign market, including the ability to implement the new business plan and strategy to generate sufficient revenues necessary to avoid losses common to start up companies, the availability of opportunities for investment in the markets to be entered, the dependency of new businesses for liquidity and our ability to support and manage continued growth is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to attract and retain senior management for each of our businesses, to hire, train, and manage our workforce and to continue to develop the skills necessary for us to compete successfully in our existing and new businesses and operations in foreign venues . There can be no assurance that we will successfully meet all of these challenges. It is likely that our actual experience will not be consistent with the assumptions underlying our Portfolio Asset performance and that the differences may be material and adverse. We determine the purchase price and carrying value of Portfolio Assets acquired by us by estimating expected future cash flows from such assets. We develop and revise such estimates based on our historical experience and current market conditions, and based on the discount rates that we 14 Table of Contents believe are appropriate for the assets comprising the Portfolios. In addition, many obligors on Portfolio Assets have impaired or poor credit history, low income or other adverse credit events. We are subject to various risks associated with these borrowers, including, but not limited to, the risk that the borrowers will not satisfy their debt service obligations and that the realizable value of the assets securing their loans will not be sufficient to repay the borrowers' debt. If our Portfolio Asset performance differs from our assumptions and estimates, we may be materially adversely affected. Investments in and revenues from our foreign operations are subject to the risks associated with transactions involving foreign currencies. We have acquired, and manage and resolve, Portfolio Assets located in Europe and Latin America and are actively pursuing opportunities to purchase additional pools of distressed assets in these locations. Foreign operations are subject to various special risks, including currency translation risks, currency exchange rate fluctuations, exchange controls and different political, social and legal environments within such foreign markets. To the extent future financing in foreign currencies is unavailable at reasonable rates, we will be further exposed to currency translation risks, currency exchange rate fluctuations and exchange controls. In addition, earnings of foreign operations may be subject to foreign income taxes that reduce cash flow available to meet debt service requirements and our other obligations, which may be payable even if we have no earnings on a consolidated basis. Fluctuation in our reported results from operations in foreign countries could materially adversely affect us. We may be materially adversely affected by fluctuation in interest rates. Most of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest. We will be materially impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. In addition, a substantial and sustained decline in interest rates may adversely impact the amount of distressed assets available for purchase by us. The value of our interest-earning assets and liabilities may be directly affected by the level of and fluctuations in interest rates, including the valuation of any residual interests in securitizations that would be severely impacted by increased loan prepayments resulting from declining interest rates. Our liquidity or ability to raise capital may be limited. The successful execution of our business strategy depends on our continued access to financing. In addition, we must also have access to liquidity to invest as equity or subordinated debt to meet our capital needs. We rely upon access to the capital markets and the cash flow from our subsidiaries to fund asset growth and to provide sources of liquidity. Our ability to issue and sell common equity (including securities convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, common equity) is limited as a result of the tax laws relating to the preservation of the NOLs available to us as a result of the Merger. There can be no assurance that our funding relationships with commercial banks, investment banks and financial services companies (including the Bank of Scotland) will continue past their respective current maturity dates. If these credit facilities are not extended and we cannot find alternative funding sources on satisfactory terms, or at all, we may be materially adversely affected. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources." We may be materially adversely affected by the decline in value of collateral securing loans acquired for resolution. The value of the collateral securing loans acquired for resolution, as well as real estate or other acquired distressed assets, is subject to various risks, including uninsured damage, change in location or 15 Table of Contents decline in value caused by use, age or market conditions. We may be materially adversely affected by any material decline in the value of such collateral. We may not have access to the estimated net operating loss carryforwards. We believe that, as a result of the Merger, approximately $596 million of NOLs were available to us to offset future taxable income as of December 31, 1995. Since December 31, 1995, we have generated an additional $131 million in tax operating losses, utilized $46 million of NOLs, written-off $84 million of NOLs, and had expiring NOLs of $36 million in 2005 and $179 million in 2006. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2006, we believe that we have approximately $382 million of NOLs available to offset future taxable income. Out of the total $382 million of NOLs, we estimate that we will be able to utilize $57 million, which equates to a $20 million deferred tax asset on our books and records. However, because our position in respect of the $596 million NOLs resulting from the Merger is based upon factual determinations and upon legal issues with respect to which there is uncertainty and because no ruling has been obtained from the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") regarding the availability of the NOLs to us, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge the availability of such NOLs and, if challenged, that the IRS will not be successful in disallowing this portion of our NOLs, with the result that our $20 million deferred tax asset would be reduced or eliminated. Some of the NOLs may be carried forward to offset our future federal taxable income through the year 2021; however, the availability of some of the NOLs began to expire beginning in 2005. Our ability to utilize such NOLs will be severely limited if there is a more than 50% ownership change at our company during a three-year testing period within the meaning of section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Tax Code"). If we were unable to utilize our NOLs to offset future taxable income, we would lose our ability to generate capital to support our expansion plans on a tax-advantaged basis, to offset our pretax income and our consolidated subsidiaries' pretax income, and to have access to the cash flow that would otherwise be represented by payments of federal tax liabilities. It is possible that our actual experience will not be consistent with the assumptions regarding recognition of deferred tax asset and that the differences may be material and adverse. As noted above, we have NOLs available for federal income tax purposes to offset future federal taxable income, if any, through the year 2021. A valuation allowance is provided to reduce the deferred tax assets to a level, which, more likely than not, will be realized. Realization is determined based on our management's expectation of generating sufficient taxable income in a look forward period over the next four years. The ultimate realization of the resulting net deferred tax asset is dependent upon generating sufficient taxable income prior to expiration of the net operating loss carryforwards. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that all of the recorded deferred tax asset, net of the allowance, will be realized. The amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable, however, could be adjusted in the future if estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period change. The change in valuation allowance represents a change in the estimate of the future taxable income during the carryforward period since the prior year-end and utilization of net operating loss carryforwards since the Merger. Our ability to realize the deferred tax asset is periodically reviewed and the valuation allowance is adjusted accordingly. See "Discussion of Critical Accounting Policies—Deferred Tax Asset." We may incur significant costs relating to removal of hazardous substances or waste from real property in its Portfolio Assets. We acquire through our subsidiaries and affiliates real property in our Portfolio Asset acquisition and resolution business. There is a risk that properties acquired by us could contain hazardous 16 Table of Contents substances or waste, contaminants or pollutants. We may be required to remove such substances from the affected properties at our expense, and the cost of such removal may substantially exceed the value of the affected properties or the loans secured by such properties. Furthermore, we may not have adequate remedies against the prior owners or other responsible parties to recover our costs, either as a matter of law or regulation, or as a result of such prior owners' financial inability to pay such costs. We may find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties either prior to or following any such removal. We may not be able to successfully compete in the business in which we operate. The business in which we operate is highly competitive. Some of our principal competitors are substantially larger and better capitalized than us. Because of their resources, these companies may be better able than us to acquire Portfolio Assets, to pursue new business opportunities or to survive periods of industry consolidation. Access to and the cost of capital are critical to our ability to compete. Many of our competitors have superior access to capital sources and can arrange or obtain lower cost of capital, resulting in a competitive disadvantage to us with respect to such competitors. In addition, certain of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow these competitors to establish lower margin requirements and pricing levels than those established by us. In the event a significant number of competitors establish pricing levels below those established by us, our ability to compete would be materially adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by a general deterioration in economic conditions. Periods of economic slowdown or recession, or declining demand for commercial real estate or commercial or consumer loans may adversely affect our business. Periods of economic slowdown or recession, whether general, regional or industry-related, may adversely affect the resolution of Portfolio Assets, lead to a decline in prices or demand for collateral underlying Portfolio Assets, or increase the cost of capital invested by us and the length of time that capital is invested in a particular Portfolio. All or any one of these events could decrease the rate of return and profits to be realized from such Portfolio and materially adversely affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations and business prospects. We may be adversely affected by the regulated environment in which we operate. Some aspects of our business are subject to regulation, examination and licensing under various federal, state and local statutes and regulations that impose requirements and restrictions affecting, among other things, credit activities, maximum interest rates, finance and other charges, disclosures to obligors, the terms of secured transactions, collection, repossession and claims handling procedures, multiple qualification and licensing requirements for doing business in various jurisdictions, and other trade practices. We believe to be currently in compliance in all material respects with applicable regulations, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such compliance. Failure to comply with, or changes in, these laws or regulations, or the expansion of our business into jurisdictions that have adopted more stringent regulatory requirements than those in which we currently conduct business, could have an adverse effect on our company by, among other things, limiting the income we may generate on existing and additional loans, limiting the states in which we may operate or restricting our ability to realize on the collateral securing its loans. See "Item 1—Business—Government Regulation." We may be adversely affected by the result of certain legal proceedings. Periodically, our company, our subsidiaries, our affiliates and the Acquisition Partnerships are parties to or otherwise involved in legal proceedings arising in the normal course of business. 17 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by a termination of our relationship with Cargill. Our relationship with Cargill is material in a number of respects. Cargill, a subsidiary of Cargill, Incorporated, a privately held, multi-national agricultural and financial services company, has provided equity and debt financings for some of the Acquisition Partnerships. Cargill beneficially owns approximately 2.28% of our outstanding Common Stock, and a Cargill designee, Jeffery Leu, is a member of our Board of Directors. We believe that our relationship with Cargill significantly enhances our credibility as a purchaser of Portfolio Assets and facilitates its ability to expand into other businesses and foreign markets. Although our management believes that our relationship with Cargill is excellent, there can be no assurance that such relationship will continue in the future. As we have begun to acquire more portfolios on our own or with other partners and have secured alternative sources of financing, our dependence on Cargill has diminished. There can be no assurance that such alternative financing will continue to be available. Any termination of such relationship could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and business prospects. We may be adversely affected by a termination of employment of certain key personnel. We are dependent on the efforts of our senior executive officers, particularly James T. Sartain (President and Chief Executive Officer). We are also dependent on several of the key members of our management who are instrumental in developing and implementing the business strategy for the Company. In addition, our borrowing facilities include key personnel provisions. These provisions generally provide that if certain key personnel are no longer employed and suitable replacements are not found within a defined time limit, certain facilities become due and payable. We may be adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of one or more of these individuals to continue in his present role. There can be no assurance that any of the foregoing individuals will continue to serve in his current capacity or for what time period such service might continue. We do not maintain key person life insurance for any of its senior executive officers. Our directors and executive officers may effectively control any vote of stockholders of our company. Our directors and executive officers collectively beneficially own 15.83% of the Common Stock. Although there are no agreements or arrangements with respect to voting such Common Stock among such persons, they, if acting together, may effectively be able to control any vote of our stockholders and thereby exert considerable influence over the affairs of our company. James T. Sartain, President and Chief Executive Officer of our company, is the beneficial owner of 5.68% of the Common Stock. There can be no assurance that the interests of management or the other entities and individuals will be aligned with our other stockholders. Restrictions on transfer of shares may prevent certain holders of our Common Stock from transferring such stock. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Certificate of Incorporation") contains provisions restricting the transfer of its securities that are designed to delay, defer or prevent a change of control of our company by deterring unsolicited tender offers or other unilateral takeover proposals and compelling negotiations with our Board of Directors rather than non-negotiated takeover attempts even if such events may be in the best interests of our stockholders. Our Certificate of Incorporation also contains certain provisions restricting the transfer of securities in our company that are designed to prevent ownership changes that might limit or eliminate our ability to use our NOLs resulting from the Merger. Such restrictions may prevent certain holders of Common Stock from transferring such stock even if such holders are permitted to sell such stock without restriction under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and may limit our ability to sell Common Stock to certain 18 Table of Contents existing holders of Common Stock at an advantageous time or at a time when capital may be required but unavailable from any other source. We may be adversely affected by period to period variances. The revenue of our company and Acquisition Partnerships is based on proceeds realized from the resolution of the Portfolio Assets, which proceeds have historically varied significantly and likely will continue to vary significantly from period to period. Consequently, our period-to-period revenue and results of operations have historically varied, and are likely to continue to vary, correspondingly. Such variances, alone or with other factors, such as conditions in the economy or the financial services industries or other developments affecting us, may result in significant fluctuations in our reported operations and in the trading prices of our securities, particularly the Common Stock. We may be adversely affected by tax, monetary and fiscal policy changes. We originate and acquire financial assets, the value and income potential of which are subject to influence by foreign regulations, various state and federal tax, monetary and fiscal policies in effect from time to time. The nature and direction of such policies are entirely outside our control, and we cannot predict the timing or effect of changes in such policies. Changes in such policies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and business prospects. We may be adversely affected by changes in future cash receipts. We have in the past been able to establish with reasonable accuracy the estimated future cash receipts over the life of a purchased asset pool. Changes in economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates, deterioration of collateral values, and other factors described in this section could cause the estimates of future cash flows to be materially different than actual cash receipts. The effects of an increase in the estimated future cash receipts would generally increase revenues from Portfolio Assets by increasing gross profit on a non-performing or real estate pool and increasing the effective yield on a performing or SOP 03-3 Portfolio while a decrease in future cash receipts would generally have the effect of reducing revenues by reducing gross profit on a non-performing or real estate pool and decreasing the effective yield on a performing or SOP 03-3 Portfolio. In some cases a reduction in the total future cash receipts by collecting those cash receipts sooner than expected could have a positive impact on our revenues from Portfolio Assets due to reduced interest expense and other carrying costs associated with the Portfolio Assets. Although such trend is a generally positive trend, we may be adversely affected by the higher levels of interest expense and other carrying costs of the Portfolios negating any potentially positive effects. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 