Item 1A. Risk Factors. This section highlights specific risks that could affect our Company and its businesses. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our Company. However, the risks and uncertainties our Company faces are not limited to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events or the circumstances described in the risks and uncertainties occur, these events or circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. These events could also have a negative impact on the trading price of our securities. Recent instability in the financial markets and global economy may affect our access to capital, our ability to purchase accounts, and the success of our collection efforts. Recently, the residential real estate market in the U.S. has experienced a significant downturn due to declining real estate values, substantially reducing mortgage loan originations and securitizations and precipitating more generalized credit market dislocations and a significant contraction in available liquidity globally. Financial markets in the United States and internationally have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, volatility in security prices, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. These factors, combined with fluctuating oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic recession. All types of borrowers are experiencing higher delinquency rates on various loans and defaults on indebtedness of all kinds have increased. Further declines in real estate values in the U.S. or elsewhere and continuing credit and liquidity concerns could further reduce our ability to collect on our loan portfolios and would adversely affect their value. In addition, continued or further credit market dislocations or sustained market downturns may reduce the ability of lenders to originate new credit, limiting our ability to purchase loan portfolios in the future. Further, increased financial pressure on distressed borrowers may result in additional regulatory restrictions on our operations and increased litigation filed against us. We are unable to predict the likely duration or severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions and the effects they may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the performance and creditworthiness of borrowers and other counterparties may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Current market developments and economic conditions have affected business and consumer confidence levels which may result in adverse changes in payment patterns of our borrowers and obligors. This market turmoil and the tightening of credit have led to an increased level of loan delinquencies, lack of business and consumer confidence, and widespread reduction of business activity generally. A worsening of these conditions would likely aggravate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on our business, our borrowers and others in the financial services industry. Increased delinquencies and default rates may impact our loan charge-offs and related provisioning for loan losses. Deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolios could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We may incur significant credit losses due to downward trends in the economy and in the real estate market. The repayment of our Portfolio Assets and loans receivable is generally dependent upon future cash flows of the borrowers and/or future cash flows of the underlying collateral. While we evaluate our Portfolio Assets and loans receivable for impairment on a regular basis by reviewing the collectibility of the assets in light of various factors, worsening economic conditions increase the risk that our borrowers will not be able to repay our loans, and worsening real estate market conditions increase the risk that the value of the properties securing certain of our loans will be insufficient to repay amounts owing to us in the event our borrowers default on the loans. Deterioration in the value of the underlying loan collateral could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be materially adversely affected by the decline in value of collateral securing our loans. The value of the underlying collateral that secures our loans, as well as real estate or other acquired distressed assets, is subject to various risks, including uninsured damage, change in location, or decline in value caused by use, age or market conditions (as discussed above). We may be materially adversely affected by any material decline in the value of such collateral. We may experience greater credit losses than anticipated if our loan loss allowances are not sufficient to cover actual losses. We are exposed to the risk that our obligors will be unable to pay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure payment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of purchasing and originating loans, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our credit risk with respect to real estate loan portfolio will relate principally to the creditworthiness of the obligors and the value of the real estate serving as security for the repayment of loans. Our credit risk with respect to our commercial loans will relate principally to the general creditworthiness of businesses and individuals and the value of the business assets serving as security for the repayment of the loans. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loans and the values of the underlying loan collateral for estimated credit losses based on a number of factors. If our assumptions and judgments are wrong, our existing allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual credit losses. We may have to increase our allowance and record additional loss provisions to adjust for changing conditions and assumptions, or as a result of any deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolio. The actual amount of future provisions cannot be determined at this time and may vary from the amounts of past provisions. We may not predict the availability of Portfolio Assets. Long-term cycles in the general economy affect the business of acquiring and resolving Portfolio Assets. We cannot predict our future annual acquisition volume of Portfolio Assets. Moreover, our future purchase of Portfolio Assets will depend on the availability of Portfolios offered for sale, the availability of capital, and our ability to submit successful bids to purchase Portfolio Assets. Due to the highly competitive environment of the business of acquiring Portfolio Assets in the United States, we may be required to acquire Portfolio Assets at higher prices, which will lower our profit margins on the resolution of such Portfolios. To off-set these changes in the domestic arena, we continue to develop our presence in other markets. Under certain circumstances, we may choose not to bid for Portfolio Assets that we believe cannot be acquired at attractive prices. As a result of all the above factors, we may be materially adversely affected by variations on our Portfolio Asset purchases, and the revenue derived from the resolution of such Portfolio Assets. 18 Table of Contents Our ability to manage risks associated with growth and entry into new businesses and foreign markets may be limited. We have entered into new business related to the Portfolio Asset acquisition business and new foreign markets in the Portfolio Asset acquisition business. We also recently entered into the business of originating and servicing loans as a small business lending company. Furthermore, we recently formed a special situations platform that provides investment capital to domestic privately-held middle-market companies through debt and equity investments. The entry into these new businesses and foreign markets has resulted in increased demands on our personnel and systems. The development and integration of the new businesses and operations in foreign venues requires the investment of additional capital and the continuous involvement of our senior management. We also must manage a variety of businesses and operations in foreign venues with differing markets, customer bases, financial products, systems and managements. An inability to develop, integrate and manage our businesses and operations in foreign venues could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. Risks related to the start up of a business or entry into a new foreign market, including the ability to implement the new business plan and strategy to generate sufficient revenues necessary to avoid losses common to start up companies, the availability of opportunities for investment in the markets to be entered, the dependency of new businesses for liquidity and our ability to support and manage continued growth is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to attract and retain senior management for each of our businesses, to hire, train, and manage our workforce and to continue to develop the skills necessary for us to compete successfully in our existing and new businesses and operations in foreign venues. There can be no assurance that we will successfully meet all of these challenges. We may not be able to purchase Portfolio Assets or make investments at sufficiently favorable prices or terms, or at all. Our ability to continue to generate revenues depends upon the continued availability of Portfolio Assets and middle-market capital investment opportunities that meet our purchase standards and investment criteria. There is no assurance that loan portfolios will be available for purchase or that middle-market investment opportunities will be available in the future, or at all, at favorable pricing and on terms acceptable to us. In addition, because of the highly competitive nature of these markets and the recent deterioration in general economic conditions, we may not be able to identify trends and make changes in our purchasing and investment strategies in a timely manner. Ultimately, if we are unable to continually purchase Portfolio Assets and/or invest capital in middle-market companies, our business will be materially and adversely affected. It is likely that our actual experience will not be consistent with the assumptions underlying our Portfolio Asset performance and that the differences may be material and adverse. We determine the purchase price and carrying value of Portfolio Assets acquired by us by estimating expected future cash flows from such assets. We develop and revise such estimates based on our historical experience and current market conditions, and based on the discount rates that we believe are appropriate for the assets comprising the Portfolios. In addition, many obligors on Portfolio Assets have impaired or poor credit history, low income or other adverse credit events. We are subject to various risks associated with these borrowers, including, but not limited to, the risk that the borrowers will not satisfy their debt service obligations and that the realizable value of the assets securing their loans will not be sufficient to repay the borrowers' debt. If our Portfolio Asset performance differs from our assumptions and estimates, we may be materially adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Investments in and revenues from our foreign operations are subject to the risks associated with transactions involving foreign currencies. We manage and resolve, Portfolio Assets that we purchased in Europe and Latin America. Foreign operations are subject to various special risks, including currency translation risks, currency exchange rate fluctuations, foreign currency controls, and different political, social and legal environments within such foreign markets. To the extent future financing in foreign currencies is unavailable at reasonable rates, we will be further exposed to currency translation risks, currency exchange rate fluctuations and exchange controls. In addition, earnings of foreign operations may be subject to foreign income taxes that reduce cash flow available to meet debt service requirements and our other obligations, which may be payable even if we have no earnings on a consolidated basis. Fluctuations in our reported results from operations in foreign countries could materially adversely affect us. For operations outside the U.S., we determined that the local currency is the functional currency for such operations. As such, we translate the results of operations for our foreign subsidiaries and affiliates from the designated functional currency to the U.S. dollar using average exchange rates during the relevant period. Since our revenues in foreign operations are denominated in non-U.S. currencies, fluctuations in exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and assets. In addition, changes in exchange rates associated with U.S. dollar-denominated assets and liabilities result in foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Since we report our results of operations in U.S. dollars, changes in relative foreign currency valuations from our foreign operations may result in reductions in our reported revenues, operating income and earnings, as well as a reduction in the carrying value of our foreign-related assets. Accordingly, if the values of local currencies in foreign countries in which certain of our subsidiaries and affiliates conduct business depreciate relative to the U.S. dollar, we would expect our operating results in future periods, and the value of our assets held in local currencies, to be adversely impacted. We may be materially adversely affected by fluctuation in interest rates. Most of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest. We will be materially impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. In addition, a substantial and sustained decline in interest rates may adversely impact the amount of distressed assets available for purchase by us. The value of our interest-earning assets and liabilities may be directly affected by the level of and fluctuations in interest rates, including the valuation of any residual interests in securitizations that would be severely impacted by increased loan prepayments resulting from declining interest rates. Our liquidity or ability to raise capital may be limited. The successful execution of our business strategy depends on our continued access to obtain financing. In addition, we must also have access to liquidity to invest as equity or subordinated debt to meet our capital needs. We rely upon access to the capital markets and the cash flow from our subsidiaries to fund asset growth and to provide sources of liquidity. Our ability to issue and sell common equity (including securities convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, common equity) is limited as a result of the tax laws relating to the preservation of the NOLs available to us as a result of the Merger. There can be no assurance that our funding relationships with commercial banks, investment banks and financial services companies (including the Bank of Scotland) will continue past their respective current maturity dates. If these credit facilities are not extended and we cannot find alternative funding sources on satisfactory terms, or at all, we may be materially adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents We may not be able to retain, renegotiate or replace our existing primary credit facility. If we are unable to retain, renegotiate or replace our primary credit facility with Bank of Scotland, our growth could be adversely affected, which could negatively impact our business operations and the price of our common stock. We may not be able to continue to satisfy the covenants in our debt agreements. Substantially all of our business assets are pledged to secure amounts owed to our lenders. Certain of our debt agreements impose a number of covenants restricting how we operate our business. Failure to satisfy any one of these covenants could result in all or any of the following consequences, each of which could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to conduct business: (1) acceleration of outstanding indebtedness; (2) inability to continue to purchase Portfolio Assets and fund investments needed to operate our business; and (3) our inability to secure alternative financing on favorable terms, if at all. We may not be able to utilize all of our estimated net operating loss carryforwards. We believe that, as a result of the Merger, approximately $597 million of NOLs were available to us to off-set future taxable income as of December 31, 1995. Since December 31, 1995, we have generated an additional $56 million in net tax operating losses, utilized $95 million of NOLs, and had expiring NOLs of $334 million. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2008, we believe that we have approximately $224 million of NOLs available to off-set future taxable income, if any. However, because our position in regard to the original $597 million of NOLs resulting from the Merger is based upon factual determinations and upon legal issues with respect to which there is uncertainty, and because no ruling has been obtained from the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") regarding the availability of the NOLs to us, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge the availability of such NOLs and, if challenged, that the IRS will not be successful in disallowing this portion of our NOLs. In a letter dated March 26, 2008, the IRS notified FirstCity of the completion of its examination on the Company's 2004 federal income tax return. The examination results were that no changes were made to FirstCity's original tax return as filed. Tax year 1994 and subsequent years are open to federal examination. The NOLs may be carried forward to off-set our future federal taxable income, if any, through the year 2027; however, the availability of a portion of the NOLs began to expire in 2005. Furthermore, our ability to utilize such NOLs will be severely limited if there is a more than a 50% ownership change at our company during a three-year testing period within the meaning of section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Tax Code"). If we are unable to utilize our NOLs to off-set future taxable income, we would lose our ability to generate capital to support our expansion plans on a tax-advantaged basis, to off-set our pretax income and our consolidated subsidiaries' pretax income, and to have access to the cash flow that would otherwise be represented by payments of federal income tax liabilities. We may not be able to utilize all of our deferred tax assets. In 2008, we established a full valuation allowance for the deferred tax asset to reduce its net carrying value to $0. Our deferred tax asset consists primarily of NOLs (discussed above), capital loss carryforwards, and differences in tax and financial reporting bases of our Acquisition Partnerships—off-set primarily by foreign non-repatriated earnings (refer to Note 11 of the Company's 2008 Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the deferred tax asset components). Some or all of our deferred tax assets could expire unused if we are unable to generate taxable income in the future sufficient to utilize them or we enter into transactions that limit our right to use them. If a material portion of our deferred tax assets expire unused, it could have a material adverse impact on 21 Table of Contents our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to realize the deferred tax asset is periodically reviewed and the valuation allowance is adjusted accordingly. See "Discussion of Critical Accounting Policies—Deferred Tax Asset" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may incur significant costs relating to removal of hazardous substances or waste from real property. Our subsidiaries and affiliates hold real property acquired through purchase transactions or through loan foreclosure. There is a risk that properties acquired by us could contain hazardous substances or waste, contaminants or pollutants. We may be required to remove such substances from the affected properties at our expense, and the cost of such removal may substantially exceed the value of the affected properties or the loans secured by such properties. Furthermore, we may not have adequate remedies against the prior owners or other responsible parties to recover our costs, either as a matter of law or regulation, or as a result of such prior owners' financial inability to pay such costs. We may find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties either prior to or following any such removal. The major business segments in which we operate are highly competitive, and we may be unable to continue to compete successfully with businesses that may have greater resources than we have. Our Portfolio Asset Acquisition and Resolution business segment faces competition from a wide range of financial services companies and other competitors that may have substantially greater financial, personnel and other resources, greater adaptability to changing market needs and more established relationships in our industry than we currently have. Competitive pressures adversely affect the availability and pricing of loan portfolios, as well as the availability and cost of qualified recovery personnel. Because there are few significant barriers to entry for new purchasers of portfolios, there is a risk that additional competitors with greater resources than ours, including competitors that have historically focused on the acquisition of different asset types, will enter our market. If we are unable to develop and expand our business or adapt to changing market needs as well as our current or future competitors, we may experience reduced access to charged-off receivable portfolios at acceptable prices, which could reduce our profitability. Moreover, we may not be able to offer competitive bids for loan portfolios. We face bidding competition in our acquisition of loan portfolios. In our industry, successful bids generally are awarded on a combination of price, service and relationships with the debt sellers. Some of our current and future competitors may have more effective pricing and collection models, greater adaptability to changing market needs and more established relationships in our industry. They also may pay prices for portfolios that we determine are not reasonable. We may not be able to offer competitive bids for loan portfolios. In our Special Situations Platform business segment, our primary competition to provide investment capital to middle-market companies include public and private funds, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies, insurance companies and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity funds. Many of our existing and potential competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial and marketing resources that we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. If we are unable to purchase loan portfolios at favorable prices or at all, or if we are unable to provide investment capital to middle-market companies on acceptable terms or at all, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. 22 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by the regulated environment in which we operate. Some aspects of our business are subject to regulation, examination and licensing under various federal, state and local statutes and regulations that impose requirements and restrictions affecting, among other things, credit activities, maximum interest rates, finance and other charges, disclosures to obligors, the terms of secured transactions, collection, repossession and claims handling procedures, multiple qualification and licensing requirements for doing business in various jurisdictions, and other trade practices. We believe that we are currently in compliance in all material respects with applicable regulations, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such compliance. Failure to comply with, or changes in, these laws or regulations, or the expansion of our business into jurisdictions that have adopted more stringent regulatory requirements than those in which we currently conduct business, could have an adverse effect on our company by, among other things, limiting the income we may generate on existing and additional loans, limiting the states in which we may operate or restricting our ability to realize on the collateral securing its loans. We may be adversely affected by the result of certain legal proceedings. The Company has been, and may in the future be, subject to various legal proceedings. It is inherently difficult to assess the outcome of these matters, and there can be no assurance that the Company will prevail in any proceeding or litigation. Any such matter could result in substantial cost and diversion of our efforts, which by itself could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operating results. Further, adverse determinations in such matters could materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by a disruption or termination of our relationships with our Acquisition Partnership investors. Our relationship with Cargill, Inc. is material in a number of respects. Cargill, Inc., a privately-held, multi-national agricultural and financial services company, has provided equity and debt financing for a large portion of our domestic and European Acquisition Partnerships. We believe that our relationship with Cargill significantly enhances our credibility as a purchaser of Portfolio Assets and facilitates our ability to expand into other businesses and foreign markets. Although management believes that our relationship with Cargill is excellent, there can be no assurance that such relationship will continue in the future. As we have begun to acquire more portfolios on our own or with other investors, and have secured alternative sources of financing, our dependence on Cargill has diminished. There can be no assurance that such alternative financing will continue to be available. Any termination of such relationship could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and business prospects. American International Group, Inc. ("AIG"), an international insurance organization, and certain of its affiliates are investors in a substantial majority of our Latin American Acquisition Partnerships. Although management believes that our relationship with AIG is excellent, there can be no assurance that such relationship will continue in the future. The termination or disruption of our investing relationship with AIG could adversely impact the results of our Latin American Acquisition Partnerships. The consequences of a disturbance in our relationship with AIG could be exacerbated due to the significant influence they exert as a majority-owner in a substantial majority of our Latin American Acquisition Partnerships. If our current relationship with AIG deteriorates, or if we are unable to find another suitable investor for our Latin American Acquisition Partnerships in the event our investing relationship with AIG is terminated, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by a termination of employment of certain key personnel. We are dependent on the efforts of our senior executive officers. We are also dependent on several key members of our management who are instrumental in developing and implementing the business strategy for the Company. In addition, our borrowing facilities include key personnel provisions. These provisions generally provide that if certain key personnel are no longer employed and suitable replacements are not found within a defined time limit, certain facilities become due and payable. We may be adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of one or more of these individuals to continue in his present role. There can be no assurance that any of the foregoing individuals will continue to serve in his current capacity or for what time period such service might continue. We do not maintain key person life insurance for any of its senior executive officers. Our directors and executive officers may effectively control any vote of stockholders of our company. Our directors and executive officers collectively beneficially own 18.47% of our common stock. Although there are no agreements or arrangements with respect to voting such common stock among such persons, they, if acting together, may effectively be able to control any vote of our stockholders and thereby exert considerable influence over the affairs of our company. James T. Sartain, President and Chief Executive Officer of FirstCity, is the beneficial owner of 6.7% of our common stock. There can be no assurance that the interests of management or the other entities and individuals will be aligned with our other common stockholders. Restrictions on transfer of shares may prevent certain holders of our common stock from transferring such stock. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Certificate of Incorporation") contains provisions restricting the transfer of ours securities that are designed to delay, defer or prevent a change of control of our Company by deterring unsolicited tender offers or other unilateral takeover proposals and compelling negotiations with our Board of Directors rather than non-negotiated takeover attempts even if such events may be in the best interests of our stockholders. Our Certificate of Incorporation also contains certain provisions restricting the transfer of securities in our Company that are designed to prevent ownership changes that might limit or eliminate our ability to use our NOLs resulting from the Merger. Such restrictions may prevent certain holders of our common stock from transferring such stock even if such holders are permitted to sell such stock without restriction under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and may limit our ability to sell our common stock to certain existing common stockholders at an advantageous time or at a time when capital may be required but unavailable from any other source. We may be adversely affected by period to period variances. A large portion of our revenue is based on proceeds realized from the resolution of the Portfolio Assets, which proceeds have historically varied significantly and likely will continue to vary significantly from period to period. Consequently, our period-to-period revenue and results of operations have historically varied, and are likely to continue to vary, correspondingly. Such variances, alone or with other factors, such as conditions in the economy or the financial services industries or other developments affecting us, may result in significant fluctuations in our reported operations and in the trading prices of our securities, particularly our common stock. We may be adversely affected by tax, monetary and fiscal policy changes. We originate and acquire financial assets, the value and income potential of which are subject to influence by foreign regulations, various state and federal tax, monetary and fiscal policies in effect from time to time. The nature and direction of such policies are entirely outside our control, and we 24 Table of Contents cannot predict the timing or effect of changes in such policies. Changes in such policies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and business prospects. We may incur impairment charges based on the provisions of American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position 03-3. We have in the past been able to establish with reasonable accuracy the estimated future cash receipts over the life of a purchased asset pool. Changes in economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates, deterioration of collateral values, and other factors described in this section could cause the estimates of future cash flows to be materially different than actual cash receipts—which could adversely impact the results of operations if our future cash flow estimates decrease on loan portfolios accounted for under AICPA Statement of Position 03-3, "Accounting for Loans or Certain Securities Acquired in a Transfer" ("SOP 03-3"). SOP 03-3 provides guidance on accounting for differences between contractual and expected cash flows from an investor's initial investment in loans or debt securities acquired in a transfer if those differences are attributable, at least in part, to credit quality. SOP 03-3 is effective for loan portfolios acquired in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2004 and was adopted by us on January 1, 2005. SOP 03-3 limits the revenue that may be accrued to the excess of the estimate of expected future cash flows over a portfolio's initial cost of accounts receivable acquired. SOP 03-3 requires that the excess of the contractual cash flows over expected cash flows not be recognized as an adjustment of revenue, expense, or on the balance sheet. SOP 03-3 freezes the internal rate of return ("IRR") originally estimated when the accounts receivable are purchased for subsequent impairment testing. Rather than lower the estimated IRR if the expected future cash flow estimates are decreased, the carrying value of our receivable portfolios would be written down to maintain the then-current IRR. The SOP also amends AICPA Practice Bulletin 6 in a similar manner and applies to all loans acquired prior to January 1, 2005. Increases in expected future cash flows would be recognized prospectively through an upward adjustment of the IRR over a portfolio's remaining life. Any increased yield then becomes the new benchmark for impairment testing and income recognition. Since SOP 03-3 does not permit yields to be lowered, there is an increased probability of our having to incur impairment charges in the future if the expected future cash flow estimates are decreased, which would negatively impact our profitability. If we cannot meet NASDAQ's continued listing requirements, NASDAQ may delist our common stock, which would have an adverse impact on the liquidity and market price of our common stock. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market ("NASDAQ"). Under NASDAQ rules, a stock can be delisted and not allowed to trade on NASDAQ if the closing bid price of the stock over a 30 consecutive trading-day period is less than $1.00. Since the beginning of the financial markets crisis, we have experienced and continue to experience significant volatility, including substantial decreases, in the price of our common stock. On March 27, 2009, the closing price of our common stock was a $1.43 per share. NASDAQ implemented a temporary suspension of the rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price on October 16, 2008, and later extended the suspension until July 19, 2009. If the suspension is not extended further, there is a risk in light of the continued depressed state of the economy and credit and capital markets that our common stock could further decline in share price below the minimum listing requirement, and thus be delisted from NASDAQ if the suspension is not further extended. A delisting of our common stock could negatively impact us by reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock and the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing. 25 Table of Contents Natural disasters, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires and floods, may adversely affect the general economy, financial and capital markets, specific industries, and our results of operations. We have a number of borrowers and financed properties that are located along the Gulf of Mexico and other regions where natural disasters may occur. These regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, fires and floods. These types of natural disasters at times have disrupted the local economy, our borrowers and have posed physical risks to our properties that serve as loan collateral. A significant natural disaster could materially adversely affect our operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 