Item 1A. Risk Factors. As a "smaller reporting company" as defined by Item 10 of Regulation S-K, the Company is not required to provide information required by this Item. Notwithstanding the foregoing, as a result of entering into the merger agreement, we are disclosing certain risk factors as set forth below. Any investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below. Termination of the merger agreement or failure to complete the merger on a timely basis or at all may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If the merger agreement between the Company, Parent and Merger Subsidiary is terminated or if the parties fail to consummate the merger on a timely basis or at all, there may be a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations. For example, our business may have been adversely affected by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the focus of management on the merger, without realizing any of the anticipated benefits of completing the merger. If the merger agreement is terminated and the Company's Board of Directors seeks another merger or business combination, our stockholders cannot be certain that we will be able to find a party willing to pay the equivalent or greater consideration than that which Parent and Merger Subsidiary have agreed to pay with respect to the merger. In addition, if the Company, Parent and Merger Subsidiary do not complete the merger on a timely basis or at all, the market price of the Company's common stock may decline to the extent that the current market prices of those shares reflect a market assumption that the merger will be completed. If the merger is not completed on a timely basis or at all, additional risks could materialize, which could materially and adversely affect the business, financial results, financial condition and stock price of the Company. The merger agreement limits the Company's ability to pursue an alternative acquisition proposal and requires the Company to pay a termination fee of $2 million under limited circumstances relating to alternative acquisition proposals. The merger agreement prohibits the Company from soliciting, initiating, endorsing or knowingly encouraging or facilitating certain alternative acquisition proposals with any third party, subject to exceptions set forth in the merger agreement. These provisions might discourage a potential competing acquirer that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of the Company from considering or proposing such an acquisition. Additionally, the Company is limited in its ability to entertain or accept another offer from an entity that is superior to the offer of Parent. In the event the Company were to accept such an alternative acquisition proposal, the Company could be required to pay a termination fee of $2 million and to reimburse Parent and Merger Subsidiary up to $1 million of expenses incurred by them in connection with the merger, which could materially adversely affect the financial condition of the Company. 20 Table of Contents We will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger is pending. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees may have an adverse effect on us and our business. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed, and could cause others that deal with the Company to seek to change existing business relationships. Retention of certain employees by the Company may be challenging while the merger is pending, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the Company. In addition, subject to certain exceptions, we have agreed to operate our business in the ordinary course prior to closing of the merger. Some of the directors and executive officers of FirstCity have interests in the merger that may be different from, or in addition to, those of the other FirstCity stockholders. Some of the Company's directors and executive officers have interests in the merger that may be different from, or in addition to, the interests of our stockholders generally, including accelerated vesting and cash-out of in-the-money stock options and accelerated vesting of restricted stock held by executive officers, non-employee directors and employees of the Company. Certain of our executive officers are parties to agreements with Parent or the Company that provide for employment and consulting arrangements or severance benefits, and certain of such persons will become the initial executive officers of the surviving corporation and be entitled to equity compensation of the Parent upon closing of the merger. The surviving corporation will provide our directors and officers with continued indemnification and advancement rights and directors' and officers' liability insurance. Our directors and certain of our executive officers have entered into a support agreement with Parent, pursuant to which they agreed to vote all of their shares of the Company's common stock, approximately 16.63% of our outstanding shares as of March 11, 2013, in favor of the adoption of the merger agreement, among other things. Pending litigation against FirstCity, members of the FirstCity Board of Directors, Parent, Merger Subsidiary and Värde could result in an injunction preventing completion of the merger and/or may adversely affect FirstCity's business, financial condition or results of operations. FirstCity, members of the FirstCity board of directors, Parent, Merger Subsidiary and Värde are named as defendants in lawsuits purportedly brought by and on behalf of FirstCity stockholders challenging the proposed merger, seeking, among other things, to enjoin the defendants from completing the merger on the agreed-upon terms. If completion of the merger is prevented or delayed, it could result in substantial costs to FirstCity. In addition, FirstCity could incur costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, associated with the indemnification of FirstCity's directors and officers and the defense and settlement of any such legal proceedings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 21 Table of Contents 