ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS We operate in rapidly changing industries and have recently entered new lines of business, all of which make our operating results difficult to predict. The industries in which we operate are rapidly changing and evolving. The evolution of these industries makes our risks, capital needs and operating results difficult to predict. Any failure to adapt our services in response to changing market and technological requirements could adversely affect our operating results. In connection with recent acquisitions, we have also recently entered into new lines of business: the online private sale business, the off-price e-commerce marketplace business and the affiliate marketing business. The online private sale business is an especially new and unproven business model. We have limited experience in these new lines of business, and we will be required to devote substantial financial, technical, managerial and other resources to them. We cannot assure you that these new lines of business will be successful. 8 Table of Contents We may not achieve the expected benefits of acquisitions and investments. We have acquired a number of companies and invested in a number of companies, products and technologies, and we may acquire additional companies or invest in additional companies, products or technologies in the future. These transactions are accompanied by a number of risks, including: • failure of acquired companies to achieve planned results; • unanticipated problems and liabilities of acquired companies, including patent and trademark infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes and tax liabilities; • difficulties resolving indemnification disputes with previous owners; • disruptions to our ongoing business; • difficulties in retention and assimilation of the employees of the acquired business; • difficulties in assimilation of acquired operations, technology, products and/or services; • the difficulty of integrating a new company’s accounting, financial reporting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; and • diversion of management and employee time and focus. These transactions may also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, use of our cash resources, and incurrence of debt and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. Our failure to be successful in addressing these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments. In addition, valuations supporting our acquisitions and investments could change. We could determine that such valuations have experienced impairments or other-than-temporary declines in fair value which could adversely impact our financial results. Our failure to manage growth and diversification of our business could harm us. We are continuing our efforts to grow and diversify our business both in the United States and internationally. This has placed, and will continue to place, demands on our management, as well as on our operational and financial infrastructure. To effectively manage our growth initiatives, we will need to continue to expand, improve and adapt our personnel, operations, infrastructure and our financial, information and other systems and continue to implement adequate controls. These enhancements and improvements are likely to be complex and could require significant capital expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. We may also have to expand our management team by recruiting and employing additional experienced executives and employees. If we are unable to adapt our systems and business, put adequate controls in place and expand our management team in a timely manner to accommodate our growth, our business may be adversely affected. We plan to continue to expand our business internationally which may cause our business to become increasingly susceptible to numerous international business risks and challenges. We have limited experience in international operations. For fiscal 2009, substantially all of our net revenues, income from operations and assets were in the United States. Our growth strategy involves expanding our business internationally, and since 2006, we have completed acquisitions of companies in Spain and the United Kingdom and opened a fulfillment center in Canada. However, we have limited experience in international business, and we cannot assure you that our international expansion strategy will be successful. Our experience in the United States may not be relevant to our ability to expand internationally. In addition, our lack of a track record outside the United States increases our execution risks and the risks described below. 9 Table of Contents International expansion is subject to inherent risks and challenges that could adversely affect our business, including: • the need to develop new supplier and manufacturer relationships, particularly because major manufacturers may require that our international operations deal with local distributors; • substantial competition with local companies; • compliance with international legal and regulatory requirements and tariffs (see also “— Existing or future laws or regulations could harm our business or marketing efforts,” below); • managing fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; • potential adverse tax consequences; • uncertain political and economic climates; • potentially higher incidence of fraud; • different employer/employee relationships; • cultural ambivalence toward, or non-acceptance of, e-commerce businesses; • language barriers; • price controls or other restrictions on foreign currency; and • difficulties in obtaining export and import licenses and compliance with applicable export controls. Some of these factors may cause our international costs of doing business to exceed our comparable domestic costs. Any negative impact from our international business efforts could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition as a whole. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Our businesses are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. In our e-commerce services segment, we face competition from in-house e-commerce solutions, technology and service providers which supply one or more components of an e-commerce solution and other providers of integrated e-commerce solutions. Low barriers to entry into the e-commerce solutions market may increase the number of competitors our e-commerce business may face. As we continue to expand internationally, our e-commerce services segment will face increased competition from local companies which may have a greater understanding of, and focus on, the local customer. Our e-commerce services segment has competitors with longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition or greater financial, marketing and other resources. Those competitors may be able to secure merchandise on more favorable terms and devote more resources to technology development and marketing than our e-commerce services segment. In our interactive marketing services segment, we face competition from other providers of interactive marketing services, other providers of traditional marketing services and in-house marketing departments. Low barriers to entry in the interactive marketing industry may increase the number of competitors our interactive marketing services business may face. International expansion of our interactive marketing services segment will increase our exposure to competition with local companies who may have a competitive advantage because of their understanding of the needs of local businesses and consumers. Our interactive marketing services segment has competitors with longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition or greater financial, marketing and other resources who are able to devote more resources to technology development and marketing. In our consumer engagement segment, we face competition from the offline businesses of retailers and manufacturers and other e-commerce Web sites. New private sale Web sites may be created and traditional 10 Table of Contents liquidators and online retailers may develop services that compete with our online private sale channel and off-price marketplace. If our competitors are able to secure merchandise on more favorable terms, our consumer engagement business could be harmed. In addition, manufacturers and retailers may decide to create their own Web sites for selling excess inventory. Local companies will have a competitive advantage over our consumer engagement segment as we expand internationally. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. In addition, competition may intensify as our competitors enter into business combinations or alliances and established companies in other market segments or geographic markets expand into our market segments or geographic markets. If we cannot compete successfully against our competitors, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. Our business is highly seasonal; a weak fourth quarter would have a material adverse effect on our operating results for the year. Our fourth fiscal quarter has accounted for and is expected to continue to account for a disproportionate amount of our total annual revenues. For fiscal 2009, 42.8% of our annual net revenues were generated in our fourth fiscal quarter. For fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, 40.5% and 44.7% of our annual net revenues were generated in our fourth fiscal quarter, respectively. Since fiscal 1999, we have not generated net income in any fiscal quarter other than a fourth fiscal quarter. Our results of operations historically have been seasonal primarily because consumers increase their purchases during the fourth quarter holiday season. Because our fourth quarter accounts for a larger percentage of our annual revenue, any negative impact on our business during the fourth quarter will have a disproportionate adverse affect on our results of operations for the full year. Certain significant components of our expenses, including rent, utilities, maintenance and other facility-related expenses and the costs of our information technology systems, are incurred throughout the year at amounts required in order to maintain the capacity required during our fourth quarter. In addition, we have significant cash requirements in the months leading up to our fourth quarter in anticipation of higher sales volume during the fourth quarter, including expenses for additional inventory, advertising and employees. Our fourth quarter results could be lower than expected if, among other things: • we and our clients do not increase inventory levels for popular products in sufficient amounts or are unable to restock popular products in a timely manner, and we or our clients fail to meet customer demand; • we overstock products and are required to take significant inventory markdowns or write-offs, which could reduce profits; • too many consumers access our and our clients’ e-commerce Webstores within a short period of time due to increased holiday or other demand or we inaccurately forecast consumer traffic, and as a result we experience system interruptions that make our and our clients’ e-commerce Webstores unavailable or prevent us from transmitting orders to our fulfillment operations; or • we are unable to adequately staff our fulfillment and customer service centers during these peak periods. If for any reason our fourth fiscal quarter results were substantially below expectations, our operating results for the full year would be materially adversely affected. General economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. General economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The direction and relative strength of the global economy continues to be uncertain due to recent softness in the real estate and mortgage markets, volatility in fuel and other energy costs, varying economic conditions in different countries, difficulties in the financial services sector and credit markets, high levels of unemployment and other macro-economic factors. Consumer uncertainty about current economic conditions could adversely affect consumer confidence and behavior in ways that adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For example, the economic uncertainty could cause consumers to reduce their discretionary purchases of goods which 11 Table of Contents we and our clients sell. This in turn could result in slower inventory turnover and could cause us or our clients to have greater markdowns on inventory. We have an accumulated deficit and may incur additional losses. Since 2001, we have recorded net losses in all but two of our fiscal years. As of the end of fiscal 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $165.6 million. If we fail to generate sufficient revenue from our existing clients, add an appropriate number of new clients or adequately control our expenses, we may not be able to return to profitability. We will continue to incur significant operating expenses and capital expenditures as we seek to expand our operations and enhance our capabilities. If we incur expenses at a greater pace than we generate revenues, we could incur additional losses. We may not be able to access on satisfactory terms, or at all, the credit and capital markets as needed to finance a portion of our working capital requirements and support our liquidity needs. We rely upon access to the credit and capital markets as a source of liquidity for the portion of our working capital and debt repayment requirements, infrastructure needs and consideration for acquisitions and strategic investments not provided by cash from operations or investments. We may in the future need to seek additional equity or debt financing. We may not be able to obtain financing on satisfactory terms or at all. If we issue securities to raise capital, our existing stockholders may experience dilution or the new securities may have rights senior to those of our common stock. In addition, the terms of these securities could impose restrictions on our operations. Market disruptions such as those recently experienced in the United States and abroad may increase our cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to access sources of liquidity. If the lenders in our secured revolving bank credit facility are unable to meet their obligations to provide loans to us under the terms of the credit facility, if we are unable to access credit at competitive rates, or at all, if our short-term or long-term borrowing costs dramatically increase, or if we are not able to obtain financing on satisfactory terms or at all, our ability to finance our operations, meet our short-term obligations and implement our operating strategy could be adversely affected which may limit our growth potential and our ability to execute our business strategy. Our substantial leverage and significant debt service obligations could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations and operate our business. We currently have and expect to continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of January 2, 2010, including our outstanding convertible notes, borrowings under our secured revolving bank credit facility and capital leases, we had approximately $205.8 million of indebtedness outstanding with an aggregate principal amount of $240.9 million and we had $90 million of borrowing capacity under the revolving portion of our secured revolving bank credit facility. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. On June 1, 2010, holders of our 3% convertible notes due 2025, referred to as the “3% convertible notes,” are permitted to require us to repurchase the 3% convertible notes for 100% of the principal amount outstanding ($57.5 million as of January 2, 2010) plus accrued and unpaid interest. Although we cannot provide any assurances, we currently expect to have sufficient liquidity from our cash from operating activities, our cash and cash equivalents and/or our secured revolving bank credit facility to fund any such required repurchases. In the event of a default under the notes or the secured revolving bank credit facility, our indebtedness could become immediately due and payable and could adversely affect our financial condition. Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences on us, including: • our debt level increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • we may have difficulty obtaining financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; • we may need to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our debt, which would reduce the amount of money available to finance our operations and other business activities; 12 Table of Contents • our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in our industry in general; and • our substantial amount of debt and the amount we must pay to service our debt obligations could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. The terms of our secured revolving bank credit facility impose financial and operating restrictions on us. We have a secured revolving bank credit facility with a borrowing capacity of $90 million, which, subject to certain conditions, may be increased to $150 million. Our secured revolving bank credit facility contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. These covenants limit or restrict, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness or pre-pay existing indebtedness; • pay dividends or make other distributions in respect of our equity securities; • sell assets, including the capital stock of us and our subsidiaries; • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; • transfer any capital stock of any subsidiary or permit any subsidiary to issue capital stock; • create liens; • make certain loans or investments; and • effect a consolidation or merger or transfer of all or substantially all of our assets. These limitations and restrictions may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. In addition, our ability to borrow under the secured revolving bank credit facility is subject to compliance with covenants. If we breach any of the covenants in our secured revolving bank credit facility, we may be in default under our secured revolving bank credit facility. If we default, the lenders under our secured revolving bank credit facility could declare all borrowings owed to them, including accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. We may become obligated to make earnout payments to the former stockholders and employees of RCI, which may limit our available cash or affect our ability to engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. In connection with the acquisition of RCI, the former stockholders and employees of RCI will be eligible to receive an earnout payable in cash and common stock for each of the 2010, 2011 and 2012 fiscal years with an aggregate value of up to $170 million if certain financial performance targets are achieved. This earnout may limit our cash available for other purposes, limit our ability to engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests, limit our ability to make future acquisitions and may affect our ability to obtain financing. If we fail to manage our exposure to global financial and securities market risk successfully, our operating results and financial condition could be materially impacted. The primary objective of most of our investment activities is to conservatively invest excess cash. To achieve this objective, a majority of our cash and cash equivalents are held in bank deposit accounts and institutional money market mutual funds. If the carrying value of our investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we will be required to write down the value of our investments, which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. We maintain cash and cash equivalents in various institutions at levels exceeding the insurance limits of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, and we purchase investments not guaranteed by the FDIC. Accordingly, if any of these institutions fail, there may be a risk that we will not recover the full principal of our investments or that their liquidity may be diminished. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be directly or 13 Table of Contents indirectly impacted by uncertainty about current economic conditions. We could incur significant realized, unrealized or impairment losses associated with these investments. Our growth and success depend, in part, on our ability to add new clients and maintain and expand our relationships with existing clients. Key elements of our growth strategy include adding new clients, extending the term of existing client agreements and growing the business of our existing clients. Competition for clients is intense, and we may not be able to add new clients or keep existing clients on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to add and launch new clients within the time frames projected by us, we may not be able to achieve our targeted results in the expected periods. A change in the management of our clients could adversely affect our relationship with those clients, including our ability to renew agreements with those clients or enter into amendments to those agreements on favorable terms. If any of our existing clients were to exit the e-commerce channel, declare bankruptcy or suffer other financial difficulties and/or terminate or modify their relationships with us, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If our agreements with existing clients terminate or are terminated, we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. Our success is tied to the offline businesses of our clients. Our success is substantially dependent upon the offline businesses of our clients. Our business and reputation could be adversely affected if any of our clients were to suffer impairment of their offline businesses, whether due to financial difficulties, impairment of their brands, reduction in marketing efforts or reduction in the number of their retail stores. If any of these occurred, consumer traffic and sales through our clients’ Web sites could be negatively affected and clients could choose not to continue to utilize our e-commerce, interactive marketing or liquidation services. Our results of operations could also be negatively impacted if certain of our clients fail to forecast product demand. Under certain of our client agreements, the clients select and buy the inventory for their corresponding Web stores. Under such arrangements, the client establishes product prices and pays us service fees based either on a fixed or variable percentage of revenues, or on the activity performed. As a result, if any of these clients fail to forecast product demand or optimize or maintain access to inventory, our service fees could be adversely affected. A large percentage of our revenue is derived from a small number of our clients’ businesses. For fiscal 2009, sales to customers through one of our client’s businesses accounted for 11.1% of our revenue, and sales through another client’s businesses accounted for 10.2% of our revenue. In fiscal 2009, sales through our top five clients’ businesses accounted for 36.9% of our revenues. For fiscal 2008 and 2007, sales through our top five clients’ businesses accounted for 38.0% and 45.3% of our revenue, respectively. Loss of any of our major clients could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to significant inventory risks. We are exposed to significant inventory risks that may adversely affect our operating results. These inventory risks are a result of seasonality, changes in consumer tastes, changes in consumer demand and spending habits, and other factors. In order to be successful, we and our clients must accurately predict consumer demand and avoid overstocking or understocking products. If we or our clients fail to identify and respond to changes in merchandising and consumer preferences, sales on our or our clients’ e-commerce businesses could suffer and we or our clients could be required to mark down unsold inventory. For the inventory we own, this would depress our profit margins. For the inventory owned by our clients, this would reduce the fees we are able to collect, as our fees are calculated as a percentage of sales. In addition, any failure to keep pace with changes in consumers’ tastes could result in lost opportunities and reduced sales through our or our clients’ e-commerce businesses. Inventory loss and theft, or “shrinkage,” and merchandise returns could also increase in the future. If merchandise returns are significant, or our shrinkage rate increases, our revenues and costs of operations could be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents Our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in making, integrating, and maintaining commercial agreements and other business relationships. Relationships with Manufacturers, Retailers and Other Suppliers. For some of our clients’ e-commerce businesses, we own inventory and primarily purchase products from the manufacturers and distributors of the products. For other of our clients’ e-commerce businesses, our clients own inventory and typically purchase products from the manufacturers and distributors of products or source their own products. If we or our clients are unable to develop and maintain relationships with these manufacturers, distributors or sources, we or our clients may be unable to obtain or continue to carry a sufficient assortment and quantity of quality merchandise on acceptable commercial terms and our and our clients’ e-commerce businesses could be adversely impacted. During fiscal 2009 we purchased 18.2% of the total amount of e-commerce services inventory we purchased from one manufacturer. During fiscal 2008 and 2007, we purchased 16.8% and 18.0%, respectively, of the total amount of e-commerce services inventory we purchased from one manufacturer. While we have a contract with this manufacturer, this manufacturer and other manufacturers, some of which do not have contracts with us, could stop selling products to us or our clients and may ask us or our clients to remove their products or logos from our or our clients’ Web stores. If we or our clients are unable to obtain products directly from manufacturers, retailers or other suppliers, especially popular brand merchandise, we or our clients may not be able to obtain the same or comparable merchandise in a timely manner or on acceptable commercial terms. In addition, retailers and other suppliers may not continue to sell their excess inventory to us on current terms or at all. For example, our suppliers may sell their excess inventory to other traditional or online merchandise liquidators or they may not have excess inventory to sell. Our failure to obtain excess inventory on current terms or at all may limit our growth. Marketing and Promotional Arrangements. We have relationships with search engines, comparison shopping sites, affiliate marketers and other Web sites to provide content, advertising banners and other links to our clients’ e-commerce businesses. We rely on these relationships as significant sources of traffic to our clients’ e-commerce businesses. If we are unable to maintain these relationships or enter into new relationships on acceptable terms, our ability to attract new customers could be harmed. Shipping Vendors. Although we operate our own fulfillment centers, we rely upon multiple third parties for the shipment of our products. We also rely upon certain vendors to ship products directly to consumers. As a result, we are subject to the risks associated with the ability of these vendors and other third parties to successfully and in a timely manner fulfill and ship customer orders and any price increases instituted by these vendors. The failure of these vendors and other third parties to provide these services, or the termination or interruption of these services, could adversely affect the satisfaction of consumers, which could result in reduced sales by our and our clients’ e-commerce businesses. In addition, if third parties were to increase the prices they charge to ship our products, and we passed these increases on to consumers, consumers might choose to buy comparable products locally to avoid shipping charges. Our revenue from our affiliate marketing network may fail to grow or may decline if the reputation of the affiliate marketing network is damaged by unscrupulous activities of network participants. The goal of an affiliate marketing network is to facilitate long-term and mutually beneficial partnerships between publishers/affiliates and advertisers/merchants. Our affiliate network may not continue to be effective in the future due to, among other reasons, publishers/affiliates acting in an unscrupulous manner, including using spam, false advertising, adware, cookie stuffing, forced clicks and other similar methods to drive traffic to advertisers on the network. If publishers/affiliates in the affiliate network utilize unethical practices, this could adversely affect the reputation of the affiliate network and we may experience difficulty in attracting advertisers/merchants to the affiliate network and our revenues could fail to grow or could decline. 15 Table of Contents A disruption in our operations could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any disruption to our operations, including system, network, telecommunications, software or hardware failures, and any damage to our physical locations or off-site data centers, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to the risk of damage or interruption from: • fire, flood, hurricane, tornado, earthquake or other natural disasters; • power losses and interruptions; • Internet, telecommunications or data network failures; • physical and electronic break-ins or security breaches; • computer viruses; • acts of terrorism; and • other similar events. If any of these events occur, it could result in interruptions, delays or cessations in service to customers of our and our clients’ e-commerce businesses and adversely impact our and our clients’ e-commerce businesses. These events could also prevent us from fulfilling orders for our and our clients’ e-commerce businesses. Our clients might seek significant compensation from us for their losses. Even if unsuccessful, this type of claim likely would be time consuming and costly for us to address and damaging to our reputation. Any system failure that causes an interruption of the availability of our or our clients’ e-commerce businesses could reduce the attractiveness of our or our clients’ e-commerce businesses to consumers and result in reduced revenues, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Problems in our fulfillment operations could adversely affect our business. Under some of our client agreements, we maintain the inventory of our clients in our fulfillment centers. We also maintain our own inventory in our fulfillment centers. Our failure to properly handle and protect such inventory could adversely affect our relationship with our clients or our business. In addition, because it is difficult to predict demand, we may not manage our fulfillment centers in an optimal way, which may result in excess or insufficient inventory or warehousing, fulfillment and distribution capacity. We may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment centers. As we continue to add fulfillment and warehouse capability or add new clients with different fulfillment requirements, our fulfillment network becomes increasingly complex and operating it becomes more challenging. If we are unable to adapt to these changes, our business could be adversely affected. Our success is tied to the adequacy of the Internet infrastructure. The success of our businesses and our clients’ e-commerce businesses depends on the continued development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. As currently configured, the Internet may not support changes in technology or continued increases in the number or requirements of users, or there may be delays in the development of necessary modifications to the Internet infrastructure, either of which could result in Internet outages and delays. In addition, problems caused by “viruses,” “worms,” malware and similar programs may harm the performance of the Internet. The amount of traffic on our and our clients’ e-commerce businesses could decline materially if there are Internet outages or delays in the future. We are dependent upon consumers’ willingness to use the Internet to purchase goods. Our long-term future depends heavily upon the general public’s willingness to use the Internet as a means to purchase goods. Consumers may be unwilling to use the Internet to purchase goods for a number of reasons, including lack of access to high-speed communications equipment, congestion of traffic on the Internet, Internet outages or delays, possible disruptions or other damage to users’ computers, increases in the cost of accessing the 16 Table of Contents Internet and security and privacy risks or the perception of such risks. If, for example, consumer confidence in the security of e-commerce businesses is undermined, consumers may cease doing business through the Internet, including through our and our clients’ e-commerce businesses, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. See “We may be liable if third parties misappropriate our customers’ personal information” and “Credit card and payment fraud could adversely affect our business.” We may be liable if third parties misappropriate our customers’ personal information. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect consumer information and prevent security breaches, we cannot assure you that our security measures will prevent security breaches. A compromise of our security systems that results in customers’ personal information being obtained by an unauthorized person could adversely affect customers’ willingness to utilize our and our clients’ e-commerce businesses, our reputation, operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us and fines imposed on us. Additionally, any security breach could require that we expend significant resources to strengthen the security of our information systems and result in a disruption of our online operations. If we do not respond to rapid technological changes, our services and proprietary technology and systems may become obsolete. The Internet and e-commerce industries are characterized by rapid technological change. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop new services and technologies and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. For example, the number of individuals who access the Internet through devices other than a personal computer, such as mobile telephones, personal digital assistants, smart phones, hand held computers, televisions and set-top box devices, has increased dramatically and is likely to increase in the future. As a result, we must continue to adapt our existing technologies for use with these alternative devices. Due to the costs and management time required to introduce new services and enhancements, we may be unable to respond to rapid technological changes in a timely enough manner to avoid our services becoming uncompetitive. Our failure to respond to technological changes could substantially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is heavily dependent on the use of e-mail, and any decrease in the use of e-mail may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on e-mail marketing to drive consumer traffic to our and our clients’ e-commerce businesses. In our e-mail marketing solutions business, we derive revenue from selling our e-mail marketing solutions. E-mail could become a less effective means of communicating with and marketing to consumers for a variety of reasons, including: • problems with technology that make our e-mail communications more difficult for us to deliver and for consumers to read, such as the ability of smart phones or similar communications devices to adequately display our e-mail; • consumers may disregard marketing e-mails due to the large volume of such e-mails they receive; • the inability of filters to effectively screen for unwanted e-mails, resulting in increased levels of junk mail, or “spam,” which may overwhelm consumer’s e-mail accounts; • increased use of social networking sites may result in decreased use of e-mail as a primary means of communication; • growth in the number of e-mails sent or received on a daily or regular basis; • continued security concerns regarding Internet usage in general from viruses, worms or similar problems; and • increased governmental regulation or restrictive policies adopted by Internet service providers, or “ISPs,” that make it more difficult or costly to utilize e-mail for marketing communications. 17 Table of Contents Our ability to contact customers through e-mail could also be harmed and our business may be adversely affected if we mistakenly end up on SPAM lists, or lists of entities that have been involved in sending unwanted, unsolicited e-mails. If any of these were to occur, the traffic to our and our clients’ e-commerce businesses and the demand for our e-mail marketing solutions may decrease, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We and/or our clients may be unable to protect our and their proprietary technology and intellectual property rights. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our and our clients’ intellectual property rights. We may be unable to deter infringement or misappropriation of our software and other proprietary information and material, detect unauthorized use or take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Additionally, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate and third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary rights. Any significant failure on our part to protect our intellectual property could make it easier for our competitors to offer similar services and thereby adversely affect our market opportunities. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources. The failure of our clients to protect their intellectual property rights, including their trademarks and domain names, could also impair our operations. We have been, and may in the future be subject to intellectual property claims or competition or trade practices claims that could be costly and could disrupt our business. Third parties may assert that our business or technologies infringe or misappropriate their intellectual property rights, or that we are engaging in unfair competition or other illegal trade practices. We have been sued for infringing other parties’ patents and have been notified of other potential patent disputes. We could increasingly be subject to patent infringement claims as our services expand in scope and complexity. Patent infringement and other intellectual property claims, whether meritorious or not, are time consuming and costly to resolve, and could require expensive changes in our methods of doing business, could require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, or could require us to cease conducting certain operations. We may be unsuccessful in defending against these claims, which could result in substantial damages, fines or other penalties. Even unsuccessful claims could result in significant legal fees and other expenses, diversion of management’s time and disruptions in our business. Any of these claims could also harm our reputation. We may be subject to product liability claims that could be costly and time-consuming. We sell products sourced by us and products manufactured by third parties, some of which may be defective. If any product that we sell were to cause physical injury or injury to property, the injured party or parties could bring claims against us. We could also be subject to claims that customers of our or our clients’ e-commerce businesses were harmed due to their reliance on our product information, product selection guides, advice or instructions. If a successful claim were brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, it could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even unsuccessful claims could result in the expenditure of funds and management time and adverse publicity and could have a negative impact on our business. Credit card and payment fraud could adversely affect our business. The failure to adequately control fraudulent transactions could increase our expenses and undermine consumer confidence in e-commerce in general and our e-commerce offerings in particular. To date, we have not suffered material losses due to fraud. However, we may in the future suffer losses as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit card data. Under current credit card practices, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions because we do not obtain a cardholder’s signature. See also “We are dependent upon consumers’ willingness to use the Internet to purchase goods.” 18 Table of Contents If one or more states successfully assert that we should collect or should have collected sales or other taxes on the sale of our merchandise, our business could be harmed. The application of sales tax or other similar taxes to interstate and international sales over the Internet is complex and evolving. We currently collect sales or other similar taxes only for goods sold by us and shipped into certain states. One or more local, state or foreign jurisdictions may seek to impose past and future sales tax obligations on us or our clients and other out-of-state companies that engage in e-commerce. If one or more states or any foreign country successfully asserts that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of merchandise through the e-commerce businesses we operate, it could result in substantial tax liability for past sales, decrease future sales and otherwise harm our business. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. We are subject to income, payroll and other taxes in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Moreover, significant judgment is required in evaluating our worldwide provision for income taxes. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to review by applicable tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future tax payments may be limited. As of January 2, 2010, we had approximately $507.3 million of U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforwards, referred to as “NOLs,” available to reduce taxable income in future years. Utilization of the NOLs may be subject to a substantial annual limitation due to ownership change limitations that may have occurred or that could occur in the future, as required by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, referred to as the “Code.” These ownership changes may limit the amount of NOLs that can be utilized annually to offset future taxable income and tax, respectively. In general, an ownership change, as defined by Section 382 of the Code results from a transaction or series of transactions over a three-year period resulting in an ownership change of more than 50 percentage points of the outstanding stock of a company by certain stockholders or public groups. The issuance of securities in connection with our acquisition of RCI and the disposition of our stock by certain selling stockholders, including the selling stockholder named in this prospectus supplement, may have resulted in an ownership change, or could result in an ownership change in the future upon subsequent dispositions of our stock. In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post-ownership change taxable income a corporation may offset with pre-ownership change NOLs. The limitation imposed by Section 382 for any post-change year would be determined by multiplying the value of our stock immediately before the ownership change (subject to certain adjustments) by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years, and the limitation may under certain circumstances be increased by built-in gains which may be present with respect to assets held by us at the time of the ownership change that are recognized in the five-year period after the ownership change. Our use of NOLs arising after the date of an ownership change would not be affected. In addition, the ability to use NOLs will be dependent on our ability to generate taxable income. The NOLs may expire before we generate sufficient taxable income. There were no NOLs that expired in the fiscal years ended December 29, 2007 and January 3, 2009. The maximum NOLs that could expire if not utilized for the year ended January 2, 2010 is approximately $2.0 million. We rely on insurance to mitigate some risks facing our business, and to the extent our insurance does not mitigate the risks facing our business or our insurers are unable to meet their obligations, our operating results may be negatively impacted. We contract for insurance to cover certain potential risks and liabilities. It is possible that we may not be able to get enough insurance to meet our needs, may have to pay very high prices for the coverage we do get, have very high 19 Table of Contents deductibles or may not be able to, or may choose not to, acquire any insurance for certain types of business risk. This could leave us exposed to potential claims. If we were found liable for a significant claim in the future, our operating results could be negatively impacted. Also, to the extent the cost of maintaining insurance increases, our operating results could be negatively affected. Additionally, we are subject to the risk that one or more of our insurers may become insolvent and would be unable to pay a claim that may be made in the future. There can be no assurance that our insurance will be adequate to protect us from pending and future claims. In addition, we are required to maintain insurance coverage under some of our agreements with our clients. If we are not able to or do not maintain the required insurance coverage, we could breach those agreements. Variability in self-insurance liability estimates could significantly impact our financial results. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we began to self-insure for employee medical coverage up to a set retention level, beyond which we maintain excess insurance coverage. We may decide to self-insure for other risks for which we currently purchase insurance. Liabilities are determined using actuarial estimates of the aggregate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of incurred but not reported claims, on an undiscounted basis. Our accruals for insurance reserves reflect certain actuarial assumptions and management judgments, which are subject to a high degree of variability. The variability is caused by factors external to us such as: • historical claims experience; • medical inflation; • legislative changes to benefit levels; • jury verdicts; and • claim settlement patterns. Any significant variation in these factors could cause a material change to our reserves for self-insurance liabilities as well as earnings. Our results could be materially impacted by claims and other expenses related to our self-insured plans if future occurrences and claims differ from our assumptions and historical trends. Existing or future laws or regulations could harm our business or marketing efforts. We are subject to international, federal, state and local laws applicable to businesses in general and to e-commerce specifically. Existing and proposed laws and regulations covering issues such as taxation, pricing, content, distribution, access, quality and delivery of products and services, electronic contracts, intellectual property rights, user privacy and information security may impede the growth of the Internet or e-commerce. Our international operations are also subject to import and export requirements, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. It is not clear how some existing laws apply to the Internet and e-commerce, and some laws that are specific to the Internet and e-commerce, such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003, or the “CAN-SPAM” Act, are only beginning to be interpreted by the courts and their applicability and reach are therefore uncertain. Unfavorable regulations and laws, or interpretations thereof, could diminish the demand for our services, limit the services we can provide, increase our cost of doing business and subject us to penalties. In addition, we utilize “behavioral marketing” (generally, the tracking of a user’s online activities to deliver advertising tailored to his or her interests) in order to drive consumer traffic to our Web sites. The Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, has released a Staff Report with principles to address consumer privacy issues that may arise from behavioral marketing and to encourage industry self-regulation. In the future, it is expected that the FTC or Congress could take further action to limit or further restrict the use of behavioral marketing, and those actions could have an adverse affect on our marketing efforts. 20 Table of Contents Existing federal, state and international laws regulating e-mail marketing practices impose certain obligations on the senders of commercial e-mails and could expose us to liability for violations, decrease the effectiveness of our e-mail marketing solutions, and expose us to financial, criminal and other penalties for non-compliance, which could increase our operating costs. The CAN-SPAM Act establishes certain requirements for commercial e-mail messages and specifies penalties for commercial e-mail that violates the CAN-SPAM Act. The CAN-SPAM Act, among other things, obligates the sender of commercial e-mails to provide recipients with the ability to opt out of receiving future commercial e-mail messages from the sender. As a result, in the event our products and services were to become unavailable or malfunction for any period of time for any reason, it is possible that certain opt-out requests would not be received, or other compliance obligations would be impeded, potentially exposing our clients and us to liability under the CAN-SPAM Act. Non-compliance with the CAN-SPAM Act may carry significant financial penalties. Moreover, penalties under the CAN-SPAM Act may increase if it is determined that e-mail lists provided to us by our clients were obtained using unlawful means. We generally cannot confirm the origins of e-mail lists provided to us by our clients. The CAN-SPAM Act preempts similar state laws directed at commercial e-mail in many instances, but there are some exceptions and liability in connection with e-mail marketing campaigns can arise under state law as well. In addition, many states have more general laws that may apply to commercial e-mail practices. These laws often provide a private right of action and specify damages and other penalties, which in some cases may be more substantial than the penalties provided under the CAN-SPAM Act. In addition, certain foreign countries have enacted laws that regulate e-mail marketing, and some of these laws are more restrictive than U.S. laws. For example, some foreign laws prohibit sending unsolicited e-mail unless the recipient has provided the sender advance consent to receipt of such e-mail, or in other words has “opted-in” to receiving it. If we were found to be in violation of the CAN-SPAM Act, applicable state laws not preempted by the CAN-SPAM Act, or foreign laws regulating the distribution of e-mail, whether as a result of violations by our clients or if we were deemed to be directly subject to and in violation of these requirements, we could be exposed to one or more of the following consequences: • payment of statutory, actual or other damages; • criminal penalties; • actions by state attorneys general; • actions by private citizens or class actions; and • penalties imposed by regulatory authorities of the U.S. government, state governments and foreign governments. Any of these potential areas of exposure would adversely affect our financial performance, could preclude us from doing business in specific jurisdictions, and significantly harm our business. We also may be required to change one or more aspects of the way we operate our business, which could impair our ability to attract and retain clients or increase our operating costs. Loss of our credit card acceptance privileges or changes to credit card association fees, rules, or practices could harm our business. Payment by consumers for purchases through our and our clients’ e-commerce businesses is typically made by credit card or similar payment method. We must rely on banks or payment processors to process these transactions and must pay a fee for this service. From time to time, credit card associations may increase the interchange fees that they charge for each transaction using one of their cards. Our credit card processors have the right to pass any increases in interchange fees on to us as well as increase their own fees for processing. These increased fees would increase our operating costs and reduce our profit margins. We are also required by our processors to comply with credit card association operating rules, and we will reimburse our processors for any fines they are assessed by credit card associations as a result of any rule violations by us. The credit card associations and their member banks set and interpret operating rules related to their credit cards. The credit card associations and/or member banks could adopt new operating rules or re-interpret existing rules that we might find difficult or even impossible to follow. As a 21 Table of Contents result, we could lose our ability to give customers the option of using credit cards to make their payments, which would seriously damage our business. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices or taxation rules or practices may adversely affect our reported financial results. A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices could have a significant effect on our reported results and may even require retroactive or retrospective application. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may cause adverse unexpected revenue and/or expense fluctuations and could adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Our success is dependent upon our executive officers and other key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the contribution of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly Michael G. Rubin, chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer. Our executive officers and key personnel could terminate their employment with us at any time despite any employment agreements we may have with these employees. Due to the competition for highly qualified personnel, we cannot be sure that we will be able to retain or attract executive, managerial or other key personnel. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. We do not intend to obtain key person life insurance for any of our executive officers or key personnel. The loss of any of our key personnel could harm our business if we are unable to effectively replace that person, if we incur significant operating expenses and direct management time to search for a replacement, or if that person should join one of our competitors or otherwise compete with us. We may be unable to hire and retain skilled personnel which could limit our growth. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to identify, attract, retain and motivate skilled personnel. Due to intense competition for these individuals from our competitors and other employers, we may not be able to attract or retain highly qualified personnel in the future. Our failure to attract and retain the experienced and highly trained personnel that are integral to our business may limit our growth. Additionally, we have experienced recent growth in personnel numbers and expect to continue to hire additional personnel in selected areas. Managing this growth requires significant time and resource commitments from our senior management. If we are unable to effectively manage a large and geographically dispersed group of employees or to anticipate our future growth and personnel needs, we may not be able to retain skilled personnel and our business may be adversely affected. There are limitations on the liabilities of our directors and executive officers. Under certain circumstances, we are obligated to indemnify our directors and executive officers against liability and expenses incurred by them in their service to us. Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and under Delaware law, our directors are not liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty, except for liability for breach of a director’s duty of loyalty, acts or omissions by a director not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, dividend payments or stock repurchases that are unlawful under Delaware law or any transaction in which a director has derived an improper personal benefit. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with each of our directors and executive officers. These agreements, among other things, require us to indemnify each director and executive officer for certain expenses, including attorneys’ fees, judgments, fines and settlement amounts, incurred by any such person in any action or proceeding, including any action by us or in our right, arising out of the person’s services as one of our directors or executive officers. The costs associated with providing indemnification under these agreements could be harmful to our business. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have expended significant resources to comply with our obligations under Section 404. If we fail to correct any issues in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal controls 22 Table of Contents over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential stockholders and clients could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business, the trading price of our common stock and our ability to retain our current clients and obtain new clients. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. During fiscal 2009 and 2008, the high and low sales prices of our common stock ranged from $26.00 to $5.69 per share. We expect that the market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: • our performance and prospects; • the performance and prospects of our clients; • fluctuations in our operating results; • the timing and announcement of acquisitions by us or our competitors; • the use of a significant portion of our available cash, issuance of equity securities, incurrence of debt or expenses, assumption of liabilities and incurrence of accounting write-offs in connection with acquisitions; • government regulatory action; • changes in our publicly available guidance of future results of operations; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • the vesting of our equity awards resulting in the sale of large amounts of our common stock during concentrated trading windows; • adverse or unfavorable publicity about us, our services, or our competitors; • investor perception of us and the industries in which we operate; • changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts; • the commencement of material litigation, or an unfavorable judgment, against us; • announcements of restatements of prior period financial results; • terrorist attacks, war and threats of attacks and war; • additions or departure of key personnel; • sales of common stock; and • general financial, economic and other market conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. Future sales of our common stock in the public market or the issuance of our common stock or securities senior to our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We may issue common stock or equity securities senior to our common stock in the future for a number of reasons, including to attract and retain key personnel, to finance our operations and growth strategy, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy outstanding obligations or for other reasons. If we issue securities, our existing stockholders may experience dilution or the new securities may have rights senior to those of our common stock. In addition, the terms of these securities could impose restrictions on our operations. Future sales of our common stock, the perception that such sales could occur or the availability for future sale of shares of our common stock or 23 Table of Contents securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock could adversely affect the market prices of our common stock prevailing from time to time. As of February 10, 2010, we had: • 1,504,070 shares available for new awards under our 2005 plan; • 4,249,884 shares of common stock that were subject to awards granted under the 2005 plan (including 226,081 restricted stock awards which are issued and outstanding and subject to forfeiture under certain conditions); • 3,104,992 shares of common stock that were subject to awards granted under our 1996 plan (in the event of the cancellation, expiration, forfeiture or repurchase of any of these shares, such shares would become available for issuance under the 2005 plan); and • outstanding notes convertible into a maximum of 10,031,156 shares of common stock, subject to adjustment. In addition, in connection with our acquisition of RCI, we could issue shares of common stock with an aggregate value of up to approximately $44.1 million, valued at the time of issuance, to RCI employees in connection with the earnout provisions of the merger agreement. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that the sale, or the availability for sale, of substantial amounts of common stock could have on the market price of our common stock. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate that any cash dividends will be declared or paid in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of our secured revolving bank credit facility prohibit us from declaring or paying dividends on our common stock. As a result, holders of our common stock will not receive a return, if any, on their investment unless they sell their shares of our common stock. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us and this could depress our stock price. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws, stockholder rights agreement and Delaware law may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing transactions that involve any actual or threatened change in control. The rights issued under our stockholder rights agreement may be a substantial deterrent to a person acquiring beneficial ownership of 20% or more of our common stock without the approval of our board of directors. The stockholder rights agreement would cause extreme dilution to such person. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, restricts certain transactions and business combinations between a corporation and a stockholder owning 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock for a period of three years from the date the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder. In addition to discouraging a third party from seeking to acquire control of us, the foregoing provisions could impair the ability of existing stockholders to remove and replace our management and/or our board of directors. Because many investors consider a change of control a desirable path to liquidity, delaying or preventing a change in control of our company may reduce the number of investors interested in our common stock, which could depress our stock price. Holders of our common stock will be subordinated to our secured revolving bank credit facility, convertible notes and other indebtedness. In the event of our liquidation or insolvency, holders of common stock would receive a distribution only after payment in full of all principal and interest due (i) under our secured revolving bank credit facility, (ii) to holders of our convertible notes and (iii) to other creditors. After these payments are made, there may be little or no proceeds to distribute to holders of our common stock. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. We, like other issuers, from time to time receive written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. There are no comments that remain unresolved that we received not less than 180 days before the end of fiscal 2009. 