ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS We operate in rapidly changing industries which makes our operating results difficult to predict. The industries in which we operate are rapidly changing and evolving making our risks, capital needs and operating results difficult to predict. Any failure to adapt our business in response to market changes could adversely affect our operating results. We have recently entered new lines of business which may not be successful. We have recently entered into new lines of business both through acquisitions and through internal initiatives. We have limited experience in these new lines of business, and we will be required to devote substantial resources to them. We cannot assure you that these new lines of business will be successful. Lack of success in these new lines of business could adversely impact our ability to meet our growth and financial projections, and our financial results. We may not achieve the expected benefits of acquisitions. We have acquired a number of companies and we may acquire additional companies. These acquisitions are accompanied by a number of risks, including: • failure of acquired companies to achieve planned results; • unanticipated problems and liabilities of acquired companies, including patent and trademark infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes and tax liabilities; • difficulties resolving indemnification disputes with previous owners; • difficulties in retention and assimilation of the employees of the acquired business; • difficulties in integration of acquired operations, technology, products and/or services to accomplish planned revenue and expense synergies and permit effective management; • diversion of management and employee time and focus; • potential disputes with sellers about the achievement of milestones requiring the payment of contingent consideration; and • adverse impact on morale of employees of acquired companies entitled to contingent consideration if such contingent consideration is not earned. Future acquisitions may also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, use of our cash resources, and incurrence of debt and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. Our failure to be successful in addressing these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions. 6 In addition, valuation of an acquired company could change. We could determine to have declines in fair value of an acquired company that could cause impairments which could adversely impact our financial results. We may not achieve the expected benefits of minority investments. We have purchased minority interests in a number of companies, and we may acquire additional minority interests. Ordinarily, these minority interests are purchased in connection with our entry into a commercial transaction with the investment target. These transactions are accompanied by a number of risks which could adversely impact our financial results, including: • failure of the commercial agreements to achieve planned results; • disputes with shareholders of investment targets, which could interfere with our commercial agreements with the investment targets; • our minority interest in Intershop Communications AG, is governed by German law, which could subject us to liability for certain disadvantages to Intershop if we were deemed to be in control of Intershop; and • valuations supporting our acquisitions and investments could change. We could determine that such valuations have experienced impairments or other-than-temporary declines in fair value which could adversely impact our financial results. Our failure to manage growth and diversification of our business could harm us. We are continuing our efforts to grow and diversify our business both in the United States and internationally. This has placed, and will continue to place, demands on our personnel, as well as on our operational and financial infrastructure. To effectively manage our growth initiatives, we will need to continue to expand, improve and adapt our personnel, operations, infrastructure and our financial and information management systems and continue to implement adequate controls. These enhancements and improvements are likely to be complex and could require significant operating expenses, capital expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. We may also have to expand our management team by recruiting and employing additional experienced executives and employees. If we are unable to adapt our systems and business, put adequate controls in place and expand our management team in a timely manner to accommodate our growth, our business may be adversely affected. We plan to continue to expand our business internationally which may cause our business to become increasingly susceptible to numerous international business risks and challenges that could adversely affect our business. We have limited experience in international operations. To date, substantially all of our net revenues, income from operations and assets have been generated from and located in the United States. Our growth strategy involves expanding our business internationally, and since 2006, we have completed acquisitions of companies in Spain and the United Kingdom, purchased a minority interest in a company in Germany, opened a fulfillment center in Canada and opened offices in Japan and Singapore in support of our GeC and GMS segments. However, we have limited experience in international business, and we cannot assure you that our international expansion strategy will be successful. Our experience in the United States may not be relevant to our ability to expand internationally. In addition, our lack of a track record outside the United States increases our execution risks and the risks described below. • substantial competition with local companies; • compliance with international legal and regulatory requirements and tariffs (see also “— Existing or future laws or regulations could harm our business or marketing efforts,” below); • managing fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; • potential adverse tax consequences; 7 • uncertain political and economic climates; • potentially higher incidence of fraud; • different employer/employee relationships; • cultural ambivalence toward, or non-acceptance of, e-commerce businesses; • language barriers; • price controls or other restrictions on foreign currency; and • difficulties in obtaining export and import licenses and compliance with applicable export controls. Some of these factors may cause our international costs of doing business to exceed our comparable domestic costs. Any negative impact from our international business efforts could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition as a whole. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Our business is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. In our GeC segment, we face competition from technology and service providers which supply one or more components of an e-commerce solution and other providers of integrated e-commerce solutions. Low barriers to entry into the e-commerce solutions market may increase the number of competitors our e-commerce business may face. Our GeC segment has competitors with longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and/or greater financial, marketing and other resources. Those competitors may be able to devote more resources to technology development and marketing. In our GMS segment, we face competition from other providers of interactive marketing services, and in-house marketing departments. Low barriers to entry in the interactive marketing industry may increase the number of competitors our GMS business may face. Our GMS segment has competitors with longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and/or greater financial, marketing and other resources who are able to devote more resources to technology development and marketing. In our consumer engagement segment, we face competition from private sale websites with similar formats to ours, other e-commerce websites and the offline businesses of retailers and manufacturers. New private sale websites may be created and other companies may develop services that compete with our online private sale channel. If our competitors are able to secure merchandise on more favorable terms, our consumer engagement business could be harmed. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. In addition, competition may intensify as our competitors enter into business combinations or alliances or raise additional capital and established companies in other market segments or geographic markets expand into our market segments or geographic markets. If we cannot compete successfully against our competitors, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. Our business is highly seasonal; a weak fourth quarter could have a material adverse effect on our operating results for the year. Our fourth fiscal quarter has accounted for and is expected to continue to account for a disproportionate amount of our total annual revenues because consumers increase their purchases and businesses increase their advertising to consumers during the fourth quarter holiday season. For fiscal 2010, 40% of our annual net revenues were generated in our fourth fiscal quarter. For fiscal years 2009 and 2008, 43% and 41% of our annual net revenues were generated in our fourth fiscal quarter, respectively. Since fiscal 1999, we have not generated net income in any fiscal quarter other than a fourth fiscal quarter. Because our fourth quarter accounts for a larger percentage of our annual revenue, any negative impact on our business during the fourth quarter will have a disproportionate adverse affect on our results of operations for the full year. 8 General economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. General economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The direction and relative strength of the global economy as well as the local economies in which we compete continue to be uncertain and any weakness in consumer spending may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Recent softness in the real estate and mortgage markets, volatility in fuel and other energy costs, deteriorating economic conditions in different countries, difficulties in the financial services sector and credit markets, high levels of unemployment and other macro-economic factors have created consumer uncertainty about current economic conditions which could adversely affect consumer confidence and behavior in ways that adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have an accumulated deficit and may incur additional losses. Since 2001, we have recorded net losses in all but two of our fiscal years. As of the end of fiscal 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $202.1 million. If we fail to generate sufficient revenue and/or adequately control our expenses, we may not be able to return to profitability. We will continue to incur significant operating expenses and capital expenditures as we seek to expand our operations and enhance our capabilities. We may not be able to access on satisfactory terms, or at all, the credit and capital markets as needed to finance our growth plans, working capital requirements and liquidity needs. We rely upon access to the credit and capital markets to fund our growth plans and working capital requirements. We may in the future need to seek additional equity or debt financing. We may not be able to obtain financing on satisfactory terms or at all and the terms of these securities could impose restrictions on our operations. Market disruptions such as those recently experienced in the United States and abroad may increase our cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to access sources of liquidity. If the lenders in our secured revolving bank credit facility are unable to meet their obligations to provide loans to us under the terms of the credit facility, if we are unable to access credit at competitive rates, or at all, if our short-term or long-term borrowing costs dramatically increase, or if we are not able to obtain financing on satisfactory terms or at all, our ability to finance our operations, meet our short-term obligations and implement our operating strategy could be adversely affected which may limit our growth potential and our ability to execute our business strategy. The terms of our secured revolving bank credit facility impose financial and operating restrictions on us. We have a secured revolving bank credit facility with a borrowing capacity of $150 million (the “Existing Credit Facility”). We have entered into a new credit agreement providing for a $285 million revolving credit facility and a $115 million term loan facility, with the option to increase the commitments under these facilities by up to an additional $50 million to a total of $450 million (the “New Credit Facility”). The New Credit Facility becomes effective if our acquisition of Fanatics, Inc. closes on or before May 10, 2011. The Existing Credit Facility and the New Credit Facility contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. These covenants limit or restrict, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness or pre-pay or repurchase existing indebtedness; • pay dividends or make other distributions in respect of, including repurchases of, our equity securities; • sell assets, including the capital stock of us and our subsidiaries; • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; • transfer any capital stock of any subsidiary or permit any subsidiary to issue capital stock; • create liens; • make certain loans or investments; and • effect a consolidation or merger or transfer of all or substantially all of our assets. 9 These limitations and restrictions may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. In addition, our ability to borrow under the secured revolving bank credit facility is subject to compliance with covenants. If we breach any of the covenants in our secured revolving bank credit facility, we may be in default under our secured revolving bank credit facility. If we default, the lenders under our secured revolving bank credit facility could declare all borrowings owed to them, including accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. Our leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations and operate our business. We currently have and expect to continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of January 1, 2011, including our outstanding convertible notes, borrowings under our Existing Credit Facility, capital leases, and the mortgage on our headquarters building we had approximately $166.8 million of outstanding indebtedness reflected on our balance sheet with an aggregate principal amount of $193.4 million, and we had $148.2 million of borrowing capacity under the revolving portion of our Existing Credit Facility. If the New Credit Facility becomes effective, we will have substantially greater borrowing capacity under the New Credit Facility. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. In the event of a default under any of our indebtedness, our indebtedness could become immediately due and payable and could adversely affect our financial condition. Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences, including: • our debt level increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • we may have difficulty obtaining financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; • we may need to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our debt, which would reduce the amount of money available to finance our operations and other business activities; • our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in our industry in general; and • our substantial amount of debt and the amount we must pay to service our debt obligations could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. We may become obligated to make earnout payments to the former stockholders and employees of companies we have acquired, which may limit our available cash or affect our ability to engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. As of January 1, 2011, in connection with several recent acquisitions, former stockholders and employees of companies we have acquired will be eligible to receive earnout payments, based on the performance of the acquired companies, payable in cash and/or common stock in fiscal years 2011 - 2016 with an aggregate value of up to $208.4 million if certain financial performance targets are achieved. These earnout obligations may limit our cash available for other purposes, limit our ability to engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests, limit our ability to make future acquisitions, cause dilution to existing stockholders and may affect our ability to obtain financing. We have entered into long-term incentive plans with certain of our employees and executives which obligate us to make payments to these employees and executives in future years. We have entered into long-term incentive plans with certain of our employees and executives which obligate us to make payments to certain employees based on the performance of the business for which the employee is responsible. Amounts due under these incentive plans are payable in cash and/or common stock in fiscal years 2012 — 2015 if certain financial performance targets are achieved. These incentive plan obligations may limit our cash available for other purposes, limit our ability to engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests, limit our ability to make future acquisitions, cause dilution to existing stockholders and may affect our 10 ability to obtain financing. Payments under these incentive plans are based on the performance of our segments or business units and may result in substantial payments based on the performance of these segments or business units even if the financial performance of our company as a whole does not meet our publically announced guidance or market expectations. If we fail to protect our cash and cash equivalents, manage our exposure to global financial and securities market risk successfully, our operating results and financial condition could be materially impacted. The primary objective of our cash management strategy is to conservatively invest excess cash. To achieve this objective, a majority of our cash and cash equivalents are held in bank deposit accounts and institutional money market mutual funds. If the carrying value of our cash investments exceeds fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we will be required to write down the value of our investments, which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. We maintain cash and cash equivalents in various institutions at levels exceeding the insurance limits of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, and we purchase investments not guaranteed by the FDIC. Accordingly, if any of these institutions fail, there may be a risk that we will not recover the full principal of our investments or that their liquidity may be diminished. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be directly or indirectly impacted by uncertainty about current economic conditions. We could incur significant realized, unrealized or impairment losses associated with these investments. Our growth and success depend, in part, on our ability to add new clients, our ability to maintain and expand our relationships with existing clients, and the financial condition of our clients. Key elements of our growth strategy include adding new clients and extending the term of existing client agreements. Competition for clients is intense, and we may not be able to add new clients or keep existing clients on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to add new clients within the time frames projected by us, we may not be able to achieve our targeted results in the expected periods. A change in the management of our clients could adversely affect our relationship with those clients, including our ability to renew agreements with those clients or enter into amendments to those agreements on favorable terms. Many of our client contracts contain service level commitments. If we are unable to meet these commitments, our relationships with our clients could be damaged, client rights to terminate their contracts with us may be triggered, and financial penalty provisions of the contracts may be triggered. If any of our existing clients were to exit the business we provide services to, declare bankruptcy, suffer other financial difficulties, fail to pay amounts owed to us, and/or terminate or modify their relationships with us, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If our agreements with existing clients expire or are terminated, we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. Our GeC segment is tied to the online growth of our clients and impacted by the offline businesses of our clients. A portion our revenues is derived from the value of e-commerce transactions that flow through our businesses and depend upon the continued growth of the online businesses of our clients. In addition, our GeC business is substantially impacted by the offline businesses of our clients. The impairment of the offline business of a client, whether due to financial difficulties, impairment of their brands, reduction in marketing efforts or reduction in the number of their retail stores, could adversely affect our GeC business. If any of these occurred, consumer traffic and sales through our clients’ websites could be negatively affected and clients could choose not to continue to utilize our e-commerce services. Our results of operations could also be negatively impacted if certain of our clients fail to accurately forecast product demand. Under certain of our client agreements, the clients select and buy the inventory for their corresponding webstores. Under such arrangements, the client establishes product prices and pays us service fees based either on a fixed or variable percentage of revenues, or on the activity performed. As a result, if any of these clients fail to forecast product demand or optimize or maintain access to inventory, our service fees could be adversely affected. 11 A large percentage of our revenue is derived from our relationships with a small number of our clients. For fiscal 2008, 2009 and 2010, we did not make sales to any client or customer in an amount equal to 10% or more of our consolidated revenues. However, in fiscal 2009 and 2008, sales to one client and to customers through that client’s business accounted for 11% and 12% of our revenue, respectively, and sales to another client and to customers through that client’s business accounted for 10% and 12% of our revenue, respectively. In fiscal 2010 there were no clients for which sales to such client and to customers through such client’s business accounted for 10% or more of our revenue. In fiscal 2010, sales through our top five clients’ businesses accounted for 31% of our revenues. For fiscal years 2009 and 2008, sales through our top five clients’ businesses accounted for 37% and 38% of our revenue, respectively. The loss of any of our major clients could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to significant inventory risks. We are exposed to significant inventory risks that may adversely affect our operating results. These inventory risks are a result of seasonality, changes in consumer tastes, changes in consumer demand and spending habits, and other factors. In order to be successful in our owned inventory e-commerce and consumer engagements businesses, we must accurately predict consumer demand and avoid overstocking or understocking products. If we fail to identify and respond to changes in merchandising and consumer preferences, sales on our owned inventory e-commerce and consumer engagement businesses could suffer and we could be required to mark down unsold inventory, which would depress our profit margins. In addition, any failure to keep pace with changes in consumers’ tastes could result in lost opportunities and reduced sales through our owned inventory e-commerce and consumer engagement businesses. If we are unable to liquidate our inventory through our primary channels, then we may need to liquidate merchandise below cost through third party channels. Inventory loss and theft, or “shrinkage,” and merchandise returns could also increase in the future. If merchandise returns are significant, or our shrinkage rate increases, our revenues and costs of operations could be adversely affected. Our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in making, integrating, and maintaining commercial agreements and other business relationships. Relationships with Manufacturers, Retailers and Other Suppliers In our GeC and Consumer Engagement businesses, we own inventory and primarily purchase products from the manufacturers and distributors of the products. If we are unable to develop and maintain relationships with these manufacturers, distributors or sources, we may be unable to obtain or continue to carry a sufficient assortment and quantity of quality merchandise on acceptable commercial terms and our e-commerce businesses could be adversely impacted. We purchased 15% and 18% of the total amount of inventory we purchased from the same manufacturer during fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively. During fiscal year 2008, we purchased 17% and 13% of the total amount of inventory we purchased from two manufacturers. While we have contracts with these manufacturers, these manufacturers and other manufacturers, some of which do not have contracts with us, could stop selling products to us and may ask us to remove their products or logos from our or our clients’ webstores. If we are unable to obtain products directly from manufacturers, retailers or other suppliers, especially popular brand merchandise, we may not be able to obtain the same or comparable merchandise in a timely manner or on acceptable commercial terms. We purchase licensed sports merchandise from suppliers with licensing agreements with professional sports leagues and other licensors. Some of these suppliers have exclusive rights to manufacture this merchandise. We are dependent on these exclusive suppliers for the availability of this merchandise. If for any reason these suppliers do not, are unwilling to, or are unable to, sell and deliver quality merchandise to us in a timely fashion, our sales of licensed sports merchandise could be adversely affected. 12 Our consumer engagement business depends on purchasing increasing volumes of inventory from brands, retailers and other suppliers. These brands, retailers and other suppliers may not continue to sell their inventory to us on current terms or at all. For example, our suppliers may sell their inventory to other traditional or online retailers or they may not have inventory to sell. Our failure to obtain inventory on current terms or at all may limit the growth of our consumer engagement business. Marketing and Promotional Arrangements We have relationships with search engines, comparison shopping sites, affiliate marketers, online advertising networks, and other websites to provide content, advertising banners and other links to our clients’ e-commerce businesses. Our GeC business relies on these relationships as significant sources of traffic to our clients’ e-commerce businesses. If we are unable to maintain these relationships or enter into new relationships on acceptable terms, our ability to attract new customers could be harmed. Shipping Vendors We rely upon multiple third parties to ship the products sold in our GeC and consumer engagement businesses. We also rely upon certain drop-ship vendors to ship products directly to consumers. As a result, we are subject to the risks associated with the ability of these vendors and other third parties to successfully and in a timely manner fulfill and ship customer orders and any price increases, including as a result of fuel surcharges, instituted by these vendors. The failure of these vendors and other third parties to provide these services, or the termination or interruption of these services, could adversely affect the satisfaction of consumers, which could result in reduced sales by our GeC and consumer engagement businesses. Payment Processors Consumers typically pay for purchases through webstores in our GeC businesses and through our consumer engagement business by credit card or similar payment method. We must rely on banks or payment processors to process these transactions and must pay a fee for this service. From time to time, credit card associations may increase the interchange fees that they charge for each transaction using one of their cards. Our credit card processors have the right to pass any increases in interchange fees on to us as well as increase their own fees for processing. These increased fees would increase our operating costs and reduce our profit margins. We are also required by our processors to comply with credit card association operating rules, and we may be required to reimburse our processors for any fines they are assessed by credit card associations as a result of any rule violations by us. The credit card associations and their member banks set and interpret operating rules related to their credit cards. The credit card associations and/or member banks could adopt new operating rules or re-interpret existing rules that we might find difficult or even impossible to follow. As a result, we could lose our ability to give customers the option of using credit cards to make their payments, which would seriously damage our business. We also accept alternative payments, including Paypal, Bill Me Later, Google checkout, gift cards and gift certificates, and open invoices. If we were to lose our ability to give customers the option to use these payment methods our business and financial results could be could be adversely affected. Telecommunications and Data Providers We rely on third parties to provide telecommunications and data links upon which our businesses are dependant. Any disruption in these services could cause substantial harm to our business and our financial results. Our licensed sports business depends on continued customer interest in professional sports leagues and could be adversely affected by any decrease in fan interest in the professional sports leagues, their teams or their players. Our business derives substantial revenues from the sale of sports products branded with the names and logos of professional sports leagues, their teams and/or their players. Any decrease in fan interest in professional sports leagues, their teams or their players, including as a result of labor conflicts (and resulting lock-outs, strikes, or 13 cancelled games or seasons), player trades, player injuries, the lack of success of popular players or teams, or logo changes, could adversely affect our revenues and financial results. A disruption at any of our facilities could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any disruption at any of our facilities, including system, network, telecommunications, software or hardware failures, any damage to our physical locations or off-site data centers, or our ability to access our locations for any reason, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to the risk of damage or interruption from: • fire, flood, hurricane, tornado, earthquake or other natural disasters; • power losses and interruptions; • Internet, telecommunications or data network failures; • physical and electronic break-ins or security breaches; • computer viruses; • acts of terrorism; • outbreak of disease; and • other similar events. If any of these events occur, it could result in interruptions, delays or cessations in our businesses. Our clients might seek significant compensation from us for their losses. Even if unsuccessful, this type of claim likely would be time consuming and costly for us to address and damaging to our reputation. Our success is tied to the adequacy of the Internet infrastructure. The success of our GeC, GMS and consumer engagement businesses depends on the continued development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. As currently configured, the Internet may not support changes in technology or continued increases in the number or requirements of users, or there may be delays in the development of necessary modifications to the Internet infrastructure, either of which could result in Internet outages and delays. In addition, problems caused by “viruses,” “worms,” malware and similar programs and/or cyber terrorism may harm the performance of the Internet or our systems. The amount of traffic on our and our clients’ e-commerce businesses could decline materially if there are Internet outages or delays in the future. We are dependent upon consumers’ willingness to use the Internet for commerce. Our success depends upon the general public’s continued willingness to use the Internet as a means to purchase goods, communicate, and conduct and research commercial transactions. If consumers became unwilling or less willing to use the Internet for communications or commerce for any reason, including lack of access to high-speed communications equipment, congestion of traffic on the Internet, Internet outages or delays, disruptions or other damage to users’ computers, increases in the cost of accessing the Internet and security and privacy risks or the perception of such risks our businesses would suffer, such decreased use of the internet for communications and commerce would have an adverse impact on our businesses. We may be liable if third parties misappropriate our or our clients’ customers’ personal information from our network. We cannot be assured that our security measures will prevent security breaches. A compromise of our security systems that results in customers’ personal information being obtained by an unauthorized person could result in litigation against us and fines imposed on us, and could adversely affect customers’ willingness to utilize our and our clients’ businesses, our reputation, operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 14 Additionally, any security breach could require that we expend significant resources to strengthen the security of our information systems and result in a disruption of our online operations. If we do not respond to rapid technological changes, our services and proprietary technology and systems may become obsolete. The industries in which we participate are characterized by rapid technological change. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop new services and technologies and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. We are in the process of enhancing and unbundling the components of our e-commerce and payments platform. If this technology project requires higher than expected expenses, the success of client migrations to the enhanced platform are not accomplished as planned, the enhanced platform is not accepted by the market and/or we fail to meet client commitments and services level agreements, we could be subject to substantial penalties under our agreements with our clients and/or our relationships with our clients, our business and our results of operations and financial condition could be substantially harmed. In addition, the number of individuals who access the Internet through devices other than a personal computer, such as mobile telephones, personal digital assistants, smart phones, hand held computers, televisions and set-top box devices, has increased dramatically and is likely to increase in the future. As a result, we must continue to adapt our existing technologies for use with these alternative devices. Substantial costs and management time can be required to introduce new services and enhancements, and we may be unable to respond to rapid technological changes in a timely enough manner to avoid our services becoming uncompetitive. Our failure to respond to technological changes could substantially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is dependent on the use of e-mail, and any decrease in the use of e-mail or our ability to use e-mail may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In our e-mail marketing solutions business, we derive revenue from selling our e-mail marketing solutions. We and our clients also rely on e-mail marketing to drive consumer traffic to the webstores in our GeC businesses. E-mail could become a less effective means of communicating with and marketing to consumers for a variety of reasons, including: • problems with technology that make our e-mail communications more difficult for us to deliver and for consumers to read, such as the ability of smart phones or similar communications devices to adequately display our e-mail; • consumers may disregard marketing e-mails due to the large volume of such e-mails they receive; • the inability of filters to effectively screen for unwanted e-mails, resulting in increased levels of junk mail, or “SPAM,” which may overwhelm consumer’s e-mail accounts; • increased use of social networking sites may result in decreased use of e-mail as a primary means of communication; • continued security concerns regarding Internet usage in general from viruses, worms or similar problems; and • increased governmental regulation or restrictive policies adopted by Internet service providers, or “ISPs,” that make it more difficult or costly to utilize e-mail for marketing communications. Our ability to contact customers through e-mail could also be harmed and our business may be adversely affected if we end up on SPAM lists, or lists of entities that have been involved in sending unwanted, unsolicited e-mails. If any of these were to occur, the traffic to our and our clients’ e-commerce businesses and the demand for our e-mail marketing solutions may decrease, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 15 We may be unable to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our intellectual property rights. We may be unable to deter infringement or misappropriation of our software, trademarks, business processes and other proprietary information and material, detect unauthorized use or take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate and third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary rights. Any significant failure on our part to protect our intellectual property could make it easier for our competitors to offer similar services and thereby adversely affect our market opportunities. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources. We have been, and may in the future be subject to intellectual property claims or competition or trade practices claims that could be costly and could disrupt our business. Third parties may assert that our businesses or technologies infringe or misappropriate their intellectual property rights, or that we are engaging in unfair competition or other illegal trade practices. We have been sued for infringing other parties’ patents and have been notified of other potential patent disputes. We could increasingly be subject to patent infringement claims as our services expand in scope and complexity. Patent infringement and other intellectual property claims, whether meritorious or not, are time consuming and costly to resolve, and could require expensive changes in our methods of doing business, could require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, or could require us to cease conducting certain operations. We may be unsuccessful in defending against these claims, which could result in substantial damages, fines or other penalties. Even unsuccessful claims could result in significant legal fees and other expenses, diversion of management’s time and disruptions in our business. Any of these claims could also harm our reputation. We may be subject to product liability claims that could be costly and time-consuming. We sell products sourced by us and products manufactured by third parties which could expose us to product liability claims if any of these products are alleged to be defective. If any product that we sell were to cause physical injury or injury to property, the injured party or parties could bring claims against us. We could also be subject to claims that customers of our GeC or consumer engagement businesses were harmed due to their reliance on our product information, product selection guides, advice or instructions. If a successful claim were brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, it could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even unsuccessful claims could result in the expenditure of funds and management time and adverse publicity and could have a negative impact on our business. Credit card and payment fraud could adversely affect our business. The failure to adequately control fraudulent transactions on our GeC, consumer engagement and GMS platforms could increase our expenses. Under current credit card practices, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions because we do not obtain a cardholder’s signature. We may in the future suffer losses as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit card data. If one or more states successfully assert that we should collect or should have collected sales or other taxes on the sale of our merchandise, our business could be harmed. The application of sales tax or other similar taxes to interstate and international sales over the Internet is complex and evolving. We currently collect sales or other similar taxes only for goods we own, sell and ship into certain states. One or more local, state or foreign jurisdictions may seek to impose past and future sales tax obligations on us or other out-of-state companies that engage in e-commerce. If one or more states or any foreign country successfully asserts that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of merchandise for which we are not currently collecting taxes, it could result in substantial tax liability for past sales, decrease future sales and otherwise harm our business. 16 We may have exposure in excess of our recorded tax liabilities. We are subject to income, payroll and other taxes in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Moreover, significant judgment is required in evaluating our worldwide provision for income taxes. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to review by applicable tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. Any change in existing taxation rules or practices could result in increased tax liabilities and adversely affect our financial results. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future tax payments may be limited. As of January 1, 2011, we had estimated available net operating loss carry-forwards (“NOLs”) of $216.2 million for federal income tax purposes that expire between 2011 and 2030. Our ability to use these NOLs will be dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income and may expire before we generate sufficient taxable income. Through 2010, approximately $3.1 million of these NOLs has expired unutilized. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 382”) imposes limitations on a corporation’s ability to utilize NOLs if it experiences an “ownership change.” In general terms, an ownership change may result from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. In the event of an ownership change, utilization of our NOLs would be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382. Any unused NOLs in excess of the annual limitation may be carried over to later years. We rely on insurance to mitigate some risks facing our business, and to the extent our insurance does not mitigate the risks facing our business or our insurers are unable to meet their obligations, our operating results may be negatively impacted. We contract for insurance to cover certain potential risks and liabilities. It is possible that we may not be able to get enough insurance to meet our needs, may have to pay very high prices for the coverage we do get, have very high deductibles or may not be able to, or may choose not to, acquire any insurance for certain types of business risk. This could leave us exposed to potential claims. If we were found liable for a significant claim in the future, our operating results could be negatively impacted. Also, to the extent the cost of maintaining insurance increases, our operating results could be negatively affected. Additionally, we are subject to the risk that one or more of our insurers may become insolvent and would be unable to pay a claim that may be made in the future. There can be no assurance that our insurance will be adequate to protect us from pending and future claims. In addition, we are required to maintain insurance coverage under some of our agreements with our clients. If we are not able to or do not maintain the required insurance coverage, we could breach those agreements. Variability in self-insurance liability estimates could significantly impact our financial results. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we began to self-insure for employee medical coverage for certain of our businesses up to a set retention level, beyond which we maintain excess insurance coverage. We may decide to self-insure for employee medical coverage for other businesses or for other risks for which we currently purchase insurance. Liabilities are determined using actuarial estimates of the aggregate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of incurred but not reported claims, on an undiscounted basis. Our accruals for insurance reserves reflect certain actuarial assumptions and management judgments, which are subject to a high degree of variability. The variability is caused by factors external to us such as: • historical claims experience; • medical inflation; • legislative changes to benefit levels; • jury verdicts; and • claim settlement patterns. 17 Any significant variation in these factors could cause a material change to our reserves for self-insurance liabilities as well as earnings. Our results could be materially impacted by claims and other expenses related to our self-insured plans if future occurrences and claims differ from our assumptions and historical trends. Existing or future laws or regulations could harm our business. We are subject to international, federal, state and local laws applicable to businesses in general and applicable to e-commerce and marketing services specifically. Existing and proposed laws and regulations covering issues such as taxation, pricing, content, distribution, access, quality and delivery of products and services, electronic contracts, intellectual property rights, user privacy and information security may impede the growth of our businesses. Our international operations are also subject to import and export requirements, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. It is not clear how some existing laws apply to the Internet and e-commerce, and some laws that are specific to the Internet and e-commerce, such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003, or the “CAN-SPAM” Act, are only beginning to be interpreted by the courts and their applicability and reach are therefore uncertain. In addition, the potential scope of operation and enforcement of the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with respect to those handling consumer credit card transactions also is unclear at present. Unfavorable regulations and laws, or interpretations thereof, could diminish the demand for our services, limit the services we can provide, increase our cost of doing business and subject us to penalties. In addition, our businesses utilize “behavioral marketing” (generally, the tracking of a user’s online activities) to deliver relevant content to web users. The Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, has released a Staff Report with principles to address consumer privacy issues that may arise from behavioral marketing and to encourage industry self-regulation. The FTC also has issued a Staff Report in December 2010 on consumer privacy policy, proposing a set of self-regulatory best practices and several policy recommendations for consideration by Congress, including institution of “do not track” mechanisms. In the future, regulations or legislation could, if enacted, prohibit the use of certain technologies that track individuals’ activities on the internet. Such laws and regulations could restrict our ability to collect and use page viewing data, and personal information, which may reduce demand for our GMS and/or reduce demand for the webstores using our GeC business. If our interactive marketing products are perceived to cause or are otherwise unfavorably associated with invasions of privacy, whether or not illegal, we or our clients may be subject to public criticism. Existing and potential future privacy laws and increasing public concerns regarding data collection, privacy and security may cause some internet users to be less likely to visit our client’s websites or otherwise interact with them. If enough consumers choose not to visit our customers’ websites or otherwise interact with them, our customers could stop using our interactive marketing products and the growth of these businesses could be harmed or it may not be possible to continue the current business models for these products. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices may adversely affect our reported financial results. A change in accounting standards or practices could have a significant effect on our reported results and may even require retroactive or retrospective application. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may cause adverse unexpected revenue and/or expense fluctuations and could adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Our success is dependent upon our executive officers and other key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the contribution of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly Michael G. Rubin, our chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer. Our executive officers and key personnel could terminate their employment with us at any time despite any employment agreements we may have with these employees. Due to the competition for highly qualified personnel, we cannot be sure that we will be able to retain or attract executive, managerial or other key personnel. In addition, key personnel 18 of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. We do not maintain and do not intend to obtain key person life insurance for any of our executive officers or key personnel. The loss of any of our key personnel could harm our business if we are unable to effectively replace that person, if we incur significant operating expenses and direct management time to search for a replacement, or if that person should join one of our competitors or otherwise compete with us. We may be unable to hire and retain skilled personnel which could limit our growth. Our success depends on our ability to continue to identify, attract, retain and motivate skilled personnel. Due to intense competition for these individuals from our competitors and other employers, we may not be able to attract or retain highly qualified personnel in the future. Our failure to attract and retain the experienced and highly trained personnel that are integral to our businesses may limit our growth. Additionally, we have experienced recent growth in personnel numbers and expect to continue to hire additional personnel in selected areas. Managing this growth requires significant time and resource commitments from our senior management. If we are unable to effectively manage a large and geographically dispersed group of employees or to anticipate our future growth and personnel needs, we may not be able to retain skilled personnel and our business may be adversely affected. There are limitations on the liabilities of our directors and executive officers. Under certain circumstances, we are obligated to indemnify our directors and executive officers against liability and expenses incurred by them in their service to us. Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and under Delaware law, our directors are not liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty, except for liability for breach of a director’s duty of loyalty, acts or omissions by a director not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, dividend payments or stock repurchases that are unlawful under Delaware law or any transaction in which a director has derived an improper personal benefit. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with each of our directors and executive officers. These agreements, among other things, require us to indemnify each director and executive officer for certain expenses, including attorneys’ fees, judgments, fines and settlement amounts, incurred by any such person in any action or proceeding, including any action by us or in our right, arising out of the person’s services as one of our directors or executive officers. The costs associated with providing indemnification under these agreements could be harmful to our business. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have expended significant resources to comply with our obligations under Section 404. If we fail to correct any issues in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal controls and update our controls based on changes to our business over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential stockholders and clients could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business, the trading price of our common stock and our ability to retain our current clients and obtain new clients. The price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. Fluctuations in our stock price have been and may be as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: our performance and prospects; fluctuations in our operating results; changes in our publicly available guidance of future results of operations; investor perception of us and the industries in which we operate; and general financial, economic and other market conditions. In addition, broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. Declines in our stock price could have a material adverse impact on investor confidence and employee retention. 19 Future sales of our common stock in the public market or the issuance of our common stock or securities senior to our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We may issue common stock or equity securities senior to our common stock in the future for a number of reasons, including to attract and retain key personnel or outside consultants, to finance our operations and growth strategy, including possible acquisitions, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy outstanding obligations, including obligations under earnout agreements and long term incentive plans, or for other reasons. If we issue securities, our existing stockholders may experience dilution or the new securities may have rights senior to those of our common stock. In addition, the terms of these securities could impose restrictions on our operations. Future sales of our common stock, the perception that such sales could occur or the availability for future sale of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock could adversely affect the market prices of our common stock prevailing from time to time. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that the sale, or the availability for sale, of substantial amounts of common stock could have on the market price of our common stock. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate that any cash dividends will be declared or paid in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of our Existing Credit Facility and New Credit Facility restrict our ability to declare or pay dividends on our common stock. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us and this could depress our stock price. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws, stockholder rights agreement and Delaware law may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing transactions that involve any actual or threatened change in control. The rights issued under our stockholder rights agreement may be a substantial deterrent to a person acquiring beneficial ownership of 20% or more of our common stock without the approval of our board of directors. The stockholder rights agreement would cause extreme dilution to such person. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, restricts certain transactions and business combinations between a corporation and a stockholder owning 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock for a period of three years from the date the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder. In addition to discouraging a third party from seeking to acquire control of us, the foregoing provisions could impair the ability of existing stockholders to remove and replace our management and/or our board of directors. Because many investors consider a change of control a desirable path to liquidity, delaying or preventing a change in control of our company may reduce the number of investors interested in our common stock, which could depress our stock price. Holders of our common stock will be subordinated to our Existing Credit Facility and New Credit Facility, convertible notes and other indebtedness. In the event of our liquidation or insolvency, holders of common stock would receive a distribution only after payment in full of all principal and interest due (i) under our Existing Credit Facility and New Credit Facility, (ii) to holders of our convertible notes and (iii) to other creditors. After these payments are made, there may be little or no proceeds to distribute to holders of our common stock. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. We, like other issuers, from time to time receive written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. There are no comments that remain unresolved that we received not less than 180 days before the end of fiscal 2010. 20 