ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Any investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following information about these risks, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks occur, our business financial position and operating results could be materially harmed. In these circumstances, the market price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our securities. All statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements, as defined under federal securities law. The words “look forward to,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “will,” “would,” “should,” “could,” “guidance,” “potential,” “opportunity,” “continue,” “project,” “forecast,” “confident,” “prospects,” “schedule,” “designed,” “future,” “discussions,” “if” and similar expressions typically are used to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on the then-current expectations, beliefs, assumptions, estimates and forecasts about our business. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions which are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Factors which may affect our business, financial condition and operating results include the effects of changes in the economy, consumer spending, the financial markets and the industries in which we and our clients operate, changes affecting the Internet and e-commerce, our ability to develop and maintain relationships with clients, strategic clients and suppliers and the timing of our establishment, extension or termination of our relationships with clients or strategic clients, our ability to timely and successfully develop, maintain and protect our technology, confidential and proprietary information, and product and service offerings and execute operationally, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, our ability to successfully integrate our acquisitions of other businesses, the performance of acquired businesses and other factors described in the risks below. In addition, the current global economic environment amplifies many of these risks. We expressly disclaim any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business Our future success cannot be predicted based upon our limited operating history. Compared to certain of our current and potential competitors, we have a relatively short operating history. In addition, the nature of our business and the industries in which we operate have undergone rapid development and change since we began operating. Accordingly, it is difficult to predict whether we will be successful. Thus, our chances of financial and operational success should be evaluated in light of the risks, uncertainties, expenses, delays and difficulties associated with operating a business with limited history in a relatively rapidly changing industry. If we are unable to address these issues, we may not be financially or operationally successful. 8 Table of Contents Our failure to manage growth and diversification of our business could harm us. We are continuing our efforts to grow and diversify our business both in the United States and internationally. As a result, we must expand and adapt our operational infrastructure and increase the number of our personnel in certain areas. To effectively manage our growth initiatives, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. These enhancements and improvements are likely to be complex and will require significant capital expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. If we are unable to adapt our systems in a timely manner to accommodate our growth, our business may be adversely affected. We have an accumulated deficit and may incur additional losses. We incurred a net loss in fiscal 2008, recorded net income in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, and incurred net losses in the previous four fiscal years. As of the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $134.2 million. We may not generate sufficient revenue and gross profit from our existing clients, add an appropriate number of new clients or adequately control our expenses. If we fail to do this, we may not be able to return to profitability. We will continue to incur significant operating expenses and capital expenditures as we seek to: • launch new clients; • expand internationally; • enhance our fulfillment capabilities and increase fulfillment capacity; • develop new technologies and features to improve our clients’ e-commerce businesses; • enhance our customer care center capabilities to better serve customers’ needs and increase customer care capacity; • expand our marketing services business; • increase our general and administrative functions to support our growing operations; • continue our business development, sales and marketing activities; and • make strategic or opportunistic acquisitions of complementary or new businesses or assets or internally develop new business initiatives. If we incur expenses at a greater pace than we generate revenues, we could incur additional losses. Our success is tied to the success of, and continued relationships with, the clients for which we operate e-commerce businesses. Our success is substantially dependent upon the success of the clients for which we operate e-commerce businesses. The retail business is intensely competitive. If our clients were to have financial difficulties or seek protection from their creditors or if they were to suffer impairment of their brands, it could adversely affect our ability to maintain and grow our business or to collect client receivables. Our business could also be adversely affected if our clients’ marketing, brands or retail stores are not successful or if our clients reduce their marketing or number of retail stores. Additionally, a change in management at our clients could adversely affect our relationship with those clients and our revenue from our agreements with those clients. As a result of our relationship with certain of our clients, these clients identify, buy, and bear the financial risk of inventory obsolescence for their corresponding Web stores and merchandise. As a result, if any of these clients fail to forecast product demand or optimize or maintain access to inventory, we would receive reduced service fees under the agreements and our business and reputation could be harmed. If any of our clients were to exit the e-commerce channel and/or terminate their relationships with us, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents The uncertainty regarding the general economy may reduce our revenues. Our revenue and rate of growth depends on the continued growth of demand for the products offered by our clients, and our business is affected by general economic and business conditions. A decrease in demand, whether caused by changes in consumer spending or a weakening of the U.S. economy or the local economies outside of the United States where we sell products, may result in decreased revenue or growth or problems with our ability to collect customer receivables. Uncertainty about current economic conditions poses a risk as consumers may postpone sending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for the products sold by our clients. Terrorist attacks and armed hostilities could create economic and consumer uncertainty that could adversely affect our revenue or growth. Other factors that could adversely influence demand from the customers of our clients include increases in fuel and energy costs, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. We rely on access to the credit and capital markets to finance a portion of our working capital requirements and support our liquidity needs. Access to these markets may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control, including turmoil in the financial services industry, volatility in securities trading markets and general economic downturns. We rely upon access to the credit and capital markets as a source of liquidity for the portion of our working capital requirements not provided by cash from operations. Market disruptions such as those currently being experienced in the United States and abroad may increase our cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to access sources of liquidity upon which we rely to finance our operations and satisfy our obligations as they become due. These disruptions may include turmoil in the financial services industry, including uncertainty surrounding lending institutions with which we do business or wish to do business. If the lenders in our secured revolving bank credit facility are unable to meet their obligations to provide loans to us under the terms of the credit facility, if we are unable to access credit at competitive rates, or at all, or if our short-term or long-term borrowing costs dramatically increase, our ability to finance our operations, meet our short-term obligations and implement our operating strategy could be adversely affected. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. We currently have and will continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. On June 1, 2005, we completed an offering of $57.5 million aggregate principal amount of our subordinated convertible notes due 2025 (the 2025 Notes). On July 5, 2007, we completed an offering of $150 million aggregate principal amount of our subordinated convertible notes due 2027. In addition, we have a secured revolving bank credit facility with a borrowing capacity of $90 million, which, subject to certain conditions, may be increased to $150 million. There were no borrowings outstanding under our secured revolving bank credit facility as of March 9, 2009. Including the notes, borrowings under the credit facility and capital leases, we have approximately $244.1 million of indebtedness outstanding as of March 9, 2009. On June 1, 2010, holders of the 2025 Notes are permitted to require us to repurchase the 2025 Notes for 100% of the principal amount outstanding plus accrued and unpaid interest. As of March 9, 2009, $57.5 million aggregate principal amount of the 2005 Notes was outstanding. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing; • require the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of interest and principal on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund our growth strategy, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors with less debt; and 10 Table of Contents • make it difficult or impossible for us to pay the principal amount of the subordinated convertible notes at maturity, thereby causing an event of default under the subordinated convertible notes. In addition, our secured revolving bank credit facility contains financial and other restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. In the event of default under the notes or the secured revolving bank credit facility, our indebtedness could become immediately due and payable and could adversely affect our financial condition. The terms of our secured revolving credit facility impose financial and operating restrictions. Our secured revolving credit facility contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. These covenants limit or restrict, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness or pre-pay existing indebtedness; • pay dividends or make other distributions in respect of our equity securities; • sell assets, including the capital stock of us and our subsidiaries; • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; • transfer any capital stock of any subsidiary or permit any subsidiary to issue capital stock; • create liens; • make certain loans or investments; and • effect a consolidation or merger or transfer of all or substantially all of our assets. These limitations and restrictions may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. In addition, our ability to borrow under the secured revolving credit facility is subject to compliance with covenants. If we breach any of the covenants in our secured revolving credit facility, we may be in default under our secured revolving credit facility. If we default, the lenders under our secured revolving credit facility could declare all borrowings owed to them, including accrued interest and other fees, to be due and payable. We may in the future need additional debt or equity financing to continue our growth. Such additional financing may not be available on satisfactory terms or it may not be available when needed, or at all. We have funded the growth of our e-commerce business primarily from the sale of equity securities and through the issuance of subordinated convertible notes. If our cash flows are insufficient to fund our operations and repay our debt, we may in the future need to seek additional equity or debt financings or reduce costs. Our secured revolving credit facility contains restrictive covenants restricting our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Further, we may not be able to obtain financing on satisfactory terms or it may not be available when needed, or at all. Our inability to finance our operations and repay our debt, may limit our growth potential and our ability to execute our business strategy. If we issue securities to raise capital, our existing stockholders may experience dilution or the new securities may have rights senior to those of our common stock. In addition, the terms of these securities could impose restrictions on our operations. If we fail to manage our exposure to global financial and securities market risk successfully, our operating results and financial statements could be materially impacted. The primary objective of most of our investment activities is to conservatively invest excess cash in highly rated liquid securities. To achieve this objective, a majority of our cash and cash equivalents are held in institutional money market mutual funds and bank deposit accounts. If the carrying value of our investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we will be required to write down the value of our investments, which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be directly or indirectly impacted by economic uncertainties that have affected various sectors of the global financial markets 11 Table of Contents causing credit and liquidity issues. With the current unstable credit environment, we might incur significant realized, unrealized or impairment losses associated with these investments. Seasonal fluctuations in sales cause wide fluctuations in our quarterly results. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience seasonal fluctuations in our revenues. These seasonal patterns have caused and will continue to cause quarterly fluctuations in our operating results. Our results of operations historically have been seasonal primarily because consumers increase their purchases on our clients’ e-commerce businesses during the fourth quarter holiday season. Our fourth fiscal quarter has accounted for and is expected to continue to account for a disproportionate percentage of our total annual revenues. For fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, 40.5%, 44.7% and 42.2% of our annual net revenues were generated in our fiscal fourth quarter, respectively. Since fiscal 1999, we have not generated net income in any fiscal quarter other than a fiscal fourth quarter. If our revenues are below seasonal expectations during the fourth fiscal quarter or if we do not execute operationally, our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In the future, our seasonal sales patterns may become more pronounced, may strain our personnel, customer care operations, fulfillment operations, IT capacity and shipment activities and may cause a shortfall in revenues compared to expenses in a given period. In addition, if too many consumers access our clients’ e-commerce businesses within a short period of time due to increased holiday or other demand or if we inaccurately forecast consumer traffic, we may experience system interruptions that make our clients’ e-commerce businesses unavailable or prevent us from transmitting orders to our fulfillment operations, which may reduce the volume of goods we sell as well as the attractiveness of our clients’ e-commerce businesses to consumers. In anticipation of increased sales activity during our fourth fiscal quarter, we and our clients increase our respective inventory levels. If we and our clients do not increase inventory levels for popular products in sufficient amounts or are unable to restock popular products in a timely manner, we and our clients may fail to meet customer demand which could reduce the attractiveness of our clients’ e-commerce businesses. Alternatively, if we overstock products, we may be required to take significant inventory markdowns or write-offs, which could reduce profits. Consumers are constantly changing their buying preferences. If we and our clients fail to anticipate these changes and adjust inventory accordingly, we could experience lower sales, higher inventory markdowns and lower margins for the inventory that we own. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability and our clients’ ability to anticipate and respond to consumer trends with respect to products sold through the e-commerce businesses we operate. Consumers’ tastes are subject to frequent and significant changes. In order to be successful, we and our clients must accurately predict consumers’ tastes and avoid overstocking or understocking products. If we or our clients fail to identify and respond to changes in merchandising and consumer preferences, sales on our clients’ e-commerce businesses could suffer and we or our clients could be required to mark down unsold inventory. This would depress our profit margins. In addition, any failure to keep pace with changes in consumers’ tastes could result in lost opportunities which could reduce sales. High merchandise returns or shrinkage rates could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot be assured that inventory loss and theft, or “shrinkage,” and merchandise returns will not increase in the future. If merchandise returns are significant, or our shrinkage rate increases, our revenues and costs of operations could be adversely affected. Our growth depends, in part, on our ability to add and launch new clients on a timely basis and on favorable terms and to extend the length of existing client agreements on favorable terms. Key elements of our growth strategy include adding new clients, extending the length of existing client agreements on favorable terms and growing the business of our existing clients. If we are unable to add our targeted amount of new business, add clients with good reputations or add new clients on favorable terms, our growth may be limited. If we are unable to add and launch new clients within the time frames projected by us, we may not be able to 12 Table of Contents achieve our targeted results in the expected periods. In addition, our ability to add new clients and retain and renew existing clients depends on the quality of the services we provide and our reputation. To the extent that we have difficulties with the quality of the services we provide or have operational issues that adversely affect our reputation, it could adversely impact our ability to add new clients, retain and renew existing clients and grow the business of our existing clients. Because competition for new clients is intense, we may not be able to add new clients on favorable terms, or at all. Further, our ability to add new clients on favorable terms is dependent on our success in building and retaining our sales organization and investing in infrastructure to serve new clients. We enter into contracts with our clients. In fiscal 2008, we derived 38.0% of our revenue from five clients’ e-commerce businesses. If we do not maintain good working relationships with our clients, or perform as required under these agreements, it could adversely affect our business. The contracts with our clients establish complex relationships between our clients and us. We spend a significant amount of time and effort to maintain our relationships with our clients and address the issues that from time to time may arise from these complex relationships. For fiscal 2008, sales to customers through one of our client’s e-commerce businesses accounted for 11.5% of our revenue, and sales through another one of our client’s e-commerce businesses accounted for 11.5% of our revenue. For fiscal 2008, sales through our top five clients’ e-commerce businesses accounted for 38.0% of our revenue. For fiscal 2007, sales to customers through one of our client’s e-commerce businesses accounted for 13.2% of our revenue, and sales to customers through another one of our client’s e-commerce businesses accounted for 11.9% of our revenue. For fiscal 2007, sales through our top five clients’ e-commerce businesses accounted for 45.3% of our revenue. For fiscal 2006, sales to customers through one of our client’s e-commerce businesses accounted for 14.9% of our revenue, and sales to customers through another one of our client’s e-commerce businesses accounted for 13.9% of our revenue. For fiscal 2006, sales through our top five clients’ e-commerce businesses accounted for 52.9% of our revenue. Our clients could decide not to renew their agreements at the end of their respective terms or could terminate or otherwise fail to perform under their agreements prior to the end of their respective terms. Additionally, if we do not perform as required under these agreements, our clients could seek to terminate their agreements prior to the end of their respective terms or seek damages from us. Loss of our existing clients, particularly our major clients, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and our clients must develop and maintain relationships with key manufacturers to obtain a sufficient assortment and quantity of quality merchandise on acceptable commercial terms. If we or our clients are unable to do so, it could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. For the e-commerce businesses for which we own inventory, we primarily purchase products from the manufacturers and distributors of the products. For the e-commerce businesses for which our clients own inventory, our clients typically purchase products from the manufacturers and distributors of products or source their own products. If we or our clients are unable to develop and maintain relationships with these manufacturers, distributors or sources, we or our clients may be unable to obtain or continue to carry a sufficient assortment and quantity of quality merchandise on acceptable commercial terms and our clients’ e-commerce businesses and our business could be adversely impacted. We do not have written contracts with some of our manufacturers, distributors or sources. During fiscal 2008, we purchased 16.8% of the total amount of inventory we purchased from one manufacturer. During fiscal 2007, we purchased 18.0% of the total amount of inventory we purchased from one manufacturer. During fiscal 2006, we purchased 28.6% of the total amount of inventory we purchased from the same manufacturer. While we have a contract with this manufacturer, this manufacturer and other manufacturers could stop selling products to us or our clients and may ask us or our clients to remove their products or logos from our clients’ Web stores. If we or our clients are unable to obtain products directly from manufacturers, especially popular brand manufacturers, we or our clients may not be able to obtain the same or comparable merchandise in a timely manner or on acceptable commercial terms. We rely on our ability to enter into marketing and promotional agreements with online services, search engines, comparison shopping sites, affiliate marketers and other web sites to drive traffic to the e-commerce businesses we operate. If we are unable to enter into or properly develop these marketing and 13 Table of Contents promotional agreements, our ability to generate revenue could be adversely affected. In addition, new technologies could block our ads and manipulate web search results, which could harm our business. We have entered into marketing and promotional agreements with search engines, comparison shopping sites, affiliate marketers and other web sites to provide content, advertising banners and other links to our clients’ e-commerce businesses. We rely on these agreements as significant sources of traffic to our clients’ e-commerce businesses and to generate new customers. If we are unable to maintain these relationships or enter into new agreements on acceptable terms, our ability to attract new customers could be harmed. Further, many of the parties with which we may have online advertising arrangements provide advertising services for other marketers of goods. As a result, these parties may be reluctant to enter into or maintain relationships with us. In addition, technologies may be developed that can block the display of our ads and could harm our ability to contact customers. Further, “index spammers” who develop ways to manipulate web search results could reduce the traffic that is directed to our clients’ e-commerce businesses. Failure to achieve sufficient traffic or generate sufficient revenue from purchases originating from third parties may limit our clients’ and our ability to maintain market share and revenue. In addition, we contact customers through e-mail. Our ability to contact customers through e-mail could be harmed and our business may be adversely affected if we mistakenly end up on SPAM lists, or lists of entities that have been involved in sending unwanted, unsolicited e-mails. If we experience problems in our fulfillment operations, our business could be adversely affected. Under some of our client agreements, we maintain the inventory of our clients in our fulfillment centers. Our failure to properly handle and protect such inventory could adversely affect our relationship with our clients. In addition, because it is difficult to predict demand, we may not manage our fulfillment centers in an optimal way, which may result in excess or insufficient inventory or warehousing, fulfillment, and distribution capacity. We may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment centers. As we continue to add fulfillment and warehouse capability or add new clients with different fulfillment requirements, our fulfillment network becomes increasingly complex and operating it becomes more challenging. In addition, our financial systems and equipment are complex and any additions, changes or upgrades to these systems or equipment could cause disruptions that could harm our business. Although we operate our own fulfillment centers, we rely upon multiple third parties for the shipment of our products. We also rely upon certain vendors to ship products directly to consumers. As a result, we are subject to the risks associated with the ability of these vendors and other third parties to successfully and in a timely manner fulfill and ship customer orders. The failure of these vendors and other third parties to provide these services, or the termination or interruption of these services, could adversely affect the satisfaction of consumers, which could result in reduced sales by our clients’ e-commerce businesses. In addition, if third parties were to increase the prices they charge to ship our products, and we passed these increases on to consumers, consumers might choose to buy comparable products locally to avoid shipping charges. A disruption in our operations could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any disruption to our operations, including system, network, telecommunications, software or hardware failures, and any damage to our physical locations, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to the risk of damage or interruption from: • fire, flood, hurricane, tornado, earthquake or other natural disasters; • power losses and interruptions; • Internet, telecommunications or data network failures; • physical and electronic break-ins or security breaches; • computer viruses; 14 Table of Contents • acts of terrorism; and • other similar events. If any of these events occur, it could result in interruptions, delays or cessations in service to customers of our clients’ e-commerce businesses and adversely impact our clients’ e-commerce businesses. These events could also prevent us from fulfilling orders for our clients’ e-commerce businesses. Our clients might seek significant compensation from us for their losses. Even if unsuccessful, this type of claim likely would be time consuming and costly for us to address and damaging to our reputation. Our primary data centers are located at two facilities of a third-party hosting company. We do not control the security, maintenance or operation of these facilities, which are also susceptible to similar disasters and problems. Our insurance policies may not cover us for losses related to these events, and even if they do, they may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. Any system failure that causes an interruption of the availability of our clients’ e-commerce businesses could reduce the attractiveness of our clients’ e-commerce businesses to consumers and result in reduced revenues, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we do not respond to rapid technological changes, our services and proprietary technology and systems may become obsolete. The Internet and e-commerce are constantly changing. Due to the costs and management time required to introduce new services and enhancements, we may be unable to respond to rapid technological changes in a timely enough manner to avoid our services becoming uncompetitive. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our clients’ e-commerce businesses. If competitors introduce new services using new technologies or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our clients’ existing e-commerce businesses and our services and proprietary technology and systems may become uncompetitive and our ability to attract and retain customers and new clients may be at risk. Developing our e-commerce platform offering, our clients’ e-commerce businesses and other proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks. We may use new technologies ineffectively or fail to adapt our e-commerce platform, our clients’ e-commerce businesses and our technology to meet the requirements of clients and customers or emerging industry standards. In addition, the new technologies may be challenging to develop and implement and may cause us to incur substantial costs. Additionally, the vendors we use for our clients’ e-commerce businesses may not provide the level of service we expect or may not be able to provide their product or service to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our success is tied to the continued growth in the use of the Internet and the adequacy of the Internet infrastructure. Our future success is substantially dependent upon continued growth in the use of the Internet. The number of users and advertisers on the Internet may not increase and commerce over the Internet may not continue to grow for a number of reasons, including: • actual or perceived lack of security of information or privacy protection; • lack of access and ease of use; • congestion of traffic on the Internet; • inconsistent quality of service and lack of availability of cost-effective, high-speed service; • possible disruptions, computer viruses or other damage to Internet servers or to users’ computers; • governmental regulation; • uncertainty regarding intellectual property ownership; 15 Table of Contents • lack of access to high-speed communications equipment; and • increases in the cost of accessing the Internet. As currently configured, the Internet may not support an increase in the number or requirements of users. In addition, there have been outages and delays on the Internet as a result of damage to the current infrastructure. The amount of traffic on our clients’ Web stores could decline materially if there are outages or delays in the future. The use of the Internet may also decline if there are delays in the development or adoption of modifications by third parties that are required to support increased levels of activity on the Internet. If any of the foregoing occurs, the number of our clients’ customers could decrease. In addition, we may be required to spend significant capital to adapt our operations to any new or emerging technologies relating to the Internet. Consumers may be unwilling to use the Internet to purchase goods. Our future success depends heavily upon the general public’s willingness to use the Internet as a means to purchase goods. The failure of the Internet to continue to develop as an effective commercial tool would seriously damage our future operations. If consumers are unwilling to use the Internet to conduct business, our business may not continue to grow. The Internet may not continue to succeed as a medium of commerce because of security risks and delays in developing elements of the needed Internet infrastructure, such as a reliable network, high-speed communication lines and other enabling technologies. In addition, anything that diverts our users from their customary level of usage of our websites could adversely affect our business. Third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of customer transaction data and confidential information stored on our servers. Any breach could cause customers to lose confidence in the security of our clients’ e-commerce businesses and choose not to purchase from those businesses. Our security measures may not effectively prevent others from obtaining improper access to the information on our clients’ e-commerce businesses. If someone is able to circumvent our security measures, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt the operation of our clients’ e-commerce businesses. Concerns about the security and privacy of transactions over the Internet could inhibit our growth. We and/or our clients may be unable to protect our and their proprietary technology and intellectual property rights. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our intellectual property rights in the core technology and other components of our e-commerce and e-mail platforms including our software and other proprietary information and material, and our ability to develop technologies that are as good as or better than our competitors. We may be unable to deter infringement or misappropriation of our software and other proprietary information and material, detect unauthorized use or take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Additionally, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. In addition, the failure of our clients to protect their intellectual property rights, including their trademarks and domain names, could impair our operations. Our competitors could, without violating our intellectual property rights, develop technologies that are as good as or better than our technology. Protecting our intellectual property and other proprietary rights can be expensive. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and consequently harm our operating results. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights in our software and other information and material or to develop technologies that are as good as or better than our competitors’ could put us at a disadvantage to our competitors. These failures could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be subject to intellectual property claims or competition or trade practices claims that could be costly and could disrupt our business. Third parties may assert that our business or technologies infringe or misappropriate their intellectual property rights. Third parties may claim that we do not have the right to offer certain services or products or to present specific images or logos on our clients’ e-commerce businesses, or we have infringed their patents, trademarks, copyrights or other rights. We may in the future receive claims that we are engaging in unfair competition or other illegal trade practices. We may be unsuccessful in defending against these claims, which could result in substantial 16 Table of Contents damages, fines or other penalties. The resolution of a claim could also require us to change how we do business, redesign our service offering or clients’ e-commerce businesses or enter into burdensome royalty or license agreements. These license or royalty agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, in the event of a successful claim of infringement. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover every claim that third parties could assert against us. Even unsuccessful claims could result in significant legal fees and other expenses, diversion of management’s time and disruptions in our business. Any of these claims could also harm our reputation. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, which could harm our margins and our business. The market for the development and operation of e-commerce businesses and interactive marketing services is continuously evolving and is intensely competitive. Increased competition could result in fewer successful opportunities to obtain clients, price reductions, reduced gross margins and/or loss of market share, any of which could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the development and operation of e-commerce businesses, we often compete with in-house solutions promoted and supported by internal information technology staffs, marketing departments, merchandising groups and other internal corporate constituencies. In these situations, we compete with technology and service providers, which supply one or more components of an e-commerce solution primarily to allow the prospect or others to develop and operate the prospect’s e-commerce business in-house. In addition, the e-commerce businesses operated by us competes with the online and offline businesses of a variety of retailers and manufacturers. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. They may be able to secure merchandise from vendors on more favorable terms and may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies. They may also receive investments from or enter into other commercial relationships with larger, well-established companies with greater financial resources. Competitors in the retail, e-commerce services and interactive marketing services industries also may be able to devote more resources to technology development and marketing than we do. Competition in the e-commerce and interactive marketing industries may intensify. Other companies in our industries may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. Additionally, there are relatively low barriers to entry into the e-commerce services and interactive marketing services markets. As various Internet market segments obtain large, loyal customer bases, participants in those segments may expand into the market segments in which we operate. In addition, new and expanded web technologies may further intensify the competitive nature of online retail and interactive marketing. The nature of the Internet as an electronic marketplace facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping and renders it inherently more competitive than conventional retailing formats. This increased competition may reduce our sales, our ability to operate profitably, or both. We may be subject to product liability claims that could be costly and time-consuming. We sell products manufactured by third parties, some of which may be defective. We also sell some products that are manufactured by third parties for us. If any product that we sell were to cause physical injury or injury to property, the injured party or parties could bring claims against us as the retailer or manufacturer of the product. These claims may not be covered by insurance and, even if they are, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover every claim that could be asserted. Similarly, we could be subject to claims that customers of our clients’ e-commerce businesses were harmed due to their reliance on our product information, product selection guides, advice or instructions. If a successful claim were brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, it could adversely affect our business. Even unsuccessful claims could result in the expenditure of funds and management time and adverse publicity and could have a negative impact on our business. 17 Table of Contents We may be liable if third parties misappropriate our customers’ personal information. Additionally, we are limited in our ability to use and disclose customer information. Any security breach could expose us to risks of loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations. If third parties are able to penetrate our network or telecommunications security or otherwise misappropriate our customers’ personal information or credit card information or if we give third parties improper access to our customers’ personal information or credit card information, we could be subject to liability. This liability could include claims for unauthorized purchases with credit card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims. They could also include claims for other misuses of personal information, including unauthorized marketing purposes. These claims could result in litigation. Liability for misappropriation of this information could be significant. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission and state agencies regularly investigate various companies’ uses of customers’ personal information. We could incur additional expenses if new regulations regarding the security or use of personal information are introduced or if government agencies investigate our privacy practices. Further, any resulting adverse publicity arising from investigations would impact our business negatively. Changes to credit card association fees, rules, or practices could harm our business. We must rely on banks or payment processors to process transactions, and must pay a fee for this service. From time to time, credit card associations may increase the interchange fees that they charge for each transaction using one of their cards. Our credit card processors have the right to pass any increases in interchange fees on to us as well as increase their own fees for processing. These increased fees increase our operating costs and reduce our profit margins. We are also required by our processors to comply with credit card association operating rules, and we will reimburse our processors for any fines they are assessed by credit card associations as a result of any rule violations by us. The credit card associations and their member banks set and interpret operating rules related to their credit cards. The credit card associations and/or member banks could adopt new operating rules or re-interpret existing rules that we might find difficult or even impossible to follow. As a result, we could lose our ability to give customers the option of using credit cards to fund their payments. If we are unable to accept credit cards, our business would be seriously damaged. Credit card fraud could adversely affect our business. The failure to adequately control fraudulent transactions could increase our expenses. To date, we have not suffered material losses due to fraud. However, we may in the future suffer losses as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit card data. Under current credit card practices, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions because we do not obtain a cardholder’s signature. With respect to checks and installment sales, we generally are liable for fraudulent transactions. If one or more states successfully assert that we should collect or should have collected sales or other taxes on the sale of our merchandise, our business could be harmed. We currently collect sales or other similar taxes only for goods sold by us and shipped into certain states. One or more local, state or foreign jurisdictions may seek to impose historical and future sales tax obligations on us or our clients and other out-of-state companies that engage in e-commerce. In recent years, certain large retailers expanded their collection of sales tax on purchases made through affiliated web sites. Our business could be adversely affected if one or more states or any foreign country successfully asserts that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of merchandise through the e-commerce businesses we operate. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. We are subject to income, payroll and other taxes in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Moreover, significant judgment is required in evaluating our worldwide provision for income taxes. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to review by applicable tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial conditions. Although we believe 18 Table of Contents our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. We rely on insurance to mitigate some risks and, to the extent the cost of insurance increases, or we are unable or choose not to maintain sufficient insurance to mitigate the risks facing our business, or our insurers are unable to meet their obligations, our operating results may be diminished. We contract for insurance to cover certain potential risks and liabilities. In the current environment, insurance companies are increasingly specific about what they will and will not insure. It is possible that we may not be able to get enough insurance to meet our needs, may have to pay very high prices for the coverage we do get, have very high deductibles or may not be able to acquire any insurance for certain types of business risk. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future choose not to obtain insurance for certain risks facing our business. This could leave us exposed to potential claims. If we were found liable for a significant claim in the future, our operating results could be negatively impacted. Also, to the extent the cost of maintaining insurance increases, our operating results will be negatively affected. Additionally, we are subject to the risk that one or more of our insurers may become insolvent and would be unable to pay a claim that may be made in the future. Variability in self-insurance liability estimates could significantly impact our financial results. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we began to self-insure for employee medical coverage up to a set retention level, beyond which we maintain excess insurance coverage. We may decide to self-insure for other risks for which we currently purchase insurance. Liabilities are determined using actuarial estimates of the aggregate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of incurred but not reported claims, on an undiscounted basis. Our accruals for insurance reserves reflect certain actuarial assumptions and management judgments, which are subject to a high degree of variability. The variability is caused by factors external to us such as: • historical claims experience; • medical inflation; • legislative changes to benefit levels; • jury verdicts; and • claim settlement patterns. Any significant variation in these factors could cause a material change to our reserves for self-insurance liabilities as well as earnings. Existing or future laws or regulations could harm our business or marketing efforts. We are subject to international, federal, state and local laws applicable to businesses in general and to e-commerce specifically. Due to the increasing growth and popularity of the Internet and e-commerce, many laws and regulations relating to the Internet and online retailing are proposed and considered at the country, federal, state and local levels. These laws and regulations could cover issues such as taxation, pricing, content, distribution, access, quality and delivery of products and services, electronic contracts, intellectual property rights, user privacy and information security. For example, at least one state has enacted, and other states have proposed, legislation limiting the uses of personal information collected online or requiring collectors of information to establish procedures to disclose and notify users of privacy and security policies, obtain consent from users for use and disclosure of information, or provide users with the ability to access, correct and delete stored information. Even in the absence of such legislation, the Federal Trade Commission has settled several proceedings resulting in consent decrees in which Internet companies have been required to establish programs regulating the manner in which personal information is collected from users and provided to third parties. We could become a party to a similar enforcement proceeding. These regulatory and enforcement efforts could also harm our ability to collect demographic and personal information from users, which could be costly or adversely affect our marketing efforts. 19 Table of Contents The applicability of existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, intellectual property rights, taxation, libel, obscenity, qualification to do business and export or import matters could also harm our business. Many of these laws may not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet or online retailing. Some laws that do contemplate or address those unique issues, such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003, or the “CAN-SPAM,” Act, are only beginning to be interpreted by the courts and their applicability and reach are therefore uncertain. These current and future laws and regulations could reduce our ability to operate efficiently. Our e-Dialog e-mail marketing solutions business is dependent on the market for e-mail marketing solutions and there may be changes in the market that may harm our business. In our e-Dialog e-mail marketing solutions business, we derive revenue from e-mail marketing solutions. The market for e-mail marketing solutions is at a relatively early stage of development, making this business and future prospects difficult to evaluate. Our current expectations with respect to areas of growth within the market may not prove to be correct. Should our clients lose confidence in the value or effectiveness of e-mail marketing, the demand for our products and services will likely decline. A number of factors could affect our clients’ assessment of the value or effectiveness of e-mail marketing, including the following: • growth in the number of e-mails sent or received on a daily or regular basis; • the ability of filters to effectively screen for unwanted e-mails; • the ability of smart phones or similar communications to adequately display e-mail; • continued security concerns regarding Internet usage in general from viruses, worms or similar problems affecting Internet and e-mail utilization; and • increased governmental regulation or restrictive policies adopted by Internet service providers, or “ISPs,” that make it more difficult or costly to utilize e-mail for marketing communications. Any decrease in the use of e-mail by businesses would reduce demand for our e-mail marketing products or services and the business and results of operation for our e-mail marketing business would suffer. In addition, it is uncertain whether our e-mail marketing solutions will achieve and sustain the high level of market acceptance that is critical to the success of our business. If the market for e-mail marketing solutions fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, demand for our e-mail marketing solutions may decline and our revenue would suffer. We may not be able to successfully address any of these challenges, risks and difficulties, including the other risks related to our business and industry described below. Failure to adequately do so could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Existing federal, state and international laws regulating e-mail marketing practices impose certain obligations on the senders of commercial e-mails and could expose us to liability for violations, decrease the effectiveness of our e-mail marketing solutions, and expose us to financial, criminal and other penalties for non-compliance, which could increase our operating costs. The CAN-SPAM Act establishes certain requirements for commercial e-mail messages and specifies penalties for commercial e-mail that violates the CAN-SPAM Act. The CAN-SPAM Act, among other things, obligates the sender of commercial e-mails to provide recipients with the ability to opt out of receiving future commercial e-mail messages from the sender. As a result, in the event our products and services were to become unavailable or malfunction for any period of time for any reason, it is possible that certain opt-out requests would not be received, or other compliance obligations would be impeded, potentially exposing our clients and us to liability under the CAN-SPAM Act. Non-compliance with the CAN-SPAM Act may carry significant financial penalties. Moreover, penalties under the CAN-SPAM Act may increase if it is determined that e-mail lists provided to us by our clients were obtained using unlawful means. We generally cannot confirm the origins of e-mail lists provided to us by our clients. The CAN-SPAM Act preempts similar state laws directed at commercial e-mail in many instances, but there are some exceptions and liability in connection with e-mail marketing campaigns can arise under state law as well. 20 Table of Contents In addition, many states have more general laws that may apply to commercial e-mail practices. These laws often provide a private right of action and specify damages and other penalties, which in some cases may be more substantial than the penalties provided under the CAN-SPAM Act. In addition, certain foreign countries have enacted laws that regulate e-mail marketing, and some of these laws are more restrictive than U.S. laws. For example, some foreign laws prohibit sending unsolicited e-mail unless the recipient has provided the sender advance consent to receipt of such e-mail, or in other words has “opted-in” to receiving it. If we were found to be in violation of the CAN-SPAM Act, applicable state laws not preempted by the CAN-SPAM Act, or foreign laws regulating the distribution of e-mail, whether as a result of violations by our clients or if we were deemed to be directly subject to and in violation of these requirements, we could be exposed to one or more of the following consequences: • payment of statutory, actual or other damages; • criminal penalties; • actions by state attorneys general; • actions by private citizens or class actions; and • penalties imposed by regulatory authorities of the U.S. government, state governments and foreign governments. Any of these potential areas of exposure would adversely affect our financial performance, could preclude us from doing business in specific jurisdictions, and significantly harm our business. We also may be required to change one or more aspects of the way we operate our business, which could impair our ability to attract and retain clients or increase our operating costs. Private spam blacklists may interfere with our ability to communicate with our e-commerce customers and the ability of the clients of e-Dialog to effectively deploy our e-mail marketing products or services which could harm our business. In operating the e-commerce businesses of our clients, we depend on e-mail to market to and communicate with customers, our clients also rely on e-mail to communicate with their customers and e-Dialog provides e-mail marketing solutions to its clients. In an effort to regulate the use of e-mail for commercial solicitation, various private companies maintain “blacklists” of companies and individuals (and the websites, ISPs and Internet protocol addresses associated with those companies or individuals) that do not adhere to standards of conduct or practices for commercial e-mail solicitations that the blacklisting entity believes are appropriate. If a company’s Internet protocol addresses are listed by a blacklisting entity, e-mails sent from those addresses may be blocked if they are sent to any Internet domain or Internet address that subscribes to the blacklisting entity’s service or purchases its blacklist. It is possible that this sort of blacklisting or similar restrictive activity could interfere with our ability to communicate with customers of our clients’ e-commerce businesses or to market our clients’ products or services and could undermine the effectiveness of our clients’ e-mail marketing campaigns, all of which could damage our business. ISPs can also block e-mails from reaching their users. Recent releases of ISP software and the implementation of stringent new policies by ISPs make it more difficult to deliver our clients’ e-mails. If ISPs materially limit, delay or halt the delivery of our or our clients’ e-mails, or if we fail to deliver our or our clients’ e-mails in a manner compatible with ISPs’ e-mail handling or authentication technologies, then the demand for our products or services could be reduced and our clients may seek to terminate their agreements with us. From time to time, we may acquire or invest in other companies. There are risks associated with potential acquisitions and investments and we may not achieve the expected benefits of future acquisitions and investments. We have recently completed several acquisitions and if we are presented with opportunities that we consider appropriate, we may make investments in complementary companies, products or technologies or we may purchase other companies. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any investment or acquisition. We may be subject to 21 Table of Contents unanticipated problems and liabilities of acquired companies. While we attempt in our acquisitions to determine the nature and extent of any pre-existing liabilities, and to obtain indemnification rights from the previous owners for acts or omissions arising prior to the date of acquisition, resolving issues of liability between the parties could involve a significant amount of time, manpower and expense. If we or any of our subsidiaries were to be unsuccessful in a claim for indemnity from a seller, the liability imposed on us or our subsidiary could have a material adverse effect on us. We may not be able to assimilate successfully the additional personnel, operations, acquired technology or products or services into our business. Any acquisition may strain our existing financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures. If we do not successfully integrate any acquired business, the expenditures on integration efforts will reduce our cash position without us being able to realize the expected benefits of the acquisition. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. Further, the physical expansion in facilities that could occur as a result of any acquisition may result in disruptions that could seriously impair our business. In addition, due to the recent disruptions in the global financial markets, valuations supporting our acquisitions could change rapidly, and we could determine that such valuations have experienced impairments which could adversely impact our financial results. Finally, we may have to use our cash resources, incur debt or issue additional equity securities to pay for other acquisitions or investments, which could increase our leverage or be dilutive to our stockholders. We plan to continue to expand our business internationally which may cause our business to become increasingly susceptible to numerous international business risks and challenges. We have limited experience in international operations. We ship certain products to Canada and other countries. In addition, in January 2006, we completed the acquisition of Aspherio S.L., a Barcelona, Spain-based provider of outsourced e-commerce solutions now known as GSI Commerce Solutions International. In December 2007, we completed the acquisition of Zendor.com Ltd., a Manchester, United Kingdom-based provider of outsourced e-commerce solutions now known as Zendor/GSI Commerce Ltd. In February 2008, we completed the acquisition of e-Dialog, Inc. with operations in London, England. Because our growth strategy involves expanding our business internationally, we intend to continue to expand our international efforts. However, we have limited experience in international business, and we cannot assure you that our international expansion strategy will be successful. To date, however, our international business activities have been limited. Our lack of a track record outside the United States increases the risks described below. In addition, our experience in the United States may not be relevant to establishing a business outside the United States. Accordingly, our international expansion strategy is subject to significant execution risk, as we cannot assure you that our strategy will be successful. For fiscal 2008, substantially all of our net revenues, operating results and assets were in the United States. International expansion is subject to inherent risks and challenges that could adversely affect our business, including: • the need to develop new supplier and manufacturer relationships, particularly because major manufacturers may require that our international operations deal with local distributors; • compliance with international legal and regulatory requirements and tariffs; • managing fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; • potential adverse tax consequences; • uncertain political and economic climates; • potentially higher incidence of fraud; • price controls or other restrictions on foreign currency; and • difficulties in obtaining export and import licenses and compliance with applicable export controls. 22 Table of Contents Any negative impact from our international business efforts could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition as a whole. In addition, gains and losses on the conversion of foreign payments into U.S. dollars may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and fluctuating exchange rates could cause reduced revenues and/or gross margins from non-dollar-denominated international sales. In addition, if we further expand internationally, we may face additional competition challenges. Local companies may have a substantial competitive advantage because of their greater understanding of, and focus on, the local customer. In addition, governments in foreign jurisdictions may regulate e-commerce or other online services in such areas as content, privacy, network security, copyright, encryption, taxation, or distribution. We also may not be able to hire, train, motivate and manage the required personnel, which may limit our growth in international market segments. In addition, compliance with foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that are applicable to our international operations is complex and may increase our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and our international operations could expose us to fines and penalties if we fail to comply with these regulations. These laws and regulations include import and export requirements, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Any violations of such laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial fines or prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services to one or more countries, and could also materially damage our reputation, international expansion efforts, business and operating results. Our success is dependent upon our executive officers and other key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the contribution of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly Michael G. Rubin, chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer. Our executive officers and key personnel could terminate their employment with us at any time despite any employment agreements we may have with these employees. Due to the competition for highly qualified personnel, we cannot be sure that we will be able to retain or attract executive, managerial or other key personnel. We do not intend to obtain key person life insurance for any of our executive officers or key personnel. We may be unable to hire and retain skilled personnel which could limit our growth. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to identify, attract, retain and motivate skilled personnel which could limit our growth. We intend to continue to seek to hire a significant number of skilled personnel. Due to intense competition for these individuals from our competitors and other employers, we may not be able to attract or retain highly qualified personnel in the future. Our failure to attract and retain the experienced and highly trained personnel that are integral to our business may limit our growth. Additionally, we have experienced recent growth in personnel numbers and expect to continue to hire additional personnel in selected areas. Managing this growth requires significant time and resource commitments from our senior management. If we are unable to effectively manage a large and geographically dispersed group of employees or to anticipate our future growth and personnel needs, our business may be adversely affected. There are limitations on the liabilities of our directors and executive officers. Under certain circumstances, we are obligated to indemnify our directors and executive officers against liability and expenses incurred by them in their service to us. Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and under Delaware law, our directors are not liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty, except for liability for breach of a director’s duty of loyalty, acts or omissions by a director not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, dividend payments or stock repurchases that are unlawful under Delaware law or any transaction in which a director has derived an improper personal benefit. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with each of our directors and executive officers. These agreements, among other things, require us to indemnify each director and executive officer for certain expenses, including attorneys’ fees, judgments, fines and settlement amounts, incurred by any such person in any action or proceeding, including any 23 Table of Contents action by us or in our right, arising out of the person’s services as one of our directors or executive officers. The costs associated with actions requiring indemnification under these agreements could be harmful to our business. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders and clients could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business, the trading price of our common stock and our ability to retain our current clients and obtain new clients. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have expended significant resources to comply with our obligations under Section 404 with respect to fiscal 2008. If we fail to correct any issues in the design or operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential stockholders and clients could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business, the trading price of our common stock and our ability to retain our current clients and obtain new clients. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We may enter into future acquisitions and take certain actions in connection with such acquisitions that could affect the price of our common stock. As part of our growth strategy, we expect to review acquisition prospects that would offer growth opportunities and we may acquire businesses, products or technologies in the future. In the event of future acquisitions, we could: • use a significant portion of our available cash; • issue equity securities, which would dilute current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • incur substantial debt; • incur or assume contingent liabilities, known or unknown; • incur amortization expenses related to intangibles; and • incur large, immediate accounting write-offs. Such actions by us could harm our results from operations and adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly, which may cause the market price of our common stock to be volatile. Our annual and quarterly operating results have and may continue to fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Because our operating results may be volatile and difficult to predict, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. Our operating results may also fall below our published expectations and the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which likely will cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. Factors that may cause our operating results to fluctuate or harm our business include but are not limited to the following: • our ability to obtain new clients or to retain existing clients in our e-commerce and marketing services businesses; • the performance of one or more of our client’s e-commerce businesses; • our and our clients’ ability to obtain new customers at a reasonable cost or encourage repeat purchases; • the number of visitors to the e-commerce businesses operated by us or our ability to convert these visitors into customers; • our and our clients’ ability to offer an appealing mix of products or to sell products that we purchase; 24 Table of Contents • our ability to achieve effective results for our marketing services clients; • our ability to adequately develop, maintain and upgrade our clients’ e-commerce businesses or the technology and systems we use to process customers’ orders and payments; • the timing and costs of upgrades and developments of our systems and infrastructure; • the ability of our competitors to offer new or superior e-commerce businesses, services or products or new or superior marketing services; • price competition that results in lower profit margins or losses; • the seasonality of our business, especially the importance of our fiscal fourth quarter to our business; • our inability to obtain or develop specific products or brands or unwillingness of vendors to sell their products to us; • unanticipated fluctuations in the amount of consumer spending on various products that we sell, which tend to be discretionary spending items; • the cost of advertising and the amount of free shipping and other promotions we offer; • increases in the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our operations; • our inability to manage our shipping costs on a profitable basis or unexpected increases in shipping costs or delivery times, particularly during the holiday season; • inflation of prices of fuel and gasoline and other raw materials that impact our costs; • technical difficulties, system security breaches, system downtime or Internet slowdowns; • our inability to manage inventory levels or control inventory shrinkage; • our inability to manage fulfillment operations or provide adequate levels of customer care or our inability to forecast the proper staffing levels in fulfillment and customer care; • an increase in the level of our product returns or our inability to effectively process returns; • government regulations related to the Internet or e-commerce which could increase the costs associated with operating our businesses, including requiring the collection of sales tax on all purchases through the e-commerce businesses we operate; and • unfavorable economic conditions in general or specific to the Internet or e-commerce, which could reduce demand for the products sold through our clients’ e-commerce businesses. Future sales of our common stock in the public market or the issuance of securities senior to our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise funds in new securities offerings. Future sales of our common stock, the perception that such sales could occur or the availability for future sale of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock could adversely affect the market prices of our common stock prevailing from time to time and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. In addition, we may issue common stock or equity securities senior to our common stock in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of stock options or for other reasons. As of March 9, 2009, there were 2,841,779 shares available for new awards under our 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, referred to as the “2005 plan.” Additionally, as of March 9, 2009 there were 3,454,962 shares of common stock that were subject to outstanding awards granted under the 2005 plan and 3,811,305 shares of common stock that were subject to outstanding awards granted under our 1996 Equity Incentive Plan. In the event of the cancellation, 25 Table of Contents expiration, forfeiture or repurchase of any of these shares, such shares would become available for issuance under the 2005 plan. In order to attract and retain key personnel, we may issue additional securities, including stock options, restricted stock grants and shares of common stock, in connection with our employee benefit plans, or may lower the price of existing stock options. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that the sale, or the availability for sale, of substantial amounts of common stock by our existing stockholders pursuant to an effective registration statement will have on market prices of our common stock. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate that any cash dividends will be declared or paid in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of our secured revolving credit facility prohibit us from declaring or paying dividends on our common stock. As a result, holders of our common stock will not receive a return, if any, on their investment unless they sell their shares of our common stock. We are controlled by certain principal stockholders. As of March 9, 2009, Michael G. Rubin, our chairman, president and chief executive officer, beneficially owned 15.5%, funds affiliated with SOFTBANK Holdings Inc., or SOFTBANK, beneficially owned 16.9%, and Liberty Media Corporation, or Liberty, through its subsidiary QVC, Inc. and QVC’s affiliate QK Holdings, Inc. beneficially owned approximately 19.2% of our outstanding common stock. If they decide to act together, any two of Mr. Rubin, SOFTBANK, and Liberty would be in a position to exercise considerable control, and all three would be in a position to exercise complete control, over most matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election or removal of directors, approval of significant corporate transactions and the ability generally to direct our affairs. Furthermore, pursuant to stock purchase agreements, SOFTBANK and Liberty each have the right to designate up to one member of our board of directors. This concentration of ownership and the right of SOFTBANK and Liberty to designate members to our board of directors may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. Furthermore, Mr. Rubin has entered into voting agreements with each of SOFTBANK and Liberty, and SOFTBANK and Liberty have entered into voting agreements with each other. The parties to these voting agreements have agreed to support the election of the directors designated by each of the other parties. It may be difficult for a third-party to acquire us and this could depress our stock price. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws, stockholder rights agreement and Delaware law may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing transactions that involve any actual or threatened change in control. The rights issued under our stockholder rights agreement may be a substantial deterrent to a person acquiring beneficial ownership of 20% or more (or, in the case of any stockholder that as of April 2, 2006 beneficially owned 19% or more of the outstanding shares of common stock, 25.1% or more) of our common stock without the approval of our board of directors. The stockholder rights agreement would cause extreme dilution to such person. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, restricts certain transactions and business combinations between a corporation and a stockholder owning 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock for a period of three years from the date the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder. In addition to discouraging a third party from seeking to acquire control of us, the foregoing provisions could impair the ability of existing stockholders to remove and replace our management and/or our board of directors. Because many investors consider a change of control a desirable path to liquidity, delaying or preventing a change in control of our company may reduce the number of investors interested in our common stock, which could depress our stock price. See “— We are controlled by certain principal stockholders.” 26 Table of Contents The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market has been volatile. From December 30, 2007, the first day of our fiscal 2008, through, January 3, 2009, the last day of fiscal 2008, the high and low sales prices of our common stock ranged from $19.75 to $5.69 per share. During fiscal 2007, the high and low sale prices of our common stock ranged from $29.27 to $16.09 per share. During fiscal 2006, the high and low sale prices of our common stock ranged from $19.52 to $10.67 per share. We expect that the market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate. Our common stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: • our performance and prospects; • the performance and prospects of our clients; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • the vesting of our equity awards resulting in the sale of large amounts of our common stock during concentrated trading windows; • investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate; • changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts; • general financial and other market conditions; and • general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Holders of our common stock will be subordinated to our secured revolving credit facility, convertible notes and other indebtedness. In the event of our liquidation or insolvency, holders of common stock would receive a distribution only after payment in full of all principal and interest due under our secured revolving credit facility, due to holders of our convertible notes and due to other creditors, and there may be little or no proceeds to distribute to holders of common stock at such time. Conversion of our subordinated convertible notes would dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. In June 2005, we issued $57.5 million principal amount of our subordinated convertible notes due 2025, referred to as the “3% convertible notes,” and in July 2007 we issued $150.0 million principal amount of our subordinated convertible notes due 2027, referred to as the “2.5% convertible notes,” which are all convertible into shares of our common stock. Under certain circumstances, a maximum of 5,656,505 shares of common stock could be issued upon conversion of the 2.5% convertible notes and a maximum of 1,669,737 shares of common stock could be issued upon conversion of the 3% convertible notes, in each case, subject to adjustment for stock dividends, stock splits, cash dividends, certain tender offers, other distributions and similar events. The conversion of some or all of these notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversions could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these notes could encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common stock. 27 Table of Contents Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may cause adverse unexpected revenue and/or expense fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even require retroactive or retrospective application. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. In May 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (“FSP”) APB 14-1, “Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement),” (“FSP APB 14-1”), which changes the accounting treatment for convertible debt instruments that allow for either mandatory or optional cash settlements. FSP APB 14-1 will require the issuer of convertible debt instruments with cash settlement features to separately account for the liability and equity components of the instrument. Our $207.5 million of subordinated convertible notes will be subject to the provisions of this proposal because under the notes we have the ability to elect cash settlement of the conversion value of the notes. The debt will be recognized at the present value of our cash flows discounted using our nonconvertible debt borrowing rate. The equity component will be recognized as the difference between the proceeds from the issuance of the note and the fair value of the liability. The FSP will also require an accretion of the resultant debt discount over the expected life of the debt. The transition guidance requires retrospective application to all periods presented and does not grandfather existing instruments. FSP APB 14-1 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The adoption in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 will result in the following changes on our Consolidated Balance Sheet: a decrease to convertible notes of approximately $46 million, an increase to additional paid in capital of approximately $45 million, an increase to accumulated deficit of approximately $19 million, an increase to deferred tax liability of approximately $19 million, and a decrease to other assets, net of approximately $1 million. It will also result in a material decrease to net income as a result of a material non-cash increase to interest expense to accrete the value of the debt from its fair value to its principle amount over the term of the subordinated convertible notes in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. For fiscal 2009, the incremental charge to interest expense as a result of the FSP will be $10 million. The incremental charge to interest expense that we will retrospectively present is approximately $9 million for fiscal 2008, $6 million for fiscal 2007, $3 million for fiscal 2006 and $1 million for fiscal 2005. These changes will not impact our cash flows from operating activities, investing activities or financing activities. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. We, like other issuers, from time to time receive written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. There are no comments that remain unresolved that we received not less than 180 days before the end of fiscal 2008. 28 Table of Contents 