Risk Factors Any investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following information about these risks, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks occur, our business could be materially harmed. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not necessarily known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. All statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. The words “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “will,” “would,” “should,” “guidance,” “potential,” “continue,” “project,” “forecast,” “confident,” “prospects,” and similar expressions typically are used to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on the then-current expectations, beliefs, assumptions, estimates and forecasts about our business and the industries and markets in which we and our partners operate. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions which are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Factors which may affect our business, financial condition and operating results include the effects of changes in the economy, consumer spending, the financial markets and the industries in which we and our partners operate, changes affecting the Internet and e-commerce, our ability to develop and maintain relationships with strategic partners and suppliers and the timing of our establishment, extension or termination of our relationships with strategic partners, our ability to timely and successfully develop, maintain and protect our technology, confidential and proprietary information and product and service offerings and execute 2004 Annual Report 9 Table of Contents operationally, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, our ability to successfully integrate our acquisitions of other businesses, if any, and the performance of acquired businesses. More information about potential factors that could affect us is provided below. We expressly disclaim any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements, except as otherwise specifically stated by us. Risks Related to Our Business Our future success cannot be predicted based upon our limited operating history. Compared to certain of our current and potential competitors, we have a relatively short operating history. In addition, the nature of our business has undergone rapid development and change since we began operating it. Accordingly, it is difficult to predict whether we will be successful. Thus, our chances of financial and operational success should be evaluated in light of the risks, uncertainties, expenses, delays and difficulties associated with operating a new business in a relatively new market, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to address these issues, we may not be financially or operationally successful. We have an accumulated deficit and may incur additional losses. Although we recorded a profit in fiscal 2004, we incurred losses over the prior five fiscal years while operating our business. As of the end of fiscal 2004, we had an accumulated deficit of $177.3 million. We may not generate sufficient revenue and gross profit from our existing partners, add an appropriate number of new partners or adequately control our expenses. If we fail to do this, we may not be able to maintain profitability. We will continue to incur significant operating expenses and capital expenditures as we seek to: • enhance our fulfillment capabilities; • further improve our order processing systems and capabilities; • develop new technologies and features to improve our partners’ e-commerce businesses; • enhance our customer service center capabilities to better serve customers’ needs; • improve our marketing, customer relationship management and design capabilities; • increase our general and administrative functions to support our growing operations; • continue our business development, sales and marketing activities; and • make strategic or opportunistic acquisitions of complementary or new businesses or assets. If we incur expenses at a greater pace than our revenues, we could incur additional losses. Our growth may be limited if we do not generate sufficient cash to fund our operations. We may in the future need additional debt or equity financing to execute our business and continue our growth. Such additional financing may not be available on satisfactory terms or it may not be available when needed, or at all. Because we have not generated sufficient cash from operations to date, we have funded our e-commerce business primarily from the sale of equity securities. If our cash flows are insufficient to fund our operations, we may in the future need to seek additional equity or debt financings or reduce costs. Further, we may not be able to obtain financing on satisfactory terms or it may not be available when needed, or at all. Our inability to finance our growth, either internally or externally, may limit our growth potential and our ability to execute our business strategy. If we issue securities to raise capital, our existing stockholders may experience dilution or the new securities may have rights senior to those of our common stock. 2004 Annual Report 10 Table of Contents Seasonal fluctuations in sales could cause wide fluctuations in our quarterly results. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience seasonal fluctuations in our revenues. These seasonal patterns have caused and will continue to cause quarterly fluctuations in our operating results. Our results of operations historically have been seasonal primarily because consumers increase their purchases on our partners’ e-commerce businesses during the fourth quarter holiday season. In anticipation of increased sales activity during our fourth fiscal quarter, we incur additional expenses by hiring a significant number of temporary employees to supplement our permanent staff. Our fourth fiscal quarter has accounted for and is expected to continue to account for a disproportionate percentage of our total annual revenues. For each of fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003 approximately 40.0% of our annual net revenues were generated in our fiscal fourth quarter. Since fiscal 1999, we have not generated net income in any fiscal quarter other than a fiscal fourth quarter. If our revenues are below seasonal expectations during the fourth fiscal quarter, our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. Due to the nature of our business, it is difficult to predict the seasonal pattern of our sales and the impact of this seasonality on our business and financial results. In the future, our seasonal sales patterns may become more pronounced, may strain our personnel, customer service operations, fulfillment operations and shipment activities and may cause a shortfall in revenues compared to expenses in a given period. In addition, if too many consumers access our partners’ e-commerce businesses within a short period of time due to increased holiday or other demand, we may experience system interruptions that make our partners’ e-commerce businesses unavailable or prevent us from transmitting orders to our fulfillment operations, which may reduce the volume of goods we sell as well as the attractiveness of our partners’ e-commerce businesses to consumers. In anticipation of increased sales activity during our fourth fiscal quarter, we and our partners increase our inventory levels. If we and our partners do not increase inventory levels for popular products in sufficient amounts or are unable to restock popular products in a timely manner, we and our partners may fail to meet customer demand which could reduce the attractiveness of our partners’ e-commerce businesses. Alternatively, if we overstock products, we may be required to take significant inventory markdowns or write-offs, which could reduce profits. We have expanded into new categories and may expand into additional new categories in the future. If we do not successfully execute on the expansion of our operations into these new categories, our growth could be limited. While we have operated in e-commerce since 1999, we did not expand beyond the sporting goods category until 2001. Today our operations have expanded into categories including apparel, beauty, consumer electronics, entertainment and home. Each category in which we operate requires unique capabilities and increases the complexity of our business. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue in a category, we may not be able to cover the incremental staffing and expenses required to support the unique capabilities required by that category. If we do expand into new categories, there can be no assurance that we will do so successfully. Consumers are constantly changing their buying preferences. If we fail to anticipate these changes and adjust our inventory accordingly, we could experience lower sales, higher inventory markdowns and lower margins for the inventory that we own. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability and our partners’ ability to anticipate and respond to consumer trends with respect to products sold through the e-commerce businesses we operate. Consumers’ tastes are subject to frequent and significant changes. In order to be successful, we and our partners must accurately predict consumers’ tastes and avoid overstocking or understocking products. If we or our partners fail to identify and respond to changes in merchandising and consumer preferences, sales on our partners’ e-commerce businesses could suffer and we or our partners could be required to mark down unsold inventory. This would depress our profit margins. In addition, any failure to keep pace with changes in consumers’ tastes could result in lost opportunities which could reduce sales. 2004 Annual Report 11 Table of Contents High merchandise returns or shrinkage rates could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot be assured that inventory loss and theft, or “shrinkage,” and merchandise returns will not increase in the future. If merchandise returns are significant, or our shrinkage rate increases, our revenues and costs of operations could be adversely affected. Our growth depends, in part, on our ability to add and launch new partners on a timely basis and on favorable terms. One of the principal components of our growth strategy is to add new partners. If we are unable to add our targeted number of new partners or if we are unable to add new partners on favorable terms, our growth may be limited. If we are unable to add and launch new partners within the time frames projected by us, we may not be able to achieve our targeted results in the expected periods. In addition, our ability to add new partners depends on the quality of the services we provide and our reputation. To the extent that we have difficulties with the quality of the services we provide or have operational issues that adversely affect our reputation, it could adversely impact our ability to add new partners. Because competition for new partners is intense, we may not be able to add new partners on favorable terms, or at all. Our success is tied to the success of the partners for which we operate e-commerce businesses. Our success is substantially dependent upon the success of the partners for which we operate e-commerce businesses. The retail business in the United States is intensely competitive. If our partners were to have financial difficulties or seek protection from their creditors or if they were to suffer impairment of their brand, it could adversely affect our ability to maintain and grow our business. Our business could also be adversely affected if our partners’ marketing, brands or retail stores are not successful or if our partners reduce their marketing or number of retail stores. We enter into contracts with our partners. We derived 62% of our revenue in fiscal 2004 from five partners. If we do not maintain good working relationships with our partners, particularly our large partners, or perform as required under these agreements, it could adversely affect our business. The contracts with our partners establish complex relationships between our partners and us. We spend a significant amount of time and effort to maintain our relationships with our partners and address the issues that from time to time may arise from these complex relationships. For fiscal 2004, sales to customers through one of our partner’s e-commerce businesses accounted for 27% of our revenue, sales through another one of our partner’s e-commerce businesses accounted for 13% of our revenue and sales through our top five partners’ e-commerce businesses accounted for 62% of our revenue. For fiscal 2003, sales to customers through one of our partner’s e-commerce businesses accounted for 28% of our revenue, sales to customers through another one of our partner’s e-commerce businesses accounted for 17% of our revenue, and sales through our top five partners’ e-commerce businesses accounted for 70% of our revenue. Our partners could decide not to renew their agreements at the end of their respective terms. Additionally, if we do not perform as required under these agreements or if we breach these agreements, our partners could seek to terminate their agreements prior to the end of their respective terms or seek damages from us. Loss of our existing partners, particularly our major partners, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and our partners must develop and maintain relationships with key manufacturers to obtain a sufficient assortment and quantity of quality merchandise on acceptable commercial terms. If we or our partners are unable to do so, it could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. For the e-commerce businesses for which we own inventory, we primarily purchase products from the manufacturers and distributors of the products. For the e-commerce businesses for which our partners own 2004 Annual Report 12 Table of Contents inventory, our partners typically purchase products from the manufacturers and distributors of products or source their own products. If we or our partners are unable to develop and maintain relationships with these manufacturers, distributors or sources we or our partners may be unable to obtain or continue to carry a sufficient assortment and quantity of quality merchandise on acceptable commercial terms and our partners’ e-commerce businesses and our business could be adversely impacted. We do not have written contracts with some of our suppliers. During fiscal 2004, we purchased 43.1% of the total amount of inventory we purchased from one manufacturer. In addition, during fiscal 2003, we purchased 37.7% of the total amount of inventory we purchased from the same manufacturer. While we have a contract with this manufacturer, this manufacturer and other manufacturers could stop selling products to us or our partners and may ask us or our partners to remove their products or logos from our partners’ Web sites. If we or our partners are unable to obtain products directly from manufacturers, especially popular brand manufacturers, we or our partners may not be able to obtain the same or comparable merchandise in a timely manner or on acceptable commercial terms. We rely on our ability to enter into marketing and promotional agreements with online services, search engines, directories and other Web sites to drive traffic to the e-commerce businesses we operate. If we are unable to enter into or properly develop these marketing and promotional agreements, our ability to generate revenue could be adversely affected. We have entered into marketing and promotional agreements with online services, search engines, directories and other Web sites to provide content, advertising banners and other links to our partners’ e-commerce businesses. We expect to rely on these agreements as significant sources of traffic to our partners’ e-commerce businesses and to generate new customers. If we are unable to maintain these relationships or enter into new agreements on acceptable terms, our ability to attract new customers could be harmed. Further, many of the parties with which we may have online advertising arrangements provide advertising services for other marketers of goods. As a result, these parties may be reluctant to enter into or maintain relationships with us. Failure to achieve sufficient traffic or generate sufficient revenue from purchases originating from third parties may limit our partners’ and our ability to maintain market share and revenue. If we experience problems in our fulfillment operations, our business could be adversely affected. Although we operate our own fulfillment centers, we rely upon multiple third parties for the shipment of our products. We also rely upon certain vendors to ship products directly to consumers. As a result, we are subject to the risks associated with the ability of these vendors and other third parties to successfully and in a timely manner fulfill and ship customer orders. The failure of these vendors and other third parties to provide these services, or the termination or interruption of these services, could adversely affect the satisfaction of consumers, which could result in reduced sales by our partners’ e-commerce businesses. Under some of our partner agreements, we maintain the inventory of our partners in our fulfillment centers. Our failure to properly handle and protect such inventory could adversely affect our relationship with our partners. A disruption in our operations could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any disruption to our operations, including system, network, telecommunications, software or hardware failures, and any damage to our physical locations, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to damage or interruption from: • fire, flood, hurricane, tornado, earthquake or other natural disasters; • power losses, interruptions or brown-outs; 2004 Annual Report 13 Table of Contents • Internet, telecommunications or data network failures; • physical and electronic break-ins or security breaches; • computer viruses; • acts of terrorism; and • other similar events. If any of these events occur, it could result in interruptions, delays or cessations in service to customers of our partners’ e-commerce businesses and adversely impact our partners’ e-commerce businesses. These events could also prevent us from fulfilling orders for our partners’ e-commerce businesses. Our partners might seek significant compensation from us for their losses. Even if unsuccessful, this type of claim likely would be time consuming and costly for us to address and damaging to our reputation. Our primary data centers are located at two facilities of a third-party hosting company. We do not control the security, maintenance or operation of these facilities, which are also susceptible to similar disasters and problems. Our insurance policies may not cover us for losses related to these events, and even if they do, may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. Any system failure that causes an interruption of the availability of our partners’ e-commerce businesses could reduce the attractiveness of our partners’ e-commerce businesses to consumers and result in reduced revenues, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we do not respond to rapid technological changes, our services and proprietary technology and systems may become obsolete. The Internet and e-commerce are constantly changing. Due to the costs and management time required to introduce new services and enhancements, we may be unable to respond to rapid technological changes in a timely enough manner to avoid our services becoming uncompetitive. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our partners’ e-commerce businesses. If competitors introduce new services using new technologies or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our partners’ existing e-commerce businesses and our services and proprietary technology and systems may become uncompetitive and our ability to attract and retain customers may be at risk. Developing our e-commerce platform, offering, our partners’ e-commerce businesses and other proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks. We may use new technologies ineffectively or fail to adapt our e-commerce platform, our partners’ e-commerce businesses and our technology to meet the requirements of partners and customers or emerging industry standards. Additionally, the vendors we use for our partners’ e-commerce businesses may not provide the level of service we expect or may not be able to provide their product or service to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our success is tied to the continued growth in the use of the Internet and the adequacy of the Internet infrastructure. Our future success is substantially dependent upon continued growth in the use of the Internet. The number of users and advertisers on the Internet may not increase and commerce over the Internet may not continue to grow for a number of reasons, including: • actual or perceived lack of security of information or privacy protection; • lack of access and ease of use; • congestion of traffic on the Internet; 2004 Annual Report 14 Table of Contents • inconsistent quality of service and lack of availability of cost-effective, high-speed service; • possible disruptions, computer viruses or other damage to Internet servers or to users’ computers; • governmental regulation; • uncertainty regarding intellectual property ownership; • lack of high-speed modems and other communications equipment; and • increases in the cost of accessing the Internet. Published reports have also indicated that growth in the use of the Internet has resulted in users experiencing delays, transmission errors and other difficulties. As currently configured, the Internet may not support an increase in the number or requirements of users. In addition, there have been outages and delays on the Internet as a result of damage to the current infrastructure. The amount of traffic on our partners’ Web sites could decline materially if there are outages or delays in the future. The use of the Internet may also decline if there are delays in the development or adoption of modifications by third parties that are required to support increased levels of activity on the Internet. If any of the foregoing occurs, the number of our partners’ customers could decrease. In addition, we may be required to spend significant capital to adapt our operations to any new or emerging technologies relating to the Internet. Consumers may be unwilling to use the Internet to purchase goods. Our future success depends heavily upon the general public’s willingness to use the Internet as a means to purchase goods. The failure of the Internet to continue to develop as an effective commercial tool would seriously damage our future operations. If consumers are unwilling to use the Internet to conduct business, our business may not continue to grow. The Internet may not succeed as a medium of commerce because of security risks and delays in developing elements of the needed Internet infrastructure, such as a reliable network, high-speed modems, high-speed communication lines and other enabling technologies. Third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of customer transaction data and confidential information stored on our servers. Any breach could cause customers to lose confidence in the security of our partners’ e-commerce businesses and choose not to purchase from those businesses. Our security measures may not effectively prevent others from obtaining improper access to the information on our partners’ e-commerce businesses. If someone is able to circumvent our security measures, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt the operation of our partners’ e-commerce businesses. Concerns about the security and privacy of transactions over the Internet could inhibit our growth. We and/or our partners may be unable to protect our and their proprietary technology and intellectual property rights or keep up with that of competitors. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our intellectual property rights in the core technology and other components of our e-commerce platform including our software and other proprietary information, and material, and our ability to develop technologies that are as good as or better than our competitors. We may be unable to deter infringement or misappropriation of our software and other proprietary information and material, detect unauthorized use or take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. In addition, the failure of our partners to protect their intellectual property rights, including their trademarks and domain names, could impair our operations. Our competitors could, without violating our intellectual property rights, develop technologies that are as good as or better than our technology. Protecting our intellectual property and other proprietary rights can be expensive. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and consequently harm our operating results. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights in our software and other information and material or to develop technologies that are as good or better than as our competitors’ could put us at a disadvantage to our competitors. These failures could have a material adverse effect on our business. 2004 Annual Report 15 Table of Contents We may be subject to intellectual property claims or competition or trade practices claims that could be costly and could disrupt our business. Third parties may assert that our business or technologies infringe or misappropriate their intellectual property rights. Third parties may claim that we do not have the right to offer certain services or products or to present specific images or logos on our partners’ e-commerce businesses, or we have infringed their patents, trademarks, copyrights or other rights. We may in the future receive claims that we are engaging in unfair competition or other illegal trade practices. We may be unsuccessful in defending against these claims, which could result in substantial damages, fines or other penalties. The resolution of a claim could also require us to change how we do business, redesign our service offering or partners’ e-commerce businesses or enter into burdensome royalty or license agreements. These license or royalty agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, in the event of a successful claim of infringement. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover every claim that third parties could assert against us. Even unsuccessful claims could result in significant legal fees and other expenses, diversion of management’s time and disruptions in our business. Any of these claims could also harm our reputation. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, which could harm our margins and our business. The market for the development and operation of e-commerce businesses is continuously evolving and is intensely competitive. Increased competition could result in fewer successful opportunities to partner, price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We primarily compete with companies that can offer a full range of e-commerce services similar to the services we provide through our e-commerce platform, such as the Services Division of Amazon, Digital River, Commerce5, Foot Locker (principally in the sporting goods category) and ValueVision Media. We also compete with companies that provide some components of an e-commerce solution similar to those that we offer through our e-commerce platform, including Web site developers, third-party consultants and third-party fulfillment and customer service providers. In addition, we compete with companies that provide components of an e-commerce solution that allow others to develop and operate their e-commerce businesses in-house. We also compete with online and offline businesses of a variety of retailers and manufacturers in our targeted categories. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. They may be able to secure merchandise from vendors on more favorable terms and may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies. They may also receive investments from or enter into other commercial relationships with larger, well-established companies with greater financial resources. Competitors in both the retail and e-commerce services industries also may be able to devote more resources to technology development and marketing than we do. We currently do not offer e-commerce services outside of the United States and Canada. Some of our competitors offer international e-commerce services and our existing and potential partners may find these competitors more attractive for that reason. Competition in the e-commerce industry may intensify. Other companies in the retail and e-commerce service industries may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. Additionally, there are relatively low barriers to entry into the e-commerce market. As various Internet market segments obtain large, loyal customer bases, participants in those segments may expand into the market segments in which we operate. In addition, new and expanded Web technologies may further intensify the competitive nature of online retail. The nature of the Internet as an electronic marketplace facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping and renders it inherently more competitive than conventional retailing formats. This increased competition may reduce our sales, our ability to operate profitably, or both. 2004 Annual Report 16 Table of Contents We may be subject to product liability claims that could be costly and time-consuming. We sell products manufactured by third parties, some of which may be defective. We also sell some products that are manufactured by third parties for us. If any product that we sell were to cause physical injury or injury to property, the injured party or parties could bring claims against us as the retailer or manufacturer of the product. These claims may not be covered by insurance and, even if they are, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover every claim that could be asserted. Similarly, we could be subject to claims that customers of our partners’ e-commerce businesses were harmed due to their reliance on our product information, product selection guides, advice or instructions. If a successful claim were brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, it could adversely affect our business. Even unsuccessful claims could result in the expenditure of funds and management time and adverse publicity and could have a negative impact on our business. We may be liable if third parties misappropriate our customers’ personal information. Additionally, we are limited in our ability to use and disclose customer information. Any security breach could expose us to risks of loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations. If third parties are able to penetrate our network or telecommunications security or otherwise misappropriate our customers’ personal information or credit card information or if we give third parties improper access to our customers’ personal information or credit card information, we could be subject to liability. This liability could include claims for unauthorized purchases with credit card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims. They could also include claims for other misuses of personal information, including unauthorized marketing purposes. These claims could result in litigation. Liability for misappropriation of this information could be significant. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission and state agencies regularly investigate various companies’ uses of customers’ personal information. We could incur additional expenses if new regulations regarding the security or use of personal information are introduced or if government agencies investigate our privacy practices. Credit card fraud and other fraud could adversely affect our business. We do not carry insurance against the risk of credit card fraud and other fraud, so the failure to adequately control fraudulent transactions could increase our expenses. To date, we have not suffered material losses due to fraud. However, we may in the future suffer losses as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit card data. Under current credit card practices, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions because we do not obtain a cardholder’s signature. With respect to checks and installment sales, we generally are liable for fraudulent transactions. If one or more states successfully assert that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of our merchandise, our business could be harmed. We currently collect sales or other similar taxes only for goods sold by us and shipped into certain states. One or more local, state or foreign jurisdictions may seek to impose sales tax collection obligations on us or our partners and other out-of-state companies that engage in e-commerce. Recently, certain large retailers, such as Wal-Mart, Target and Toys “R” Us, expanded their collection of sales tax on purchases made through affiliated Web sites. Our business could be adversely affected if one or more states or any foreign country successfully asserts that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of merchandise through the e-commerce businesses we operate. In September 2003, we learned that we, along with several of our partners, were named in an action in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, by a private litigant who is alleging that we, along with certain of our partners, wrongfully failed to collect and remit sales and use taxes for sales of personal property to customers in Illinois and knowingly created records and statements falsely stating we were not required to collect or remit such taxes. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, unpaid taxes, interest, attorneys’ fees, civil penalties of up to $10,000 per violation, and treble damages under the Illinois Whistleblower Reward and Protection Act. We are 2004 Annual Report 17 Table of Contents aware that this same private litigant has filed similar actions against retailers in other states, and it is possible that we and/or partners may have been or may be named in similar cases in other states. We do not believe that we are liable under existing laws and regulations for any failure to collect sales or other taxes relating to Internet sales in Illinois and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. However, we may incur substantial expenses in defending against this claim. In the event of a determination adverse to us, we may incur substantial monetary liability, and be required to change our business practices, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Existing or future law or regulations could harm our business or marketing efforts. We are subject to federal, state and local laws applicable to businesses in general and to e-commerce specifically. Due to the increasing growth and popularity of the Internet and e-commerce, many laws and regulations relating to the Internet and online retailing are proposed and considered at the federal, state and local levels. These laws and regulations could cover issues such as taxation, pricing, content, distribution, quality and delivery of products and services, electronic contracts, intellectual property rights, user privacy and information security. For example, at least one state has enacted, and other states have proposed, legislation limiting the uses of personal information collected online or requiring collectors of information to establish procedures to disclose and notify users of privacy and security policies, obtain consent from users for use and disclosure of information, or provide users with the ability to access, correct and delete stored information. Even in the absence of such legislation, the Federal Trade Commission has settled several proceedings resulting in consent decrees in which Internet companies have been required to establish programs regulating the manner in which personal information is collected from users and provided to third parties. We could become a party to a similar enforcement proceeding. These regulatory and enforcement efforts could also harm our ability to collect demographic and personal information from users, which could be costly or adversely affect our marketing efforts. The applicability of existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, intellectual property rights, taxation, libel, obscenity, qualification to do business and export or import matters could also harm our business. Many of these laws may not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet or online retailing. Some laws that do contemplate or address those unique issues, such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, are only beginning to be interpreted by the courts and their applicability and reach are therefore uncertain. These current and future laws and regulations could reduce our ability to operate efficiently. From time to time, we may acquire or invest in other companies. There are risks associated with potential acquisitions and investments and we may not achieve the expected benefits of future acquisitions and investments. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may make investments in complementary companies, products or technologies or we may purchase other companies. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any investment or acquisition. We may be subject to unanticipated problems and liabilities of acquired companies. We may not be able to successfully assimilate the additional personnel, operations, acquired technology or products or services into our business. Any acquisition may strain our existing financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures. If we do not successfully integrate any acquired business, the expenditures on integration efforts will reduce our cash position without us being able to realize the expected benefits of the acquisition. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. Further, the physical expansion in facilities that could occur as a result of any acquisition may result in disruptions that could seriously impair our business. Finally, we may have to use our cash resources, incur debt or issue additional equity securities to pay for other acquisitions or investments, which could increase our leverage or be dilutive to our stockholders. 2004 Annual Report 18 Table of Contents The consideration we received in exchange for the sale of certain assets related to Ashford.com, Inc. may be subject to a number of risks. In connection with the sale of certain assets of Ashford.com to Odimo Acquisition Corp., we received shares of Odimo common stock. Odimo recently became a public company and a well-established public market for its common stock does not exist. If Odimo fails to perform, the value of the Odimo common stock we hold may decrease below the amount at which we have valued this stock on our balance sheet and we may be required to take a charge to earnings. We may expand our business internationally, causing our business to become increasingly susceptible to numerous international business risks and challenges. We believe that the current globalization of the economy requires businesses to consider pursuing international expansion. We recently began shipping certain products to Canada and other countries. In the future, we may expand our international efforts. International sales are subject to inherent risks and challenges that could adversely affect our business, including: • the need to develop new supplier and manufacturer relationships, particularly because major manufacturers may require that our international operations deal with local distributors; • compliance with international legal and regulatory requirements and tariffs; • managing fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; • potential adverse tax consequences; • uncertain political and economic climates; • potentially higher incidence of fraud; • price controls or other restrictions on foreign currency; and • difficulties in obtaining export and import licenses and compliance with applicable export controls. Any negative impact from our international business efforts could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition as a whole. In addition, gains and losses on the conversion of foreign payments into U.S. dollars may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and fluctuating exchange rates could cause reduced revenues and/or gross margins from non-dollar-denominated international sales. In addition, if we expand internationally, we may face additional competition challenges. Local companies may have a substantial competitive advantage because of their greater understanding of, and focus on, the local customer. In addition, governments in foreign jurisdictions may regulate e-commerce or other online services in such areas as content, privacy, network security, copyright, encryption, taxation, or distribution. We also may not be able to hire, train, motivate and manage the required personnel, which may limit our growth in international market segments. The uncertainty regarding the general economy may reduce our revenues. Our revenue and rate of growth depends on the continued growth of demand for the products offered by our partners, and our business is affected by general economic and business conditions. A decrease in demand, whether caused by changes in consumer spending or a weakening of the U.S. economy or the local economies outside of the United States where we sell products, may result in decreased revenue or growth. Terrorist attacks and armed hostilities could create economic and consumer uncertainty that could adversely affect our revenue or growth. 2004 Annual Report 19 Table of Contents Our success is dependent upon our executive officers and other key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the contribution of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly Michael G. Rubin, chairman of the board, co-president and chief executive officer. Although we have employment agreements with most of our executive officers and key personnel, these employees could terminate their employment with us at any time. Due to the competition for highly qualified personnel, we cannot be sure that we will be able to retain or attract executive, managerial or other key personnel. We have obtained key person life insurance for Mr. Rubin in the amount of $9.0 million. We have not obtained key person life insurance for any of our other executive officers or key personnel. We may be unable to hire and retain skilled technical, operations, merchandising, sales, marketing and business management personnel which could limit our growth. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to identify, attract, retain and motivate skilled technical, operations, merchandising, sales, marketing and business management personnel. We intend to continue to seek to hire a significant number of skilled personnel. Due to intense competition for these individuals from our competitors and other employers, we may not be able to attract or retain highly qualified personnel in the future. Our failure to attract and retain the experienced and highly trained personnel that are integral to our business may limit our growth. There are limitations on the liabilities of our directors and executive officers. Under certain circumstances, we are obligated to indemnify our directors and executive officers against liability and expenses incurred by them in their service to us. Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and under Delaware law, our directors are not liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty, except for liability for breach of a director’s duty of loyalty, acts or omissions by a director not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, dividend payments or stock repurchases that are unlawful under Delaware law or any transaction in which a director has derived an improper personal benefit. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with each of our directors and executive officers. These agreements, among other things, require us to indemnify each director and executive officer for certain expenses, including attorneys’ fees, judgments, fines and settlement amounts, incurred by any such person in any action or proceeding, including any action by us or in our right, arising out of the person’s services as one of our directors or executive officers. The costs associated with actions requiring indemnification under these agreements could be harmful to our business. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders and partners could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business, the trading price of our common stock and our ability to retain our current partners and obtain new partners. Beginning in early fiscal 2004, we began a process to document and evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. In this regard, management has been dedicating internal resources, has engaged outside consultants and has adopted a detailed work plan to (i) assess and document the adequacy of internal controls over financial reporting, (ii) take steps to improve control processes, where appropriate, (iii) validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and (iv) implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to correct any issues in the design or operating effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential stockholders and partners could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business, the trading price of our common stock and our ability to retain our current partners and obtain new partners. 2004 Annual Report 20 Table of Contents A change in accounting standards for employee stock options is expected to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations and earnings per share. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123R “Share-Based Payment,” or FAS 123R. FAS 123R requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values, beginning with the first interim or annual period after June 15, 2005. In addition, FAS 123R will cause unrecognized expense related to options vesting after the date of initial adoption to be recognized as a charge to results of operations over the remaining vesting period. We are required to adopt FAS 123R in our third quarter of 2005, beginning July 3, 2005. We are evaluating the requirements of FAS 123R and expect that we will record substantial non cash compensation expenses. The adoption of FAS 123R is not expected to have a significant effect on our financial condition or cash flows but is expected to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations and earnings per share. Risk Related to Our Common Stock Our operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly, which may cause the market price of our common stock to be volatile. Our annual and quarterly operating results have and may continue to fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Because our operating results may be volatile and difficult to predict, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. Our operating results may also fall below our published expectations and the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which likely will cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. Factors that may cause our operating results to fluctuate or harm our business include but are not limited to the following: • our ability to obtain new partners or to retain existing partners; • the performance of one or more of our partner’s e-commerce businesses; • our and our partners’ ability to obtain new customers at a reasonable cost or encourage repeat purchases; • the number of visitors to the e-commerce businesses operated by us or our ability to convert these visitors into customers; • our and our partners’ ability to offer an appealing mix of products or to sell products that we purchase; • our ability to adequately develop, maintain and upgrade our partners’ e-commerce businesses or the technology and systems we use to process customers’ orders and payments; • the timing and costs of upgrades and developments of our systems and infrastructure; • the ability of our competitors to offer new or superior e-commerce businesses, services or products; • price competition that results in lower profit margins or losses; • the seasonality of our business, especially the importance of our fiscal fourth quarter to our business; • our inability to obtain or develop specific products or brands or unwillingness of vendors to sell their products to us; • unanticipated fluctuations in the amount of consumer spending on various products that we sell, which tend to be discretionary spending items; • the cost of advertising and the amount of free shipping and other promotions we offer; 2004 Annual Report 21 Table of Contents • increases in the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our operations; • our inability to manage our shipping costs on a profitable basis or unexpected increases in shipping costs or delivery times, particularly during the holiday season; • inflation of prices of fuel and gasoline and other raw materials that impact our costs; • technical difficulties, system security breaches, system downtime or Internet slowdowns; • our inability to manage inventory levels or control inventory shrinkage; • our inability to manage fulfillment operations or provide adequate levels of customer service or our inability to forecast the proper staffing levels in fulfillment and customer service; • an increase in the level of our product returns or our inability to effectively process returns; • government regulations related to the Internet or e-commerce which could increase the costs associated with operating our businesses, including requiring the collection of sales tax on all purchases through the e-commerce businesses we operate; and • unfavorable economic conditions in general or specific to the Internet or e-commerce, which could reduce demand for the products sold through our partners’ e-commerce businesses. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate that any cash dividends will be declared or paid in the foreseeable future. As a result, holders of our common stock will not receive a return, if any, on their investment unless they sell their shares of our common stock. We are controlled by certain principal stockholders. As of March 15, 2005, Michael G. Rubin, our chairman, co-president and chief executive officer, beneficially owned 19.3%, funds affiliated with SOFTBANK Holdings Inc., or SOFTBANK, beneficially owned 20.7%, and QVC beneficially owned 20.3% of our outstanding common stock, including warrants and options to purchase common stock, which are exercisable on or before May 14, 2005. If they decide to act together, any two of Mr. Rubin, SOFTBANK, and QVC would be in a position to exercise considerable control, and all three would be in a position to exercise complete control, over most matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election or removal of directors, approval of significant corporate transactions and the ability generally to direct our affairs. Furthermore, pursuant to stock purchase agreements, SOFTBANK and QVC each have the right to designate up to two members of our board of directors. This concentration of ownership and SOFTBANK’s and QVC’s right to designate members to our board of directors may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. See “Management — Right to Designate Directors.” Furthermore, Mr. Rubin has entered into voting agreements with each of SOFTBANK and QVC, and SOFTBANK and QVC have entered into voting agreements with each other. The parties to these voting agreements have agreed to support the election of the directors designated by each of the other parties. See “Management — Voting Agreements.” It may be difficult for a third-party to acquire us and this could depress our stock price. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing transactions that involve any actual or threatened change in control. Under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our board of directors may issue preferred stock from time to time in one or more series with such terms, rights, preferences and designations as the board may determine and without any vote of the stockholders, unless otherwise required by law. 2004 Annual Report 22 Table of Contents In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, restricts certain transactions and business combinations between a corporation and a stockholder owning 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock for a period of three years from the date the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder. In addition to discouraging a third party from seeking to acquire control of us, the foregoing provisions could impair the ability of existing stockholders to remove and replace our management and/or our board of directors. Because many investors consider a change of control a desirable path to liquidity, delaying or preventing a change in control of our company may reduce the number of investors interested in our common stock, which could depress our stock price. See “— We are controlled by certain principal stockholders.” The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The price of our common stock on the Nasdaq National Market has been volatile. During fiscal 2004, the high and low sale prices of our common stock ranged from $7.04 to $18.72 per share. During fiscal 2003, the high and low sale prices of our common stock ranged from $1.55 to $13.05 per share. We expect that the market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate. Our common stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: • our performance and prospects; • the performance and prospects of our partners; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate; • changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts; • general financial and other market conditions; and • general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 