ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain risks that management believes are specific to our business. This should not be viewed as an all inclusive list and the order is not intended as an indicator of the level of importance. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. economy or the U.S. banking system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) which, among other measures, authorizes the U.S. Department of the Treasury (“Treasury”) to purchase from financial institutions and their holding companies up to $700 billion in mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities and certain other financial instruments, including debt and equity securities issued by financial institutions and their holding companies, under a troubled asset relief program, or “TARP.” The purpose of TARP is to restore confidence and stability to the U.S. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. Under the TARP Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”), Treasury is purchasing equity securities from participating institutions. On January 23, 2009, as part of CPP, we sold (i) 52,625 shares of the Registrant’s Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (the “Series A Preferred Stock”) and (ii) a warrant to purchase 175,105 shares of our Common Stock for an aggregate purchase price of $52.6 million in cash. The EESA also increased federal deposit insurance on most deposit accounts from $100,000 to $250,000. This increase is in place until the end of 2013 and is not covered by deposit insurance premiums paid by the banking industry. The EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the U.S. Congress, Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. More recently, on February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) was signed into law. ARRA, more commonly known as the economic stimulus bill or economic recovery package, is intended to stimulate the economy and provides for broad infrastructure, education and health spending. On October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced the establishment of a temporary liquidity guarantee program to provide full deposit insurance for all non-interest bearing transaction accounts and guarantees of certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by FDIC-insured institutions and their holding companies. Insured institutions were automatically covered by this program from October 14, 2008 until December 5, 2008, unless they opted out prior to that date. Under the program, the FDIC will guarantee timely payment of newly issued senior unsecured debt issued on or before June 30, 2010. The debt includes all newly issued unsecured senior debt including promissory notes, commercial paper and inter-bank funding. The aggregate coverage for an institution may not exceed 125% of its debt outstanding on September 30, 2008 that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009, or, for certain insured institutions, 2% of liabilities as of September - 26 - - 30, 2008. The guarantee will extend to June 30, 2012 even if the maturity of the debt is after that date. The Bank pays a fee equal to 300 basis points for its participation in the unsecured debt guarantee program. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. economy and banking system. The EESA, the ARRA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premiums and assessments will adversely impact our earnings. FDIC insurance premiums have increased substantially in 2009 already, and we expect to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future. A large number of bank failures have significantly depleted the deposit insurance fund and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. On May 22, 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation adopted a final rule levying a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. The special assessment was payable on September 30, 2009. We recorded an expense of $1.7 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2009, to reflect the special assessment. The final rule permits the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to levy up to two additional special assessments of up to five basis points each during 2009 if the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation estimates that the Deposit Insurance Fund reserve ratio will fall to a level that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation believes would adversely affect public confidence or to a level that will be close to or below zero. We participate in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, or TLG, for noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts. Banks that participate in the TLG’s noninterest-bearing transaction account guarantee will pay the FDIC an annual assessment of 10 basis points on the amounts in such accounts above the amounts covered by FDIC deposit insurance. To the extent that these TLG assessments are insufficient to cover any loss or expenses arising from the TLG program, the FDIC is authorized to impose an emergency special assessment on all FDIC-insured depository institutions. The FDIC has authority to impose charges for the TLG program upon depository institution holding companies, as well. The FDIC has extended the TLG to June 30, 2010, and increased the fee to banks that elect to participate in the extension to 15 to 25 basis points, depending on the institution’s risk category. WSFS Bank elected to continue to participate in the TLG. These changes will cause our deposit insurance expense to increase. These actions could significantly increase our noninterest expense for the foreseeable future. Any further special assessments that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation levies will be recorded as an expense during the appropriate period. In addition, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation increased the general assessment rate and our prior credits for federal deposit insurance were fully utilized during the quarter ended June 30, 2009. Therefore, our Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation general insurance premium expense will increase compared to prior periods. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC issued a final rule requiring all banks to prepay their estimated assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 on December 30, 2009. Under the rule, the assessment rate for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for 2010 will be based on each bank’s base assessment rate in effect as of September 30, 2009, and the assessment rate for 2011 and 2012 will be equal to such September 30, 2009 assessment rate plus an additional three basis points. In addition, each institution’s base assessment rate for each period would be calculated using its assessment base as of September 30, 2009, adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. Based on the final rule, we were required to make a payment of $21.3 million to the FDIC on December 30, 2009 and to record the pre-payment as a prepaid expense, which will be amortized to expense over three years. Whether this prepayment will provide sufficient funding is uncertain. There is no assurance the FDIC will not require additional funding from the banking system which may negatively impact us. - 27 - - The prolonged deep recession, difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business. We are particularly exposed to downturns in the U. S. housing market. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans that resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased credit supply in part due to the reduction in non-bank providers of credit in the marketplace. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Competition among depository institutions for deposits has increased significantly. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits or borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We do not expect that the difficult market conditions will improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • An increase in the number of borrowers unable to repay their loans in accordance with the original terms • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. • We also may be required to pay even higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums than the recently increased level, because financial institution failures resulting from the depressed market conditions have depleted and may continue to deplete the deposit insurance fund and reduce its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. • Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or the Federal Home Loan Bank on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events. • We may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. Concentration of loans in our primary market area, which has recently experienced an economic downturn, may increase risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the State of Delaware, southeastern Pennsylvania and northern Virginia, as nearly all of our loans are to customers in this market. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in these markets have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans as well as our ability to originate new loans. As such, a continuation of the decline in real estate valuations in these markets would lower the value of the collateral securing those loans. In addition, a continued weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could negatively affect our financial results. - 28 - - If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans, our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. Our loan portfolio includes a substantial amount of commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans. The credit risk related to these types of loans is greater than the risk related to residential loans. Our commercial loan portfolio, which includes commercial and industrial loans and commercial real estate loans, totaled $1.9 billion at December 31, 2009, comprising 74% of total loans. Commercial and industrial loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a greater degree of risk of nonpayment or late payment than home equity loans or residential mortgage loans. Any significant failure to pay or late payments by our customers would hurt our earnings. The increased credit risk associated with these types of loans is a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the size of loan balances, and the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties. A significant portion of our commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loan portfolios includes a balloon payment feature. A number of factors may affect a borrower’s ability to make or refinance a balloon payment, including the financial condition of the borrower, the prevailing local economic conditions and the prevailing interest rate environment. Furthermore, commercial real estate loans secured by owner-occupied properties are dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. If the operating company suffers difficulties in terms of sales volume and/or profitability, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Loans secured by properties where repayment is dependent upon payment of rent by third party tenants or the sale of the property may be impacted by loss of tenants, lower lease rates needed to attract new tenants or the inability to sell a completed project in a timely fashion and at a profit. The collateral for our commercial loans that are secured by real estate are classified as 64% owner occupied properties and 36% non-owner occupied properties. We are subject to extensive regulation which could have an adverse effect on our operations. We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision from the Office of Thrift Supervision and the FDIC. This regulation and supervision is intended primarily for the protection of the FDIC insurance fund, our depositors and borrowers, rather than for holders of our equity securities. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of the allowance for loan losses. As a result of recent market conditions, we expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. WSFS Bank has entered into a memorandum of understanding. In December 2009, WSFS Bank entered into an informal memorandum of understanding (the “Understanding”) with the OTS. An Understanding is characterized by bank regulatory agencies as an informal action that is neither published nor made publicly available by the agencies and is used when circumstances warrant a milder response than a formal regulatory action. Regulatory actions, such as this Understanding, are on the rise as a result of the current severe economic conditions and the related impact on the banking industry. - 29 - - In accordance with the terms of the Understanding, WSFS Bank has agreed, among other things, to: (i) adopt and implement a written plan to reduce criticized assets; (ii) review and revise its policies regarding the identification, monitoring and managing the risks associated with loan concentrations for certain commercial loans and reduce concentration limits of such loans; (iii) review and revise credit administration policies and dedicate additional staffing resources to this department; (iv) implement a revised internal review program; (v) obtain prior OTS approval before increasing the amount of brokered deposits; and (vi) approve a written strategic business plan and compliance plan concerning the exercise of fiduciary powers. We are committed to expeditiously addressing and resolving all the issues raised in the Understanding and the Board of Directors and management of WSFS Bank have already initiated actions to comply with its provisions. A material failure to comply with the terms of the Understanding could subject the Bank to additional regulatory actions and further regulation by the OTS, or result in a formal action or constraints on the Bank’s business, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. The fiscal, monetary and regulatory policies of the Federal Government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The Federal Reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. It also can materially decrease the value of financial assets we hold, such as debt securities. Its policies also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Additionally, legislation has been introduced into each house of Congress proposing sweeping financial reforms, including the creation of a Consumer Financial Protection Agency with extensive powers. If enacted, the legislation would significantly alter not only how financial firms are regulated but also how they conduct their business. Changes in Federal Reserve policies and our regulatory environment generally are beyond our control, and we are unable to predict what changes may occur or the manner in which any future changes may affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. The securities purchase agreement between us and Treasury permits Treasury to impose additional restrictions on us retroactively. On January 23, 2009, as part of the TARP Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”), we entered into a securities purchase agreement with the Treasury pursuant to which we sold (i) 52,625 shares of the Registrant’s Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (the “Series A Preferred Stock”) and (ii) a warrant to purchase 175,105 shares of our Common Stock for an aggregate purchase price of $52.6 million in cash. The Series A Preferred Stock is included in the calculation of Tier 1 capital and pays cumulative dividends at a rate of 5% per annum for the first five years, and 9% per annum thereafter. The Treasury warrant has a 10-year term and is immediately exercisable upon its issuance, with an exercise price, subject to anti-dilution adjustments, equal to $45.08 per share of the Common Stock. The securities purchase agreement we entered into with Treasury permits Treasury to unilaterally amend the terms of the securities purchase agreement to comply with any changes in federal statutes after the date of its execution. ARRA imposed additional executive compensation and expenditure limits on all current and future TARP recipients, including us, until we have repaid the Treasury. These additional restrictions may impede our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers. ARRA also permits TARP recipients to repay the Treasury without penalty or requirement that additional capital be raised, subject to Treasury’s consultation with our primary federal regulator. The securities purchase agreement required that, for a period of three years, the Series A Preferred Stock could generally only be repaid if we raised additional capital to repay the securities and such capital qualified as Tier 1 capital. The terms of the CPP also restrict our ability to increase dividends on our common stock and undertake stock repurchase programs. Congress may impose additional restrictions in the future which may also apply retroactively. These restrictions may have a material adverse affect on our operations, revenue and financial condition, on the ability to pay dividends, our ability to attract and retain - 30 - - executive talent and restricts our ability to increase our cash dividends or undertake stock repurchase programs. We are subject to liquidity risk. Due to the continued growth in our lending operations, particularly in corporate and small business lending, our total loans have exceeded customer deposit funding. Changes in interest rates, alternative investment opportunities and other factors may make deposit gathering more difficult. Additionally, interest rate changes or disruptions in the capital markets may make the terms of the borrowings and brokered deposits less favorable and may make it difficult to sell securities when needed to provide additional liquidity. As a result, there is a risk that the cost of funding will increase or that we will not have sufficient funds to meet our obligations when they come due. The market value of our securities portfolio may be impacted by the level of interest rates and the credit quality and strength of the underlying issuers and general liquidity in the market for investment securities. If a decline in market value of a security is determined to be other than temporary, under generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to write these securities down to their estimated fair value with the amount of impairment related to credit losses recognized in earnings while the amount of impairment related to all other factors is recognized in other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2009, we owned securities classified as available for sale with an aggregate historical cost of $716.5 million and an estimated fair value of $713.9 million. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we had one security that was determined to be other than temporarily impaired with a credit loss recognized in earnings of only $86,000, although we can give no assurance that we will not have additional other than temporarily impaired securities in the future. Future changes in interest rates or the credit quality and strength of the underlying issuers may reduce the market value of these and other securities. As a result, changes in values of securities affect our equity and may impact earnings. In addition, the value of our BBB+ rated mortgage-backed security is subject to market value fluctuations. To develop a range of likely fair value prices, our valuation is highly dependent upon various observable and unobservable inputs. If the value of the observable inputs declines or as a result of economic conditions, management changes its assumptions regarding what market participants would use in pricing this asset, the value of this asset may decline. As a result, we would record any market adjustments related to this asset as a charge to earnings. We must evaluate whether any portion of our recorded goodwill is impaired. Impairment testing may result in a material, non-cash write-down of our goodwill assets and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. At December 31, 2009 we had $13.7 million of goodwill and intangible assets. We have recorded goodwill because we paid more for some of our businesses than the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets of those businesses. We test our goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment at least annually (or whenever events occur which may indicate possible impairment). Goodwill impairment begins with a comparison of the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value exceeds the carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not considered impaired. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying amount, a Step 2 impairment test is required. Determining the fair value of our reporting unit requires a high degree of subjective management assumptions. Any changes in key assumptions about our business and its prospects, changes in market conditions or other external factors, for impairment testing purposes could result in an impairment charge to earnings. - 31 - - Our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh (FHLB) stock may be subject to impairment charges in future periods if the financial condition of the FHLB declines further. We are required to hold FHLB stock as a condition of membership in the FHLB. Ownership of FHLB stock is restricted and there is no market for these securities. As of December 31, 2009, the carrying value of our FHLB stock was $39.3 million. In 2009, the FHLB reported significant losses due to numerous factors, including other-than-temporary impairment charges on its portfolio of private-label mortgage-backed securities. The FHLB announced a capital restoration plan in February 2009 which restricts it from repurchasing or redeeming capital stock or paying dividends. If the FHLB financial condition continues to decline, other-than-temporary impairment charges related to our investment in FHLB stock may occur in future periods. An additional discussion related to our evaluation of impairment of FHLB stock is included in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our Cash Connect Division relies on numerous couriers and armored car companies to transport its cash and fund the ATMs it services for our customers, and numerous networks to settle its cash. The profitability of Cash Connect is reliant upon its efficient distribution of large amounts of cash to its customers’ ATMs using an extensive network of couriers and armored car companies. It is possible those associated with a courier or armored car company could misappropriate funds belonging to Cash Connect. Cash Connect has experienced such occurrences in the past, including one in 2001 and potentially another in 2010. For additional information see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, Cash Connect settles its transactions through a number of national networks. It is possible a network could fraudulently redirect the settlement of cash belonging to Cash Connect. It is also possible Cash Connect would not have established proper policies, controls or insurance and, as a result, any misappropriation of funds could result in an impact to earnings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. - 32 - - 