ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows. In addition to these risks, our operations may also be affected by additional factors not presently known or that we currently consider immaterial to our operations. Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our liquidity and have other adverse effects on us and the market price of our common shares of beneficial interest. The U.S. and global equity and credit markets can experience significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which could cause market prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances could materially impact liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in certain cases result in the unavailability of certain types of financing. Uncertainties in the equity and credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing at reasonable terms or at all, which may negatively affect our ability to complete dispositions, form joint ventures or refinance our debt. A prolonged downturn in the equity or credit markets could cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and require us to adjust our business plan accordingly. In addition, these factors may make it more difficult for us to sell properties or adversely affect the price we receive for properties that we do sell, as prospective buyers may experience increased costs of financing or difficulties in obtaining financing. These events in the equity and credit markets may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of our common shares of beneficial interest (“common shares”) or preferred shares. These disruptions in the financial markets also may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common shares and preferred shares and other adverse effects on us or the economy generally. There can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of equity or credit financing. Among the market conditions that may affect the value of our common shares and preferred shares are the following: ¡ The attractiveness of REIT securities as compared to other securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, fixed income equity securities and debt securities; ¡ Changes in revenues or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other REITs; ¡ The degree of interest held by institutional investors; ¡ Speculation in the press or investment community; ¡ The ability of our tenants to pay rent to us and meet their other obligations to us under current lease terms; ¡ Our ability to re-lease space as leases expire; ¡ Our ability to refinance our indebtedness as it matures; ¡ Actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; ¡ Any changes in our distribution policy; ¡ Any future issuances of equity securities; ¡ Strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; ¡ General market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the real estate industry; and ¡ Domestic and international economic and political factors unrelated to our performance. The volatility in the stock market can create price and volume fluctuations that may not necessarily be comparable to operating performance. The economic performance and value of our shopping centers depend on many factors, each of which could have an adverse impact on our cash flows and operating results. The economic performance and value of our properties can be affected by many factors, including the following: ¡ Changes in the national, regional and local economic climate; ¡ Changes in environmental regulatory requirements including, but not limited to, legislation on global warming; ¡ Local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area; ¡ The attractiveness of the properties to tenants; 4 Table of Contents ¡ Competition from other available space; ¡ Our ability to provide adequate management services and to maintain our properties; ¡ Increased operating costs, if these costs cannot be passed through to tenants; ¡ The cost of periodically renovating, repairing and releasing spaces; ¡ Consequence of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the U.S.; ¡ Our ability to secure adequate insurance; ¡ Fluctuations in interest rates; ¡ Changes in real estate taxes and other expenses; and ¡ Availability of financing on acceptable terms or at all. Our properties consist primarily of neighborhood and community shopping centers and, therefore, our performance is linked to general economic conditions in the market for retail space. The market for retail space has been and may continue to be adversely affected by weakness in the national, regional and local economies where our properties are located, the adverse financial condition of some large retail companies, the ongoing consolidation in the retail sector, the excess amount of retail space in a number of markets and increasing consumer purchases through catalogues and the Internet. To the extent that any of these conditions occur, they are likely to affect market rents for retail space. In addition, we may face challenges in the management and maintenance of the properties or encounter increased operating costs, such as real estate taxes, insurance and utilities, which may make our properties unattractive to tenants. Our acquisition activities may not produce the cash flows that we expect and may be limited by competitive pressures or other factors. We intend to acquire existing commercial properties to the extent that suitable acquisitions can be made on advantageous terms. Acquisitions of commercial properties involve risks such as: ¡ Our estimates on expected occupancy and rental rates may differ from actual conditions; ¡ Our estimates of the costs of any redevelopment or repositioning of acquired properties may prove to be inaccurate; ¡ We may be unable to operate successfully in new markets where acquired properties are located, due to a lack of market knowledge or understanding of local economies; ¡ We may be unable to successfully integrate new properties into our existing operations; or ¡ We may have difficulty obtaining financing on acceptable terms or paying the operating expenses and debt service associated with acquired properties prior to sufficient occupancy. In addition, we may not be in a position or have the opportunity in the future to make suitable property acquisitions on advantageous terms due to competition for such properties with others engaged in real estate investment. Our inability to successfully acquire new properties may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Turmoil in capital markets could adversely impact acquisition activities and pricing of real estate assets. Volatility in capital markets could adversely affect acquisition activities by impacting certain factors including the tightening of underwriting standards by lenders and credit rating agencies and the significant inventory of unsold collateralized mortgage-backed securities (“CMBS”) in the market. These factors directly affect a lender’s ability to provide debt financing as well as increase the cost of available debt financing. As a result, we may not be able to obtain favorable debt financing in the future or at all. This may result in future acquisitions generating lower overall economic returns, which may adversely affect our results of operations and distributions to shareholders. Furthermore, any turmoil in the capital markets could adversely impact the overall amount of capital available to invest in real estate, which may result in price or value decreases of real estate assets. 5 Table of Contents Adverse global market and economic conditions may continue to adversely affect us and could cause us to recognize additional impairment charges or otherwise harm our performance. Market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of the availability and cost of credit, ongoing volatility in European capital markets, the U.S. mortgage market, inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues and declining equity and real estate markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for the U.S. economy. The retail shopping sector has been negatively affected by these market and economic conditions. These conditions may result in our tenants delaying lease commencements, declining to extend or renew leases upon expiration and/or renewing at lower rates. These conditions also have forced some weaker retailers, in some cases, to declare bankruptcy and/or close stores. Certain retailers have announced store closings even though they have not filed for bankruptcy protection. Lease terminations by certain tenants or a failure by certain tenants to occupy their premises in a shopping center could result in lease terminations or significant reductions in rent by other tenants in the same shopping center under the terms of some leases, in which case we may be unable to re-lease the vacated space at attractive rents or at all, and our rental payments from our continuing tenants could significantly decrease. Additionally, adverse conditions could also result in the revaluation of our investments in real estate joint ventures and partnerships, notes receivable from our real estate joint ventures and partnerships and other property related investments. We are unable to predict whether, or to what extent or for how long, these adverse market and economic conditions will persist. The continuation and/or intensification of these conditions may impede our ability to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay expenses, maintain properties, pay dividends and refinance debt. Reduction of rental income would adversely affect our profitability, our ability to meet our debt obligations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. The substantial majority of our income is derived from rental income from real property. As a result, our performance depends on our ability to collect rent from tenants. Our income and funds for distribution would be negatively affected if a significant number of our tenants, or any of our major tenants (as discussed in more detail below): ¡ Delay lease commencements; ¡ Decline to extend or renew leases upon expiration; ¡ Fail to make rental payments when due; or ¡ Close stores or declare bankruptcy. Any of these actions could result in the termination of the tenants’ lease and the loss of rental income attributable to the terminated leases. In addition, lease terminations by an anchor tenant or a failure by that anchor tenant to occupy the premises could also result in lease terminations or reductions in rent by other tenants in the same shopping centers under the terms of some leases. In these events, we cannot be sure that any tenant whose lease expires will renew that lease or that we will be able to re-lease space on economically advantageous terms. The loss of rental revenues from a number of our tenants and our inability to replace such tenants, particularly in the case of a substantial tenant with leases in multiple locations, may adversely affect our profitability, our ability to meet debt and other financial obligations and our ability to make distributions to the shareholders. We may be unable to collect balances due from tenants in bankruptcy. A tenant that files for bankruptcy protection may not continue to pay us rent. A bankruptcy filing by or relating to one of our tenants or a lease guarantor would bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from the tenant or the lease guarantor, or their property, unless the bankruptcy court permits us to do so. A tenant or lease guarantor bankruptcy could delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases and could ultimately preclude collection of these sums. If a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for damages. As a result, it is likely that we would recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims it holds, if at all. 6 Table of Contents Ongoing adverse market and economic conditions and market volatility will likely continue to make it difficult to value the properties and investments owned by us and our unconsolidated joint ventures. There may be significant uncertainty in the valuation, or in the stability of the value, of such properties and investments that could result in a substantial decrease in the value thereof. In addition, we intend to sell certain assets over the next several years. No assurance can be given that we will be able to recover the current carrying amount of all of our properties and those of our unconsolidated joint ventures and/or our goodwill in the future. Our inability to do so would require us to recognize additional impairment charges for the period in which we reached that conclusion, which could materially and adversely affect us. Our development and construction activities could adversely affect our operating results. We intend to continue the selective development and construction of retail properties in accordance with our development and underwriting policies as opportunities arise. Our development and construction activities include risks that: ¡ We may abandon development opportunities after expending resources to determine feasibility; ¡ Construction costs of a project may exceed our original estimates; ¡ Occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed property may not be sufficient to make the property profitable; ¡ Rental rates could be less than projected; ¡ Project completion may be delayed because of a number of factors, including weather, labor disruptions, construction delays or delays in receipt of zoning or other regulatory approvals, adverse economic conditions, acts of terror or other acts of violence, or acts of God (such as fires, earthquakes or floods); ¡ Financing may not be available to us on favorable terms for development of a property; ¡ We may not complete construction and lease-up on schedule, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs; and ¡ We may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. Additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for a significant cash return. If any of the above events occur, the development of properties may hinder our growth and have an adverse effect on our results of operations, including additional impairment charges. In addition, new development activities, regardless of whether or not they are ultimately successful, typically require substantial time and attention from management. There is a lack of operating history with respect to any recent acquisitions and development of properties, and we may not succeed in the integration or management of additional properties. These properties may have characteristics or deficiencies currently unknown to us that affect their value or revenue potential. It is also possible that the operating performance of these properties may decline under our management. As we acquire additional properties, we will be subject to risks associated with managing new properties, including lease-up and tenant retention. In addition, our ability to manage our growth effectively will require us to successfully integrate any new acquisitions into our existing management structure. We may not succeed with this integration or effectively manage additional properties. Also, newly acquired properties may not perform as expected. Real estate property investments are illiquid, and therefore we may not be able to dispose of properties when appropriate or on favorable terms. Real estate property investments generally cannot be disposed of quickly. In addition, the federal tax code imposes restrictions on the ability of a REIT to dispose of properties that are not applicable to other types of real estate companies. Therefore, we may not be able to quickly vary our portfolio in response to economic or other conditions promptly or on favorable terms, which could cause us to incur extended losses and reduce our cash flows and adversely affect distributions to shareholders. Our cash flows and operating results could be adversely affected by required payments of debt or related interest and other risks of our debt financing. We are generally subject to risks associated with debt financing. These risks include: ¡ Our cash flow may not satisfy required payments of principal and interest; 7 Table of Contents ¡ We may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness on our properties as necessary or the terms of the refinancing may be less favorable to us than the terms of existing debt; ¡ Required debt payments are not reduced if the economic performance of any property declines; ¡ Debt service obligations could reduce funds available for distribution to our shareholders and funds available for capital investment; ¡ Any default on our indebtedness could result in acceleration of those obligations and possible loss of property to foreclosure; and ¡ The risk that necessary capital expenditures for purposes such as re-leasing space cannot be financed on favorable terms. If a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we cannot make the mortgage payments, we may have to surrender the property to the lender with a consequent loss of any prospective income and equity value from such property. Any of these risks can place strains on our cash flows, reduce our ability to grow and adversely affect our results of operations. Property ownership through real estate partnerships and joint ventures could limit our control of those investments and reduce our expected return. Real estate partnership or joint venture investments may involve risks not otherwise present for investments made solely by us, including the possibility that our partner or co-venturer might become bankrupt, that our partner or co-venturer might at any time have different interests or goals than us, and that our partner or co-venturer may take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives. Other risks of joint venture investments could include impasse on decisions, such as a sale, because neither our partner or co-venturer nor we would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. These factors could limit the return that we receive from those investments or cause our cash flows to be lower than our estimates. Volatility in market and economic conditions may impact our partners’ ability to perform in accordance with our real estate joint venture and partnership agreements resulting in a change in control or the liquidation plans of its underlying properties. Changes in control of our investments could result as reconsiderations events are evaluated, such as amendments to our real estate joint venture and partnership agreements, changes in debt guarantees or changes in ownership due to required capital contributions. Any changes in control will result in the revaluation of our investments to fair value, which could lead to an impairment. We are unable to predict whether, or to what extent, a change in control may result or the impact of adverse market and economic conditions may have to our partners. Our financial condition could be adversely affected by financial covenants. Our credit facilities and public debt indentures under which our indebtedness is, or may be, issued contain certain financial and operating covenants, including, among other things, certain coverage ratios, as well as limitations on our ability to incur secured and unsecured indebtedness, restrictions on our ability to sell all or substantially all of our assets and engage in mergers and consolidations and certain acquisitions. These covenants could limit our ability to obtain additional funds needed to address cash shortfalls or pursue growth opportunities or transactions that would provide substantial return to our shareholders. In addition, a breach of these covenants could cause a default under or accelerate some or all of our indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 8 Table of Contents If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax as a regular corporation and could have significant tax liability. We intend to operate in a manner that allows us to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, REIT qualification requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual or quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, for which there are a limited number of judicial or administrative interpretations. Our status as a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. Accordingly, it is not certain we will be able to qualify and remain qualified as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Even a technical or inadvertent violation of the REIT requirements could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Furthermore, Congress or the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) might change the tax laws or regulations and the courts might issue new rulings, in each case potentially having retroactive effect that could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any tax year, then: ¡ We would be taxed as a regular domestic corporation, which, among other things, means that we would be unable to deduct distributions to our shareholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; ¡ Any resulting tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders, and could force us to liquidate assets or take other actions that could have a detrimental effect on our operating results; and ¡ Unless we were entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we lost our qualification, and our cash available for distribution to our shareholders would, therefore, be reduced for each of the years in which we do not qualify as a REIT. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. We may also be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and property either directly or at the level of our subsidiaries. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Compliance with REIT requirements may negatively affect our operating decisions. To maintain our status as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must meet certain requirements, on an ongoing basis, including requirements regarding our sources of income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our shareholders and the ownership of our common shares. We may also be required to make distributions to our shareholders when we do not have funds readily available for distribution or at times when our funds are otherwise needed to fund capital expenditures. As a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our annual net taxable income (excluding net capital gains) to our shareholders. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes, or our net taxable income may be greater than our cash flow available for distribution to our shareholders. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we could be required to borrow funds, sell a portion of our securities at unfavorable prices or find other sources of funds in order to meet the REIT distribution requirements. Dividends paid by REITs generally do not qualify for reduced tax rates. In general, the maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for dividends paid to individual U.S. shareholders is 15% (through 2012). Unlike dividends received from a corporation that is not a REIT, our distributions to individual shareholders generally are not eligible for the reduced rates. The future composition and quarterly cash distribution rate may change. For each of the four quarters during 2011 and 2010, we paid a cash distribution at a quarterly rate of $.275 and $.26 per common share, respectively. During the first quarter of 2009, we paid a cash distribution at a quarterly rate of $.525 per common share. Commencing with our second quarter 2009 dividend payout, we paid a cash distribution at a quarterly rate of $.25 per common share. 9 Table of Contents While we currently expect to pay future distributions in cash, we may pay up to 90% of our distributions in common shares, as permitted by an IRS revenue procedure that allows us to satisfy the REIT income distribution requirement by distributing up to 90% of our distributions in common shares in lieu of paying distributions entirely in cash. In the event that we pay a portion of a distribution in common shares, which we reserve the right to do, recipients would be required to pay tax on the entire amount of the distribution, including the portion paid in common shares, in which case the recipients might have to pay the tax using cash from other sources. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. holders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to all or a portion of such distribution that is payable in common shares. The timing, amount and composition of any future distributions to our common shareholders will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Trust Managers and will depend upon a variety of factors as to which no assurance can be given. Our ability to make distributions to our common shareholders depends, in part, upon our operating results, overall financial condition, the performance of our portfolio (including occupancy levels and rental rates), our capital requirements, access to capital, our ability to qualify for taxation as a REIT and general business and market conditions. There may be future dilution of our common shares. Our declaration of trust authorizes our Board of Trust Managers to, among other things, issue additional common or preferred shares or securities convertible or exchangeable into equity securities, without shareholder approval. We may issue such additional equity or convertible securities to raise additional capital. The issuance of any additional common or preferred shares or convertible securities could be substantially dilutive to holders of our common shares. Moreover, to the extent that we issue restricted shares, options, or warrants to purchase our common shares in the future and those options or warrants are exercised or the restricted shares vest, our shareholders may experience further dilution. Holders of our common shares have no preemptive rights that entitle them to purchase a pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our shareholders. We may issue debt and equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, any of which may be senior to our common shares as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of our common shares. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by entering into unsecured or secured debt or debt-like financings, or by issuing additional debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of medium-term notes, senior notes, subordinated notes, secured debt, guarantees, preferred shares, hybrid securities, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities. In the event of our liquidation, our lenders and holders of our debt and preferred securities would receive distributions of our available assets before distributions to the holders of our common shares. Because any decision to incur debt and issue securities in future offerings may be influenced by market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, or nature of our future financings. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future. An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the policies on our properties could subject us to lost capital or revenue on those properties. Under the terms and conditions of the leases currently in force on our properties, tenants generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons, air, water, land or property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted on the properties, except for claims arising from our negligence or intentional misconduct or that of our agents. Tenants are generally required, at the tenant’s expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies. We have obtained comprehensive liability, casualty, property, flood and rental loss insurance policies on our properties. All of these policies may involve substantial deductibles and certain exclusions. In addition, we cannot assure the shareholders that the tenants will properly maintain their insurance policies or have the ability to pay the deductibles. Should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, one or more of the properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to the shareholders. 10 Table of Contents Loss of our key personnel could adversely affect the value of our common shares and operations. We are dependent on the efforts of our key executive personnel. Although we believe qualified replacements could be found for these key executives, the loss of their services could adversely affect the value of our common shares and operations. Our declaration of trust contains certain limitations associated with share ownership. In order to maintain our status as a REIT, our declaration of trust prohibits any individual from owning more than 9.8% of our outstanding common shares. This restriction is likely to discourage third parties from acquiring control without the consent of our Board of Trust Managers, even if a change in control were in the best interests of our shareholders. Also, our declaration of trust requires the approval of the holders of 80% of our outstanding common shares and the approval by not less than 50% of the outstanding common shares not owned by any related person (a person owning more than 50% of our common shares) in order to consummate a business transaction such as a merger. There are certain exceptions to this requirement; however, the 80% approval requirement could make it difficult for us to consummate a business transaction even if it is in the best interest of our shareholders. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures that adversely affect our cash flows. All of our properties are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”). The ADA has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers, and noncompliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. While the tenants to whom we lease properties are obligated by law to comply with the ADA provisions, and typically under tenant leases are obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected. As a result, we could be required to expend funds to comply with the provisions of the ADA, which could adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to shareholders. In addition, we are required to operate the properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to the properties. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements, and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet the financial obligations and make distributions to our shareholders. Changes in accounting standards may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), in conjunction with the SEC, has several key projects on their agenda that could impact how we currently account for our material transactions, including lease accounting and other convergence projects with the International Accounting Standards Board. We believe that these and other potential proposals could have varying degrees of impact on us ranging from minimal to material. At this time, we are unable to predict with certainty which, if any, proposals may be passed or what level of impact any such proposal could have on us. Our real estate investments may contain environmental risks that could adversely affect our operating results. The acquisition of certain assets may subject us to environmental liabilities. Our operating expenses could be higher than anticipated due to the cost of complying with existing or future environmental laws and regulations. In addition, under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be considered an owner or operator of real property or have arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances. As a result, we may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances released on or in our property. We may also be liable for other potential costs that could relate to hazardous or toxic substances (including governmental fines and injuries to persons and property). We may incur such liability whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Any liability could be of substantial magnitude and divert management’s attention from other aspects of our business and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to the shareholders. 11 Table of Contents Compliance with federal and state laws and regulations on climate control may reduce the value or profitability of our properties or adversely affect our cash flow. All of our properties are required to comply with state and federal legislation and regulation that has been made or will be made regarding climate control. These matters may cause us or our tenants to incur substantial compliance, remediation and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict development in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. If not addressed, climate control issues or environmental conditions could impair our ability to sell or re-lease the affected properties in the future or result in lower sales prices or rent payments. Currently, we are subject to certain regulations regarding the future replacement of roofing on our properties located in California, the City of Houston and Burbank, Illinois, which will increase the cost of replacement roofs for those properties. Compliance with these regulations is not expected to have a material effect on our operating results. Natural disasters and severe weather conditions could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and operating results. Changing weather patterns and climatic conditions, such as global warming, may have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters in some parts of the world and created additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. Our operations are located in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather conditions such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, droughts, floods and fires. The occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new development projects, increase investment costs to repair or replace damaged properties, increase future property insurance costs, and negatively impact the tenant demand for lease space. If insurance is unavailable to us or is unavailable on acceptable terms, or if our insurance is not adequate to cover business interruption or losses from these events, our earnings, liquidity or capital resources could be adversely affected. We are unable to predict the effect of current governmental proposals. The current U.S. administration and Congress have made, or called for consideration of, several additional proposals relating to a variety of issues, including healthcare, financial regulation reform, climate control and others. We believe that these and other potential proposals could have varying degrees of impact on us ranging from minimal to material. At this time, we are unable to predict with certainty which, if any, proposals may be passed or what level of impact any such proposal could have on us. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 12 Table of Contents 