ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain risks that management believes are specific to our business. This should not be viewed as an all-inclusive list and the order is not intended as an indicator of the level of importance. We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums, special assessments, or taxes that could adversely affect our earnings. Market developments significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. As a result, we may be required to pay significantly higher premiums or additional special assessments or taxes that could adversely affect our earnings. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the levels imposed in 2010. Any future increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums may materially adversely affect our results of operations. The prolonged deep recession, difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business and may continue to do so. We are particularly exposed to downturns in the Delaware, Mid-Atlantic and overall U.S. housing market. Continued declines in the housing market combined with a weak economy and elevated unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage, construction and other loans that resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. General flat to downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively 27 impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • An increase in the number of borrowers unable to repay their loans in accordance with the original terms. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. • We may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. Our nonperforming assets and problem loans are at an elevated level. Significant increases from the current level, or greater than anticipated costs to resolve these credits, will have an adverse effect on our earnings. Our nonperforming assets (which consist of nonaccrual loans, assets acquired through foreclosure and troubled debt restructurings), totaled $91.7 million at December 31, 2011, which is an increase of $55.9 million, or 156%, over the $35.8 million in nonperforming assets at December 31, 2008 and down slightly from December 31, 2010. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on nonaccrual loans and assets acquired through foreclosure. We must establish an allowance for loan losses that reserves for losses inherent in the loan portfolio that are both probable and reasonably estimable through current period provisions for loan losses. From time to time, we also write down the value of properties in our portfolio of assets acquired through foreclosure to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to assets acquired through foreclosure. The resolution of nonperforming assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract management from its overall supervision of operations and other income producing activities. Finally, if our estimate of the allowance for loan losses is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance for loan losses accordingly, which will have an adverse effect on our earnings. Concentration of loans in our primary market area, which has recently experienced an economic downturn, may increase risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the State of Delaware, southeastern Pennsylvania and northern Virginia, as a large portion of our loans are to customers in this market. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in these markets have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans as well as our ability to originate new loans. As such, a continuation of the decline in real estate valuations in these markets would lower the value of the collateral securing those loans. In addition, continued weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could negatively affect demand for loans, the performance of our borrowers and our financial results. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans, our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are 28 incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. Our loan portfolio includes a substantial amount of commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans. The credit risk related to these types of loans is greater than the risk related to residential loans. Our commercial loan portfolio, which includes commercial and industrial loans and commercial real estate loans, totaled $2.2 billion at December 31, 2011, comprising 81% of total loans. Commercial and industrial loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a greater degree of risk of nonpayment or late payment than home equity loans or residential mortgage loans. Any significant failure to pay or late payments by our customers would hurt our earnings. The increased credit risk associated with these types of loans is a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the size of loan balances, and the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties. A significant portion of our commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loan portfolios includes a balloon payment feature. A number of factors may affect a borrower’s ability to make or refinance a balloon payment, including the financial condition of the borrower, the prevailing local economic conditions and the prevailing interest rate environment. Furthermore, commercial real estate loans secured by owner-occupied properties are dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. If the operating company suffers difficulties in terms of sales volume and/or profitability, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Loans secured by properties where repayment is dependent upon payment of rent by third party tenants or the sale of the property may be impacted by loss of tenants, lower lease rates needed to attract new tenants or the inability to sell a completed project in a timely fashion and at a profit. We are subject to extensive regulation which could have an adverse effect on our operations. The banking industry is extensively regulated and supervised under both federal and state laws and regulations that are intended primarily to protect depositors, the public, the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund, and the banking system as a whole, not our shareholders. We have historically been subject to the regulation and supervision of the OTS. The Federal Reserve became the primary federal regulator for the Company and the OCC became the Bank’s primary regulator effective July 21, 2011. The banking laws, regulations and policies applicable to us govern matters ranging from the regulation of certain debt obligations, changes in the control of us and the maintenance of adequate capital to the general business operations conducted by us, including permissible types, amounts and terms of loans and investments, the amount of reserves held against deposits, restrictions on dividends, establishment of new offices and the maximum interest rate that may be charged by law. We are subject to changes in federal and state banking statutes, regulations and governmental policies, and the interpretation or implementation of them. Regulations affecting banks and other financial institutions in particular are undergoing continuous review and frequently change and the ultimate effect of such changes cannot be predicted. Since we recently changed regulators, this risk is particularly heightened with us. Regulations and laws may be modified at any time, and new legislation may be enacted that will affect us. Any changes in any federal and state law, as well as regulations and governmental policies could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including ways that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. In addition, federal and state banking regulators have broad authority to supervise our banking business, including the authority to prohibit activities that represent unsafe or unsound banking practices or constitute violations of statute, rule, regulation or administrative order. Failure to appropriately comply with any such laws, regulations or regulatory policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties or damage to our reputation, all of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. 29 Recent legislative and regulatory actions may have a significant adverse effect on our operations. The Dodd-Frank Act has and will continue to result in sweeping changes in the regulation of financial institutions. As a result of this legislation, we face the following changes, among others: • The OTS has been eliminated and the OCC became the primary regulator. The federal thrift charter has been preserved under OCC jurisdiction. • A new independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has been established within the Federal Reserve, empowered to exercise broad regulatory, supervisory and enforcement authority with respect to both new and existing consumer financial protection laws. Smaller financial institutions, like our Bank, will be subject to the supervision and enforcement of their primary federal banking regulator with respect to the federal consumer financial protection laws. • Tier 1 capital treatment for “hybrid” capital items like trust preferred securities is eliminated, subject to various grandfathering and transition rules. Our trust preferred securities are grandfathered under this legislation. • Repeal of the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby generally permitting depository institutions to pay interest on all deposit accounts • State law is preempted only if it would have a discriminatory effect on a federal savings association or is preempted by any other federal law. The OCC must make a preemption determination on a case-by-case basis with respect to a particular state law or other state law with substantively equivalent terms. • Deposit insurance had been permanently increased to $250,000 and unlimited deposit insurance for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts extended through January 1, 2013. • Deposit insurance assessment base calculation will equal a depository institution’s total assets minus the sum of its average tangible equity during the assessment period. • The minimum reserve ratio of the deposit insurance fund increased to 1.35% of estimated annual insured deposits or assessment base; however, the FDIC is directed to “offset the effect” of the increased reserve ratio for insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of less than $10 billion. • Authority over savings and loan holding companies has been transferred to the Federal Reserve. • Leverage capital requirements and risk-based capital requirements applicable to depository institutions and bank holding companies have been extended to thrift holding companies following a five year grace period. • The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (“FDIA”) was amended to direct federal regulators to require depository institution holding companies to serve as a source of strength for their depository institution subsidiaries. • The Federal Reserve can require a grandfathered unitary thrift holding company that conducts commercial or manufacturing activities or other nonfinancial activities in addition to financial activities to conduct all or part of its financial activities in an intermediate savings and loan holding company. • The SEC is authorized to adopt rules requiring public companies to make their proxy materials available to shareholders for nomination of their own candidates for election to the board. 30 • Public companies will be required to provide their shareholders with a nonbinding vote (i) at least once every three years on the compensation paid to executive officers, and (ii) at least once every six years on whether they should have a “say on pay” vote every one, two or three years. • Additional provisions, including some not specifically aimed at thrifts and thrift holding companies, will nonetheless have an impact on us. Some of these provisions may have the consequence of increasing our expenses, decreasing our revenues and changing the activities in which we choose to engage. Many of these and other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act remain subject to regulatory rulemaking and implementation, the effects of which are not yet known. We may be forced to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes related to the Dodd-Frank Act and any regulations promulgated thereunder, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. We cannot predict the specific impact and long-term effects the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder will have on our financial performance, the markets in which we operate and the financial industry generally. In addition to changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act, recent proposals published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”), if adopted, could lead to significantly higher capital requirements, higher capital charges and more restrictive leverage and liquidity ratios. In July and December 2009, the Basel Committee published proposals relating to enhanced capital requirements for market risk and new capital and liquidity risk requirements for banks. On September 12, 2010, the Basel Committee announced an agreement on additional capital reforms that increases required Tier 1 capital and minimum Tier 1 common equity capital and requires banks to maintain an additional capital conservation buffer during times of economic prosperity. While the ultimate implementation of these proposals in the United States is subject to the discretion of U.S. bank regulators, these proposals, if adopted, could restrict our ability to grow during favorable market conditions or require us to raise additional capital, including through sales of common stock or other securities that may be dilutive to our shareholders. As a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects could be adversely affected. Lastly, in late 2011, in conjunction with our change in regulators, we undertook a project to reduce the number of Pass grades in our loan rating system with a goal of recalibrating our loan rating classifications to current Office of the Comptroller of Currency and Federal Reserve Board standards and to better classify our Pass and Criticized loan categories. This resulted in the elimination of our last Pass grade or our “pass/watch” grade. The result of this grade elimination resulted in $67 million of previous “pass/watch” loans being reclassified to Criticized or Classified, with none going to nonaccrual status. The impact of this project contributed to an incremental $2.1 million to the provision and allowance for loan losses in 2011. As the OCC and the Bank become more familiar with each other, we cannot be certain there won’t be additional changes to our risk rating system in the future. Additional recalibration of our risk rating categories may result in additional migration in loan ratings due to rewording differences in rating categories. Any of these changes may have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial position. WSFS Bank has entered into a memorandum of understanding. In December 2009, WSFS Bank entered into an informal memorandum of understanding (the “Understanding”) with our primary regulator. An Understanding is characterized by bank regulatory agencies as an informal action that is neither published nor made publicly available by the agencies and is used when circumstances warrant a milder response than a formal regulatory action. In accordance with the terms of the Understanding, WSFS Bank agreed, among other things, to: (i) adopt and implement a written plan to reduce criticized assets; (ii) review and revise its policies regarding the identification, monitoring and managing the risks associated with loan concentrations for certain commercial loans and reduce concentration limits of such loans; (iii) review and revise credit administration policies and 31 dedicate additional staffing resources to this department; (iv) implement a revised internal review program; (v) obtain prior regulatory approval before increasing the amount of brokered deposits; and (vi) approve a written strategic business plan and compliance plan concerning the exercise of fiduciary powers. We are committed to expeditiously addressing and resolving all the issues raised in the Understanding and management believes that we are in compliance with all provisions of the MOU, except for completion of the further reduction of criticized assets. However, under the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, we have new regulators who are not familiar with the Bank or our management. As a result, there can be no assurance our new regulators will agree with the view of management as to the Bank’s progress on the Understanding. A material failure to comply with the terms of the Understanding could subject the Bank to additional regulatory actions and further regulation, or result in a formal action or constraints on the Bank’s business, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. The fiscal, monetary and regulatory policies of the Federal Government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The Federal Reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. Its policies also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve policies and our regulatory environment generally are beyond our control, and we are unable to predict what changes may occur or the manner in which any future changes may affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. The securities purchase agreement between us and Treasury permits Treasury to impose additional restrictions on us retroactively. The securities purchase agreement we entered into with Treasury permits Treasury to unilaterally amend the terms of the securities purchase agreement to comply with any changes in federal statutes after the date of its execution. These additional restrictions may impede our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers or cause other costs or hardships for us. The terms of the CPP also restrict our ability to increase dividends on our common stock and undertake stock repurchase programs. Congress may impose additional restrictions in the future which may also apply retroactively. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on our operations, revenue and financial condition, on the ability to pay dividends, our ability to attract and retain executive talent and restricts our ability to increase our cash dividends or undertake stock repurchase programs. We are subject to liquidity risk. Liquidity is essential to our business, as we use cash to fund loans and investments and other interest-earning assets and deposit withdrawals that occur in the ordinary course of our business. Our principle sources of liquidity include customer deposits, Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings, brokered CDs, sales of loans held for sale, repayments to the Bank of loans it makes to borrowers and paydowns and sales of investment securities. If our ability to obtain funds from these sources becomes limited or the costs to us of those funds increases, whether due to factors that affect us specifically, including our financial performance or the imposition of regulatory restrictions on us, or due to factors that affect the capital markets or other events, including weakening economic conditions or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole, then, our ability to meet our obligations or grow our banking business would be adversely affected and our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. 32 The market value of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio may be impacted by the level of interest rates and the credit quality and strength of the underlying collateral. As of December 31, 2011, we owned mortgage-backed securities classified as available-for-sale with an aggregate historical cost of $810.7 million and an estimated fair value of $829.2 million. Future changes in interest rates or the credit quality and strength of the underlying issuers or collateral may reduce the market value of these and other securities. Our net interest income varies as a result of changes in interest rates as well as changes in interest rates across the yield curve. When interest rates are low, borrowers have an incentive to refinance into mortgages with longer initial fixed rate periods and fixed rate mortgages, causing our securities to experience faster prepayments. Increases in prepayments on our portfolio will cause our premium amortization to accelerate, lowering the yield on such assets. If this happens, we could experience a decrease in interest income, which may negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. In addition, our portfolio of securities is subject to risk as a result of credit quality and the strength of the underlying issuers or their related collateral. Any decrease in the value of the underlying collateral will likely decrease the overall value of our securities, affecting the Company’s equity and possibly impacting earnings. Impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. Goodwill and other intangible assets arise when a business is purchased for an amount greater than the net fair value of its identifiable assets. We have recognized goodwill as an asset on the balance sheet in connection with several recent acquisitions. At December 31, 2011, we had $34.3 million of goodwill and intangible assets. We evaluate goodwill and intangibles for impairment at least annually by comparing fair value to carrying amount. Although we have determined that goodwill and other intangible assets were not impaired during 2011, a significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or other factors could result in impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of the goodwill or intangible assets is necessary, then we would record the appropriate charge to earnings, which could be materially adverse to our results of operations and financial position. Our Cash Connect Division relies on multiple financial and operational controls to track and settle the cash it provides to its customers in the ATM industry. The profitability of Cash Connect is reliant upon its ability to accurately and efficiently distribute, track, and settle large amounts of cash to its customers’ ATMs. This depends on the successful implementation and monitoring of a comprehensive series of financial and operational controls. These controls are designed to help prevent, detect, and recover any potential loss of funds. These controls require the implementation and maintenance of complex proprietary software, the ability to track and monitor an extensive network of armored car companies, and to settle large amounts of electronic funds transfer (“EFT”) funds from various ATM networks. It is possible for those associated with armored car companies, ATM networks and processors, ATM operators, or other parties to misappropriate funds belonging to Cash Connect. Cash Connect has experienced such occurrences in the past. It is possible Cash Connect would not have established proper policies, controls or insurance and, as a result, any misappropriation of funds could result in an impact to earnings. 33 Changes in interest rates and other factors beyond our control could have an adverse impact on our earnings. Our operating income and net income depend to a greater extent on our net interest margin, which is the difference between the interest yields we receive on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest rates we pay on interest-bearing deposits and other liabilities. The net interest margin is affected by changes in market interest rates, because different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to market interest rate changes. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets in a period, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce net interest income. Similarly, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including competition, general economic conditions and monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve. We attempt to manage our risk from changes in market interest rates by adjusting the rates, maturity, repricing, and balances of the different types of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, but interest rate risk management techniques are not exact. As a result, a rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our net interest margin and results of operations. The results of our interest rate sensitivity simulation models depend upon a number of assumptions which may prove to be not accurate. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully manage our interest rate risk. Increases in market rates and adverse changes in the local residential real estate market, the general economy or consumer confidence would likely have a significant adverse impact on our non-interest income, as a result of reduced demand for residential mortgage loans that we make on a pre-sold basis. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. There is no assurance that any such events would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our recent business strategy included significant investment in growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth and investment in branch infrastructure effectively. We have pursued a significant growth strategy for our business. Our growth initiatives have required us to recruit experienced personnel to assist in such initiatives. Accordingly, the failure to retain such personnel would place significant limitations on our ability to successfully execute our growth strategy. In addition, as we expand our lending beyond our current market areas, we could incur additional risk related to those new market areas. We may not be able to expand our market presence in our existing market areas or successfully enter new markets. The weak economy and low demand for credit may impact our ability to successfully execute our growth plan. It could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and growth prospects. While we believe we have the executive management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance growth opportunities will be available or that we will successfully manage our growth. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and expansion opportunities. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we expect to engage in selected acquisitions or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. 34 The recent downgrade of the U.S. Government’s credit rating by Standard & Poor’s could result in economic uncertainty and a significant rise in interest rates, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders. On August 2, 2011, legislation was enacted to increase the federal debt ceiling and to reduce future U.S. Government spending levels. Notwithstanding the passage of this legislation, there remains uncertainty about whether and when the U.S. Government will implement contemplated budget cuts, which has resulted in continued concerns that the U.S. Government could default on its obligations in the future. On August 5, 2011, Standard & Poor’s downgraded the U.S. Government’s credit rating for the first time in history as a result of its belief that the legislation was inadequate to address the country’s growing debt burden. Standard & Poor’s decision to downgrade the U.S. Government’s credit rating could create broader financial and global banking turmoil and uncertainty and could lead to a significant rise in interest rates. These events could cause the interest rates on our borrowings and our cost of capital to increase significantly and negatively impact performance of our investment portfolio. These adverse consequences could also extend to our customers and, as a result, could materially and adversely affect the ability of our borrowers to continue to pay their obligations as they become due and our ability to continue to originate loans on favorable terms. These consequences could be exacerbated if other statistical rating agencies, particularly Moody’s and Fitch, decide to downgrade the U.S. Government’s credit rating in the future. Furthermore, the downgrade of the U.S. Government’s credit rating could result in significant volatility in global stock markets, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. We do not yet know what interest rates other institutions may offer. Our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if we begin offering interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers. Consequently, our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects may be adversely and materially affected. We may elect or need to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In the future, we may elect to or need to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed on acceptable terms, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to expand our operations through internal growth could be materially impaired. Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and damage our reputation. From time to time, and particularly in the recent economic downturn, and negative sentiment towards banks, we have and may become party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. Management evaluates these claims and proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and estimates, if possible, the amount of potential losses. We may establish a reserve, as appropriate, based upon our assessments and estimates in accordance with accounting policies. We base our assessments, estimates and disclosures on the information available to us at the time and rely on the judgment of our management with respect to those assessments, estimates and disclosures. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from assessments and estimates, which could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. 35 Our Christiana Trust division derives the majority of its revenue from noninterest income which consists of trust, investment and other servicing fees. This business unit is subject to a number of risks which could impact its earnings or the company’s capital. Among the risks are operational, compliance, reputational, fiduciary, business and strategic risks. Operational or compliance risk entails inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or changes driven by external events. Success in this business segment is highly dependent on reputation. Damage to the Christiana Trust division’s or the company’s reputation from negative opinion in the marketplace could adversely impact both revenue and net income. Such results could also be effected by the adverse effects of business decisions made by management or the board, improper implementation of business decisions by management or unexpected external events. Unforeseen or unrecognized developments in the marketplace in which Christiana Trust operates could also negatively affect results. This business segment is also subject to many other risks and uncertainties including: · The health of the US and International economies, soundness of financial institutions and other counterparties with which the Christiana Trust division conducts business, changes in trading volumes or in the financial markets in general, including the debt and equity markets or in client portfolios whose values directly impact revenue, the effect of governmental actions on the Christiana Trust division, its competitors and counterparties and financial markets: changes in the regulatory environment and changes in tax laws, accounting requirements or interpretations that affect the Christiana Trust division or its clients. · In addition, changes in the nature and activities of Christiana Trust division’s competition, success in maintaining existing business, continuing to generate new business, identifying and penetrating targeted markets, managing compliance with legal, tax, regulatory requirements, maintaining a business mix with acceptable margins, the continuing ability to generate investment results that satisfy its clients and attract prospective clients, success in recruiting and retaining the necessary personnel to support business growth and maintain sufficient expertise to support complex products and services and management’s ability to effectively address risk management practices and controls, address operating risks including human errors or omissions, pricing or valuation of securities, fraud, system performance, systems interruptions or breakdowns in processes or internal controls, and success in controlling expenses all may have negative impact on operating results. System failure or cybersecurity breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other potential losses. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen hardware and cybersecurity issues. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect the computer systems and network infrastructure utilized by us, including our Internet banking activities, against damage from physical break-ins, cybersecurity breaches and other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users. Such computer break-ins and other disruptions would jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us, damage our reputation and inhibit current and potential customers from our Internet banking services. Each year, we add additional security measures to our computer systems and network infrastructure to mitigate the possibility of cybersecurity breaches including firewalls and penetration testing. We continue to investigate cost effective measures as well as insurance protection. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 36 