ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - ---------------------- The following are certain risks that management believes are specific to our business. This should not be viewed as an all inclusive list and the order is not intended as an indicator of the level of importance. Future loan losses may negatively impact the Company We are subject to credit risk, which is the risk of losing principal or interest due to borrowers' failure to repay loans in accordance with their terms. A downturn in the economy or the real estate market in our market areas or a rapid change in interest rates could have a negative effect on collateral values and borrowers' ability to repay. This -22- deterioration in economic conditions could result in losses to us. To the extent loans are not paid timely by borrowers, the loans are placed on non-accrual, thereby reducing interest income. Rapidly changing interest rate environments could reduce our profitability Interest and fees on loans and securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are a large part of our net income. Interest rates are key drivers of our net interest margin and subject to many factors beyond the control of management. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. Rapid increases or decreases in interest rates in the future could negatively impact our net interest margin. Liquidity risk Due to our continued success in our lending operations, particularly in corporate and small business lending, our loans have exceeded customer deposit funding. Changes in interest rates or alternative investment opportunities and other factors may make deposit gathering more difficult. Additionally, interest rate changes or disruptions in the capital market may make the terms of the borrowings and brokered deposits less favorable. As a result, there is a risk that we will not have funds to meet our obligations when they come due. Interest rate and liquidity risk is managed by our Asset/Liability Committee ("ALCO"). While our loan-to-deposit ratio has been well above 100% for many years, management has significant experience managing its funding needs through borrowings and deposit growth. A liquidity crisis plan has been developed and is an important part of our liquidity management. The financial services industry is very competitive We face competition in attracting and retaining deposits, making loans, and providing other financial services throughout our market area. Our competitors include other community banks, larger banking institutions, and a wide range of other financial institutions such as credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies and other non-bank businesses. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than us. If we are unable to compete effectively, we will lose market share and will have less income from deposits and loans, which will negatively impact our net interest margin. Profitability of other products may be reduced as well. Adverse changes in the economic growth and vitality in our banking markets may negatively impact us Our business is closely tied to the economies of Delaware and the contiguous counties outside of Delaware. A sustained economic downturn could adversely affect our net income. We are subject to extensive regulation Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal banking authorities which impose requirements and restrictions on our operations. The impact of changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive for us and could adversely affect our net income. We may not be able to achieve our growth plans or effectively manage its growth There can be no assurance that growth opportunities will be available or that growth will be successfully managed. This includes, but is not limited to, growth in generating loans and gathering deposits. Due to our investment in future growth, failure to obtain sufficient growth would negatively effect our net income. -23- Inability to hire or retain certain key professionals, management and staff could adversely affect our revenues and net income We rely on key personnel to manage and operate our business, including major revenue generating functions such as our loan and deposit portfolios. The loss of key staff may adversely affect our ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively effect our revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting and hiring expenses, which could cause a decrease in our net income. We continually encounter technological change The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Our largest competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and our net income. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS - ----------------------------------- None. 