ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves risks. You should carefully consider the following risks, in addition to the other information in this report, before deciding to invest in our securities. Risks Related to WSFS Difficult market conditions and unfavorable economic trends could adversely affect our industry and our business. We are particularly exposed to downturns in the Delaware, mid-Atlantic and overall U.S. economy and housing markets. Since 2007, declines in the housing market combined with a weak economy and elevated unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage, construction and other loans and have resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. Unfavorable general economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and sustained high unemployment negatively impact the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in increased write-downs. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to access capital. A worsening 22 Table of Contents of these conditions, such as a recession or economic slowdown, would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • An increase in the number of customers unable to repay their loans in accordance with the original terms, which could result in a higher level of loan losses and provision for loan losses; • Impaired ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers as the models and approaches we use to select, manage and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future performance; • Impaired ability to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure as the process we use, which requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments based on forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our customers to repay their loans, becomes less accurate and thus less reliable; • Increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to commercial credit; • Changes in the regulatory environment, including regulations promulgated or to be promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Act, also could influence recognition of loan losses and our allowance for loan losses; • Downward pressure on our stock price; and • Increased competition due to intensified consolidation of the financial services industry. Significant increases of nonperforming assets from the current level, or greater than anticipated costs to resolve these credits, will have an adverse effect on our earnings. Our nonperforming assets (which consist of nonaccrual loans, assets acquired through foreclosure and troubled debt restructurings), totaled $47.8 million at December 31, 2013. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on nonaccrual loans and assets acquired through foreclosure. We must establish an allowance for loan losses which reserves for losses inherent in the loan portfolio that are both probable and reasonably estimable. From time to time, we also write down the value of properties in our portfolio of assets acquired through foreclosure to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to assets acquired through foreclosure. The resolution of nonperforming assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract management from its overall supervision of operations and other income producing activities. Finally, if our estimate of the allowance for loan losses is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance for loan losses accordingly, which will have an adverse effect on our earnings. Changes in interest rates and other factors beyond our control could have an adverse impact on our earnings. Our operating income and net income depend to a significant extent on our net interest margin, which is the difference between the interest yields we receive on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest rates we pay on interest-bearing deposits and other liabilities. The net interest margin is affected by changes in market interest rates, because different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to market interest rate changes. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets in a period, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce net interest income. Similarly, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including competition, general economic conditions and monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve. We attempt to manage our risk from changes in market interest rates by adjusting the rates, maturity, repricing, and balances of the different types of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, but interest 23 Table of Contents rate risk management techniques are not exact. As a result, a rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our net interest margin and results of operations. The results of our interest rate sensitivity simulation models depend upon a number of assumptions which may prove to be not accurate. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully manage our interest rate risk. Increases in market rates and adverse changes in the local residential real estate market, the general economy or consumer confidence would likely have a significant adverse impact on our non-interest income, as a result of reduced demand for residential mortgage loans that we pre-sell. The market value of our investment securities portfolio may be impacted by the level of interest rates and the credit quality and strength of the underlying collateral. As of December 31, 2013, we owned investment securities classified as available-for-sale with an aggregate historical cost of $850.7 million and an estimated fair value of $817.1 million. Future changes in interest rates may reduce the market value of these and other securities. Our net interest income varies as a result of changes in interest rates as well as changes in interest rates across the yield curve. When interest rates are low, borrowers have an incentive to refinance into mortgages with longer initial fixed rate periods and fixed rate mortgages, causing our securities to experience faster prepayments. Increases in prepayments on our portfolio will cause our premium amortization to accelerate, lowering the yield on such assets. If this happens, we could experience a decrease in interest income, which may negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. In addition, our securities portfolio is subject to risk as a result of credit quality and the strength of the underlying issuers or their related collateral. Any decrease in the value of the underlying collateral will likely decrease the overall value of our securities, affecting equity and possibly impacting earnings. Our loan portfolio includes a substantial amount of commercial real estate, construction and land development and commercial and industrial loans. The credit risk related to these types of loans is greater than the risk related to residential loans. Our commercial loan portfolio, which includes commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans and construction and land development loans, totaled $2.4 billion at December 31, 2013, comprising 84% of net loans. Commercial and industrial loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a greater degree of risk of nonpayment or late payment than home equity loans or residential mortgage loans. Any significant failure to pay or late payments by our customers would adversely affect our earnings. The increased credit risk associated with these types of loans is a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the size of loan balances, and the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties. A portion of our commercial real estate, construction and land development and commercial and industrial loan portfolios includes a balloon payment feature. A number of factors may affect a borrower’s ability to make or refinance a balloon payment, including the financial condition of the borrower, the prevailing local economic conditions and the prevailing interest rate environment. Furthermore, commercial real estate loans secured by owner-occupied properties are dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. If the operating company suffers difficulties in terms of sales volume and/or profitability, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Loans secured by properties where repayment is dependent upon payment of rent by third party tenants or the sale of the property may be impacted by loss of tenants, lower lease rates needed to attract new tenants or the inability to sell a completed project in a timely fashion and at a profit. Concentration of loans in our primary markets may increase our risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions and housing markets in the State of Delaware, southeastern Pennsylvania and northern Virginia, as a large portion of our loans are to customers in 24 Table of Contents these markets. This makes us vulnerable to a downturn in the local economy and real estate markets in these areas. Declines in real estate valuations in these markets would lower the value of the collateral securing those loans, which could cause us to realize losses in the event of increased foreclosures. Local economic conditions have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans as well as our ability to originate new loans. In addition, weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, natural disasters or other factors beyond our control could negatively affect demand for loans, the performance of our borrowers and our financial results. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable or incurred losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. While we believe that our allowance for loan losses was appropriate at December 31, 2013, there is no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover future loan losses, especially if there is a significant deterioration in economic conditions. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. We are subject to extensive regulation which could have an adverse effect on our operations. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and examination governing almost all aspects of our operations. The laws and regulations governing our business are intended primarily to protect depositors, our customers, the public, the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund, and the banking system as a whole, not our noteholders or shareholders. Since July 21, 2011, the Federal Reserve has been the primary federal regulator for the Company and the OCC has been the Bank’s primary regulator. The banking laws, regulations and policies applicable to us govern a variety of matters, including certain debt obligations, changes in control, maintenance of adequate capital, and general business operations, including permissible types, amounts and terms of loans and investments, the amount of reserves held against deposits, restrictions on dividends, establishment of new offices and the maximum interest rate that may be charged by law. In addition, federal and state banking regulators have broad authority to supervise our banking business, including the authority to prohibit activities that represent unsafe or unsound banking practices or constitute violations of statute, rule, regulation or administrative order. Failure to appropriately comply with any such laws, regulations or regulatory policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties or damage to our reputation, all of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. We are subject to changes in federal and state banking statutes, regulations and governmental policies, and their interpretation or implementation Regulations affecting banks and other financial institutions in particular are undergoing continuous review and frequently change and the ultimate effect of such changes cannot be predicted. Regulations and laws may be modified at any time, and new legislation may be enacted that will affect us. Any changes in any federal and state law, as well as regulations and governmental policies could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including ways that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. Regulation of the financial services industry has increased significantly since the financial crisis. The Dodd-Frank Act has resulted, or is likely to result, in new laws, regulations and regulatory supervisors that are expected to have an adverse impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. Specifically, as a result of this legislation, we face the following changes, among others: • The Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”) has been eliminated. The OCC became our Bank’s primary regulator and the Federal Reserve Bank is our primary regulator. 25 Table of Contents • A new independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) has been established within the Federal Reserve, empowered to exercise broad regulatory, supervisory and enforcement authority with respect to both new and existing consumer financial protection laws. Smaller financial institutions, like our Bank, will be subject to the supervision and enforcement of their primary federal banking regulator with respect to the federal consumer financial protection laws. • Tier 1 capital treatment for “hybrid” capital items like trust preferred securities was eliminated, subject to various grandfathering and transition rules. Our trust preferred securities are currently grandfathered, but may not remain grandfathered under this legislation. • Deposit insurance has been permanently increased to $250,000. • Deposit insurance assessment base calculations equal a depository institution’s total consolidated assets minus the sum of its average tangible equity during the assessment period. • The minimum reserve ratio of the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund increased to 1.35% of estimated annual insured deposits or assessment base; however, the FDIC is directed to “offset the effect” of the increased reserve ratio for insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of less than $10 billion. • Leverage capital requirements and risk-based capital requirements applicable to depository institutions and bank holding companies have been extended to thrift holding companies following a five year grace period. • The Federal Deposit Insurance Act, referred to as the FDIA, was amended to direct federal regulators to require depository institution holding companies to serve as a source of strength for their depository institution subsidiaries. • The Federal Reserve can require a grandfathered unitary thrift holding company that conducts commercial or manufacturing activities or other nonfinancial activities in addition to financial activities to conduct all or part of its financial activities in an intermediate savings and loan holding company. • Additional provisions, including some not specifically aimed at thrifts and thrift holding companies, that will nonetheless have an impact on us. Further, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB recently issued a final rule requiring mortgage lenders to make a reasonable and good faith determination based on verified and documented information that a consumer applying for a mortgage loan has a reasonable ability to repay the loan according to its terms, or to originate “qualified mortgages” that meet specific requirements with respect to terms, pricing and fees. The new rule also contains new disclosure requirements at mortgage loan origination and in monthly statements. These requirements will likely require significant personnel resources and could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Some of the regulatory changes described above may have the consequence of increasing our expenses, decreasing our revenues and changing the activities in which we choose to engage. Many of these and other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act remain subject to regulatory rulemaking and implementation, the effects of which are not yet known. We may be forced to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes related to the Dodd-Frank Act and any regulations promulgated thereunder, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. We cannot predict the specific impact and long-term effects the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder will have on our financial performance, the markets in which we operate and the financial industry generally. In addition to changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act, in July 2013, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, FDIC and the OCC approved final rules (the “Final Capital Rules”) implementing revised capital rules to reflect the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act and the Basel III international capital standards. Among other things, the Final Capital Rules establish a new capital ratio of common equity Tier 1 26 Table of Contents capital of 4.5% and a common equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of risk-weighted assets; increase the minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital ratio from 4% to 6% and include a minimum leverage ratio of 4%; place an emphasis on common equity Tier 1 capital and implement the Dodd-Frank Act phase-out of certain instruments from Tier 1 capital; and change the risk weights assigned to certain instruments. The Final Capital Rules will be applicable to us on January 1, 2015 with conservation buffers phasing in over the subsequent 5 years. We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. The Bank Secrecy Act, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports when appropriate. In addition to other bank regulatory agencies, the federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the Department of the Treasury is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the state and federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Drug Enforcement Administration, and Internal Revenue Service. We are also subject to increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury regarding, among other things, the prohibition of transacting business with, and the need to freeze assets of, certain persons and organizations identified as a threat to the national security, foreign policy or economy of the United States. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including any acquisition plans. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We are subject to numerous laws designed to protect consumers, including the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to a wide variety of sanctions. The Community Reinvestment Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The CFPB, the Department of Justice and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful regulatory challenge to an institution’s performance under the Community Reinvestment Act or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity, restrictions on expansion, and restrictions on entering new business lines. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution’s performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums, special assessments, or taxes that could adversely affect our earnings. The high level of bank failures during the recent financial crisis significantly depleted the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. As a result, we may be required to pay significantly higher premiums or additional special assessments or taxes that could adversely affect our earnings. The Dodd-Frank Act increased the minimum reserve ratio from 1.15% to 1.35%. The FDIC has adopted a plan under which it will meet this ratio by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to offset the effect of the increase in the minimum reserve ratio on institutions with assets less than 27 Table of Contents $10 billion. The FDIC has not announced how it will implement this offset. In addition to the minimum reserve ratio, the FDIC must set a designated reserve ratio. The FDIC has set a designated reserve ratio of 2.0%, which exceeds the minimum reserve ratio. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has adopted final regulations under which insurance premiums are based on an institution’s total consolidated assets minus its tangible equity instead of its deposits. While our FDIC insurance premiums initially will be reduced by these regulations, it is possible that our future insurance premiums will increase under the final regulations. Any future increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums may materially adversely affect our results of operations. The fiscal, monetary and regulatory policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The Federal Reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. Its policies also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve policies and our regulatory environment generally are beyond our control, and we are unable to predict what changes may occur or the manner in which any future changes may affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. Impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets could require charges to earnings, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Goodwill and other intangible assets arise when a business is purchased for an amount greater than the net fair value of its identifiable assets. We have recognized goodwill as an asset on the balance sheet in connection with several recent acquisitions. At December 31, 2013, we had $39.0 million of goodwill and intangible assets. We evaluate goodwill and intangibles for impairment at least annually by comparing fair value to carrying amount. Although we have determined that goodwill and other intangible assets were not impaired during 2013, a significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or other factors could result in impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of the goodwill or intangible assets is necessary, then we would record the appropriate charge to earnings, which could be materially adverse to our results of operations and financial position. Our Cash Connect division relies on multiple financial and operational controls to track and settle the cash it provides to its customers in the ATM industry. The profitability of Cash Connect is reliant upon its ability to accurately and efficiently distribute, track, and settle large amounts of cash to its customers’ ATMs. This depends on the successful implementation and monitoring of a comprehensive series of financial and operational controls that are designed to help prevent, detect, and recover any potential loss of funds. These controls require the implementation and maintenance of complex proprietary software, the ability to track and monitor an extensive network of armored car companies, and the ability to settle large amounts of electronic funds transfer, or EFT, funds from various ATM networks. It is possible for those associated with armored car companies, ATM networks and processors, ATM operators, or other parties to misappropriate funds belonging to Cash Connect. Cash Connect has experienced such occurrences in the past. If our Cash Connect division’s established policies, procedures and controls are inadequate to prevent a misappropriation of funds, or if a misappropriation of funds is not insured or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us, it could result in an adverse impact on our earnings. 28 Table of Contents The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Such events may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our recent business strategy included significant investment in growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth and investment in branch infrastructure effectively. We have pursued a significant growth strategy for our business. Our growth initiatives have required us to recruit experienced personnel to assist in such initiatives. Accordingly, the failure to retain such personnel would place significant limitations on our ability to successfully execute our growth strategy. In addition, as we expand our lending beyond our current market areas, we could incur additional risk related to those new market areas. We may not be able to expand our market presence in our existing market areas or successfully enter new markets. A weak economy, low demand and competition for credit may impact our ability to successfully execute our growth plan and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and growth prospects. While we believe we have the executive management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance growth opportunities will be available or that we will successfully manage our growth. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and expansion opportunities. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we expect to engage in selected acquisitions or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. We may not successfully identify appropriate opportunities, may not be able to negotiate or finance such activities and such activities, if undertaken, may not be successful. We have in the past and may in the future pursue acquisitions, which may disrupt our business and adversely affect our operating results, and we may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of our pending acquisition of First Wyoming. We have historically pursued acquisitions, and may seek acquisitions in the future. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into the existing operations, or expand into new markets. Once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability, or productivity comparable with those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies, and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. We may not properly ascertain all such risks prior to an acquisition or prior to such a risk impacting us while integrating an acquired company. As a result, difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, we must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire a bank or bank holding company. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, future prospects, including current and projected capital levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management, compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution’s record of compliance under the Community Reinvestment Act, and the effectiveness of the 29 Table of Contents acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. In addition, we cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. Consequently, we may not obtain regulatory approval for a proposed acquisition on acceptable terms or at all, in which case we would not be able to complete the acquisition despite the time and expenses invested in pursuing it. The success of our pending acquisition of First Wyoming Financial Corporation, which we announced on November 25, 2013, will depend on, among other things, our ability to realize anticipated costs savings and to successfully combine our business with First Wyoming Financial Corporation in a manner that does not materially disrupt existing customer relationships or result in decreased revenues from our respective customers. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. If the merger is not consummated, we will have incurred substantial costs that may adversely affect our financial results and operations. We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial costs in connection with the proposed merger. These costs are primarily associated with the fees of our financial advisor, accountants and attorneys. If the merger is not consummated, we will have incurred these costs from which we will have received little or no benefits. We originate, sell, service and portfolio reverse mortgages, which subjects us to additional risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We originate, sell, service and portfolio reverse mortgages. The reverse mortgage business is subject to substantial risks, including market, credit, interest rate, liquidity, operational, reputational and legal risks. Generally, a reverse mortgage is a loan available to seniors aged 62 or older that allows homeowners to borrow money against the value of their home. No repayment of the mortgage is required until the borrower dies, moves out of the home or the home is sold. A decline in the demand for reverse mortgages may reduce the number of reverse mortgages we originate, and adversely affect our ability to sell reverse mortgages in the secondary market. Although foreclosures involving reverse mortgages generally occur less frequently than forward mortgages, loan defaults on reverse mortgages leading to foreclosures may occur if borrowers fail to maintain their property or fail to pay taxes or home insurance premiums. A general increase in foreclosure rates may adversely impact how reverse mortgages are perceived by potential customers and thus reduce demand for reverse mortgages. Finally, we could become subject to negative headline risk in the event that loan defaults on reverse mortgages lead to foreclosures or evictions of elderly homeowners. All of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We could experience an unexpected inability to obtain needed liquidity. Liquidity is essential to our business, as we use cash to fund loans and investments, other interest-earning assets and deposit withdrawals that occur in the ordinary course of our business. We also are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Our principal sources of liquidity include customer deposits, FHLB borrowings, brokered certificates of deposit, sales of loans, repayments to the Bank from borrowers and paydowns and sales of investment securities. If our ability to obtain funds from these sources becomes limited or the costs to us of those funds increases, whether due to factors that affect us specifically, including our financial performance or the imposition of regulatory restrictions on us, or due to factors that affect the capital markets or other events, including weakening economic conditions or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole, then our ability to meet our obligations or grow our banking business would be adversely affected and our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. 30 Table of Contents Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and damage our reputation. From time to time, and particularly in light of the recent economic downturn, and the negative sentiment towards banks, we have and may become party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. Management evaluates these claims and proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and estimates, if possible, the amount of potential losses. We may establish a reserve, as appropriate, based upon our assessments and estimates in accordance with accounting policies. We base our assessments, estimates and disclosures on the information available to us at the time and rely on the judgment of our management with respect to those assessments, estimates and disclosures. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from assessments and estimates, which could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. Our Trust and Wealth division is subject to a number of risks, including reputational risk. Our Trust and Wealth division derives the majority of its revenue from noninterest income which consists of trust, investment and other servicing fees. Success in this business segment is highly dependent on reputation. Our ability to attract trust and wealth management clients is highly dependent upon external perceptions of this division’s level of service, trustworthiness, business practices and financial condition. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters could damage the division’s and our reputation among existing customers and corporate clients, which could make it difficult for the Trust and Wealth division to attract new clients and maintain existing ones. Adverse developments with respect to the financial services industry may also, by association, negatively impact the division’s or our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny or litigation against us. Although we monitor developments for areas of potential risk to the division’s and our reputation and brand, negative perceptions or publicity could materially and adversely impact both revenue and net income. System failure or cybersecurity breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other potential losses. Failure in or breach of our computer systems and network infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors or other service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect the computer systems and network infrastructure utilized by us, including our Internet banking activities, against damage from physical break-ins, cybersecurity breaches and other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users. Such computer break-ins and other disruptions would jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and damage to our reputation, and may discourage current and potential customers from using our Internet banking services. As customer, public and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, we have added additional security measures to our computer systems and network infrastructure to mitigate the possibility of cybersecurity breaches including firewalls and penetration testing. We continue to investigate cost effective measures as well as insurance protection though these mitigation activities may not prevent future potential losses from system failures or cybersecurity breaches. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. The occurrence of any systems failure or interruption could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to legal liability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Key employees may be difficult to retain. Our Associates are our most important resource and, in many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. We invest significantly in recruitment, training, development and talent management as our Associates are the cornerstone of our model. If we were unable to continue to attract and retain qualified key employees to support the various functions of our businesses, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. As economic conditions improve, we may face increased difficulty in retaining top performers and critical skilled employees. If key personnel were to leave us and equally knowledgeable or skilled personnel are unavailable within the Company or could not be sourced in the market, our ability to manage our business may be hindered or impaired. Our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries, including the Bank. We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our Common Stock and interest and principal on our debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our Bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay us. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. Limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to pay dividends on common stock. Additionally, if our subsidiaries’ earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 32 Table of Contents 