ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The economic performance and value of our shopping centers depend on many factors, each of which could have an adverse impact on our cash flows and operating results. The economic performance and value of our properties can be affected by many factors, including the following: § Changes in the national, regional and local economic climate; § Local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area; § The attractiveness of the properties to tenants; § Competition from other available space; § Our ability to provide adequate management services and to maintain our properties; § Increased operating costs, if these costs cannot be passed through to tenants; 4 Table of Contents § The expense of periodically renovating, repairing and releasing spaces; § Consequence of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against , the United States; § Our ability to secure adequate insurance; § Fluctuations in interest rates; § Changes in real estate taxes and other expenses; and § Availability of financing on acceptable terms or at all. Our properties consist primarily of neighborhood and community shopping centers and, therefore, our performance is linked to general economic conditions in the market for retail space. The market for retail space has been and may continue to be adversely affected by weakness in the national, regional and local economies where our properties are located, the adverse financial condition of some large retailing companies, the ongoing consolidation in the retail sector, the excess amount of retail space in a number of markets and increasing consumer purchases through catalogues and the Internet. To the extent that any of these conditions occur, they are likely to affect market rents for retail space. In addition, we may face challenges in the management and maintenance of the properties or encounter increased operating costs, such as real estate taxes, insurance and utilities, which may make our properties unattractive to tenants. Our acquisition activities may not produce the cash flows that we expect and may be limited by competitive pressures or other factors. We intend to acquire existing retail properties to the extent that suitable acquisitions can be made on advantageous terms. Acquisitions of commercial properties involve risks such as: § Our estimates on expected occupancy and rental rates may differ from actual conditions; § Our estimates of the costs of any redevelopment or repositioning of acquired properties may prove to be inaccurate; § We may be unable to operate successfully in new markets where acquired properties are located, due to a lack of market knowledge or understanding of local economies; § We may be unable to successfully integrate new properties into our existing operations; or § We may have difficulty obtaining financing on acceptable terms or paying the operating expenses and debt service associated with acquired properties prior to sufficient occupancy. In addition, we may not be in a position or have the opportunity in the future to make suitable property acquisitions on advantageous terms due to competition for such properties with others engaged in real estate investment. Our inability to successfully acquire new properties may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Turmoil in capital markets could adversely impact acquisition activities and pricing of real estate assets. Volatility in capital markets could adversely affect acquisition activities by impacting certain factors including the tightening of underwriting standards by lenders and credit rating agencies and the significant inventory of unsold Collateralized Mortgage Backed Securities in the market. These factors directly affect a lender’s ability to provide debt financing as well as increase the cost of available debt financing. As a result, we may not be able to obtain favorable debt financing in the future or at all. This may result in future acquisitions generating lower overall economic returns, which may adversely affect our results of operations and distributions to shareholders. Furthermore, any turmoil in the capital markets could adversely impact the overall amount of capital available to invest in real estate, which may result in price or value decreases of real estate assets. Our dependence on rental income may adversely affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and make distributions to our shareholders. The substantial majority of our income is derived from rental income from real property. As a result, our performance depends on our ability to collect rent from tenants. Our income and funds for distribution would be negatively affected if a significant number of our tenants, or any of our major tenants (as discussed in more detail below): § Delay lease commencements; § Decline to extend or renew leases upon expiration; 5 Table of Contents § Fail to make rental payments when due; or § Close stores or declare bankruptcy. Any of these actions could result in the termination of the tenants' lease and the loss of rental income attributable to the terminated leases. Lease terminations by an anchor tenant or a failure by that anchor tenant to occupy the premises could also result in lease terminations or reductions in rent by other tenants in the same shopping centers under the terms of some leases. In addition, we cannot be sure that any tenant whose lease expires will renew that lease or that we will be able to re-lease space on economically advantageous terms. The loss of rental revenues from a number of our tenants and our inability to replace such tenants may adversely affect our profitability and our ability to meet debt and other financial obligations and make distributions to the shareholders. Our development and construction activities could affect our operating results. We intend to continue the selective development and construction of retail properties in accordance with our development and underwriting policies as opportunities arise. Our development and construction activities include risks that: § We may abandon development opportunities after expending resources to determine feasibility; § Construction costs of a project may exceed our original estimates; § Occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed property may not be sufficient to make the property profitable; § Rental rates per square foot could be less than projected; § Financing may not be available to us on favorable terms for development of a property; § We may not complete construction and lease-up on schedule, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs; and § We may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. Additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for a significant cash return. If any of the above events occur, the development of properties may hinder our growth and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, new development activities, regardless of whether or not they are ultimately successful, typically require substantial time and attention from management. Real estate property investments are illiquid, and therefore we may not be able to dispose of properties when appropriate or on favorable terms. Real estate property investments generally cannot be disposed of quickly. In addition, the federal tax code imposes restrictions on the ability of a REIT to dispose of properties that are not applicable to other types of real estate companies. Therefore, we may not be able to vary our portfolio in response to economic or other conditions promptly or on favorable terms, which could cause us to incur extended losses and reduce our cash flows and adversely affect distributions to shareholders. Our cash flows and operating results could be adversely affected by required payments of debt or related interest and other risks of our debt financing. We are generally subject to risks associated with debt financing. These risks include: § Our cash flow may not satisfy required payments of principal and interest; § We may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness on our properties as necessary or the terms of the refinancing may be less favorable to us than the terms of existing debt; § Required debt payments are not reduced if the economic performance of any property declines; § Debt service obligations could reduce funds available for distribution to our shareholders and funds available for capital investment; § Any default on our indebtedness could result in acceleration of those obligations and possible loss of property to foreclosure; and 6 Table of Contents § The risk that necessary capital expenditures for purposes such as re−leasing space cannot be financed on favorable terms. If a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we cannot make the mortgage payments, we may have to surrender the property to the lender with a consequent loss of any prospective income and equity value from such property. Any of these risks can place strains on our cash flows, reduce our ability to grow and adversely affect our results of operations. Property ownership through real estate partnerships and joint ventures could limit our control of those investments and reduce our expected return. Real estate partnership or joint venture investments may involve risks not otherwise present for investments made solely by us, including the possibility that our partner or co-venturer might become bankrupt, that our partner or co-venturer might at any time have different interests or goals than us, and that our partner or co-venturer may take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives. Other risks of joint venture investments could include impasse on decisions, such as a sale, because neither our partner or co-venturer nor we would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. These factors could limit the return that we receive from those investments or cause our cash flows to be lower than our estimates. Our financial condition could be adversely affected by financial covenants. Our credit facilities and public debt indentures under which our indebtedness is, or may be, issued contain certain financial and operating covenants, including, among other things, certain coverage ratios, as well as limitations on our ability to incur secured and unsecured indebtedness, restrictions on our ability to sell all or substantially all of our assets and engage in mergers and consolidations and certain acquisitions. These covenants could limit our ability to obtain additional funds needed to address cash shortfalls or pursue growth opportunities or transactions that would provide substantial return to our shareholders. In addition, a breach of these covenants could cause a default under or accelerate some or all of our indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax as a regular corporation and could have significant tax liability. We intend to operate in a manner that allows us to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, REIT qualification requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual or quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, for which there are a limited number of judicial or administrative interpretations. Our status as a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. Accordingly, it is not certain we will be able to qualify and remain qualified as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Even a technical or inadvertent violation of the REIT requirements could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Furthermore, Congress or the IRS might change the tax laws or regulations and the courts might issue new rulings, in each case potentially having retroactive effect that could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any tax year, then: § We would be taxed as a regular domestic corporation, which, among other things, means that we would be unable to deduct distributions to our shareholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; § Any resulting tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders, and could force us to liquidate assets or take other actions that could have a detrimental effect on our operating results; and § Unless we were entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we lost our qualification, and our cash available for distribution to our shareholders therefore would be reduced for each of the years in which we do not qualify as a REIT. 7 Table of Contents Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. We may also be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and property either directly or at the level of our subsidiaries. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Compliance with REIT requirements may negatively affect our operating decisions. To maintain our status as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must meet certain requirements, on an ongoing basis, including requirements regarding our sources of income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our shareholders and the ownership of our shares. We may also be required to make distributions to our shareholders when we do not have funds readily available for distribution or at times when our funds are otherwise needed to fund capital expenditures. As a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our annual net taxable income (excluding net capital gains) to our shareholders. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes, or our net taxable income may be greater than our cash flow available for distribution to our shareholders. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we could be required to borrow funds, sell a portion of our securities at unfavorable prices or find other sources of funds in order to meet the REIT distribution requirements. Dividends paid by REITs generally do not qualify for reduced tax rates. In general, the maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for dividends paid to individual U.S. shareholders is 15% (through 2008). Unlike dividends received from a corporation that is not a REIT, our distributions to individual shareholders generally are not eligible for the reduced rates. Our real estate investments may contain environmental risks that could adversely affect our operating results. The acquisition of certain assets may subject us to liabilities, including environmental liabilities. Our operating expenses could be higher than anticipated due to the cost of complying with existing or future environmental laws and regulations. In addition, under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be considered an owner or operator of real property or have arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances. As a result, we may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances released on or in our property. We may also be liable for other potential costs that could relate to hazardous or toxic substances (including governmental fines and injuries to persons and property). We may incur such liability whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Any liability could be of substantial magnitude and divert management’s attention from other aspects of our business and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to the shareholders. 8 Table of Contents An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the policies on our properties could subject us to lost capital or revenue on those properties. Under the terms and conditions of the leases currently in force on our properties, tenants generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons, air, water, land or property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted on the properties, except for claims arising from our negligence or intentional misconduct or that of our agents. Tenants are generally required, at the tenant’s expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies. We have obtained comprehensive liability, casualty, property, flood and rental loss insurance policies on our properties. All of these policies may involve substantial deductibles and certain exclusions. In addition, we cannot assure the shareholders that the tenants will properly maintain their insurance policies or have the ability to pay the deductibles. Should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, one or more of the properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to the shareholders. Loss of our key personnel could adversely affect the value of our common shares of beneficial interest and operations. We are dependent on the efforts of our key executive personnel. Although we believe qualified replacements could be found for these key executives, the loss of their services could adversely affect the value of our common shares of beneficial interest and operations. Policies may be changed without obtaining the approval of our shareholders. Our shareholders do not control any policies with respect to our operating and financial policies, including our policies regarding acquisitions, dispositions, indebtedness, operations, capitalization and dividends, which are determined by our Board of Trust Managers and management. The market price of our common shares of beneficial interest and preferred shares could be adversely affected by disruptions in capital market or other economic conditions. Volatile market conditions could result in value fluctuations in our common shares of beneficial interest and preferred shares. Among the market conditions that may affect the value of our common shares of beneficial interest and preferred shares are the following: § the attractiveness of REIT securities as compared to other securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, fixed income equity securities and debt securities; § the degree of interest held by institutional investors; § our operating performance and financial situation; and § general economic conditions. The current volatility on the stock market has created price and volume fluctuations that have not necessarily been comparable to operating performance. 9 Table of Contents Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures that adversely affect our cash flows. All of our properties are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). The ADA has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers, and noncompliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. While the tenants to whom we lease properties are obligated by law to comply with the ADA provisions, and typically under tenant leases are obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected. As a result, we could be required to expend funds to comply with the provisions of the ADA, which could adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to shareholders. In addition, we are required to operate the properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to the properties. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements, and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet the financial obligations and make distributions to our shareholders. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 10 Table of Contents ITEM 