Risk Factors We may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements. Written forward-looking statements may appear in this document and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in press releases, in reports to shareholders, on our website, and other documents. The Private Securities Reform Act of 1995 contains a safe harbor for forward-looking statements on which the Company relies in making such disclosures. In connection with this “safe harbor”, we are hereby identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Any such statements are qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements. We are dependent on a few large customers, the loss of any of which could substantially harm our business and operating results. Historically, a substantial percentage of our sales have been to a small number of customers. During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, sales to our customers accounting for 10% or more of our net sales aggregated approximately 57.7%, 57.6% and 46.9% respectively, of our net sales. Our three largest customers during the year ended December 31, 2007 were Epson Imaging Device Corporation (formerly known as Sanyo Epson Imaging Device), Sharp Corporation and GN Netcom, each of which accounted for more than 10% of our net sales during the year. The loss of any one of our largest customers or a substantial reduction in orders from any of them would adversely impact our sales and decrease our net income or cause us to incur losses unless and until we were able to replace the customer or order with one or more of comparable size. Our quarterly and annual operating results are subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a wide variety of factors. Substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, and we are not always able to predict with certainty the timing or magnitude of these orders. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to receive any orders from our customers, and our net sales will be harmed if we are unable to obtain a sufficient number of orders from, or ship a sufficient number of products to, customers in each quarter. In addition, our customers may cancel, change or delay product purchase orders with little or no advance notice to us. Also, we believe customers may be increasing the number of vendors upon which they rely for manufacturing. Our quarterly and annual operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results during any period. This could result from any one or a combination of factors, such as: • the timing, cancellation or postponement of orders; • the type of product and related margins; • our customers’ announcement and introduction of new products or new generations of products; • the life cycles of our customers’ products; • variability in our manufacturing yields; • long lead times and advance financial commitments for our factories and equipment expenditures; • long lead times and advance financial commitments for components required to complete anticipated customer orders • our effectiveness in managing manufacturing processes, including, interruptions or slowdowns in production and changes in cost and availability of components; • changes in the specific products or quantities our customers order; and • price reductions due to competitive pressure. The volume and timing of orders received during a quarter are difficult to forecast. From time to time, our customers encounter uncertain and changing demand for their products. Customers generally order based on their forecasts. Further, we do not typically operate with any significant backlog in orders, and this makes it difficult for us to forecast our revenues, plan our production and allocate resources for future periods (including our capital expenditures). If demand falls below such forecasts or if customers do not control inventories effectively, they may reduce, cancel or postpone shipments of orders. 6 Table of Contents Because of any of the above factors, our operating results in any period should not be considered indicative of results to be expected in any future period, and fluctuations in operating results may also result in fluctuations in the market price of our common shares. Our operating results in future periods may fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. This failure to meet expectations could cause the trading price of our common shares to decline. We face increasing competition, which has had and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our gross margins. Although certain barriers to entry the electronics manufacturing services (“EMS”) industry, including technical expertise, substantial capital requirements, difficulties relating to building customer relationships and a large customer base, the barriers to entry are comparatively low and we are aware that manufacturers in Hong Kong and China may be developing or have developed the required technical capability and customer base to compete with our existing business. Competition in the EMS industry is intense, characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change and competition from major international companies. This intense competition has resulted in pricing pressures and lower gross margins in certain years. Over the last several years before 2007, our gross margins have declined substantially. Although our gross margins improved slightly in 2007 when compared with 2006, we may not be able to improve on, or even maintain the level of our 2007 gross margins in the future. In the last three years, our gross margins have fluctuated as indicated in the chart below: Recent consolidations in our industry, such as the acquisition of Solectron by Flextronics International Ltd, two of our major competitors, in the fourth quarter of 2007, may permit the competitors involved to devote significantly greater resources to the expansion of EMS services that they offer and the marketing of existing competitive services to their larger installed customer bases or to new customers attracted to larger global manufacturing organizations. We expect that competition will increase substantially because of these and other industry consolidations and alliances, as well as the emergence of new competitors. If, as a result of these competitive forces, we are compelled to continue to lower our unit prices and are unable to offset the general trend of decreases in our gross margins by increasing our sales volumes, our gross margins will continue to decline. If we cannot stem the decline in our gross margins, our ability to use internal resources to finance planned expansion may be curtailed, our dividend payments to shareholders may be decreased or eliminated, our financial position may be harmed and our stock price may fall. 7 Table of Contents We may not be able to compete successfully with our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do. We will face intense competition when we begin large-scale production of flexible printed circuit, or FPC, boards and FPC subassemblies. The electronic manufacturing services we provide are available from many independent sources as well as from our current and potential customers with in-house manufacturing capabilities. The following table identifies those companies, which we believe are our principal competitors by category of products or services we provide: Product/Service Competitor EMS Celestica, Inc. Flextronics International Ltd. Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd. Jabil Circuit, Inc Sanmina-SCI Corporation Image capturing devices and their modules Altus Technology Inc (controlled by Foxconn) Lite-On Technology Corporation Logitech International S.A. The Primax Group Mobile phone accessories Balda-Thong Fook Solutions Sdn., Bhd. Celestica, Inc. Elcoteq Network Corp. Flextronics International Ltd. Foster Corporation Foxlink Group Merry Electronics Co. Ltd. WKK International (Holdings) Ltd. RF modules Wavecom SA WKK International (Holdings) Ltd. Liquid crystal display, or LCD, panels Elec & Eltek International Holdings Limited Truly International Holdings Ltd. Varitronix International Ltd. Telecommunication subassemblies and components Flextronics International Ltd. LG. Philips LCD Co., Ltd. Samsung Electronics Varitronix International Ltd. Consumer electronic products (calculators, personal organizers and linguistic products) Computime Limited Inventec Co. Ltd. Kinpo Electronics, Inc. VTech Holdings Limited Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, manufacturing, regional shipping capabilities and logistics support and personnel resources than we do and consolidations among our competitors could result in even larger competitors emerging. As a result, we may be unable to compete successfully with these organizations in the future. When we begin large-scale production of flexible printed circuit (“FPC”) boards and FPC subassemblies, we expect to face intense competition from large FPC board manufacturers located in Taiwan, China, Korea, Singapore, North America and Europe as well as from large, established EMS providers that have developed or acquired, or, like we have, are developing their own FPC manufacturing capabilities, and have extensive experience in electronics 8 Table of Contents assembly. Furthermore, many companies in our target customer base are moving the design and manufacturing of their products to original design manufacturers (“ODMs”) in Asia. Such competition could pressure us to provide discounts or lower prices to gain or maintain market share, which could adversely affect our margins and the profitability of our FPC business and could adversely affect our operating results as a whole. In addition, if we are unable to capture ODMs as customers, we may be unable to sustain or grow our FPC business. Our inability to utilize capacity at facilities that we have planned for expansion could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. In 2007, we improved our existing facilities in Shenzhen, PRC in order to expand our capacity to produce FPC boards. We are also in the process of constructing the first of two new factories in Wuxi and plan to construct a new factory Shenzhen Guangming Hi-Tech Industrial Park (“Shenzhen Guangming”) China. Construction of the first of our factories in Wuxi to produce FPC boards and FPC subassemblies has begun and we are considering the best use of the second parcel of land in Wuxi and Shenzhen Guangming, given the amalgmated manufacturing operations post our re-organization in December 2007. Through December 31, 2007, we had spent approximately $14.1 million to modify and equip our existing Shenzhen factory for FPC manufacturing and had spent approximately $1.5 million for the construction project in Wuxi, which includes land price, construction and all related expenses. As of December 31, 2007, we spent approximately $9.0 million as the land price to acquire the land of Shenzhen Guangming. We are also required to pay a relocation allowance to local residents in a total of approximately $645,500, which we expect to be made in the first half of 2008. We have financed the improvements to our existing Shenzhen facilities, and plan to continue financing the planned Wuxi and Shenzhen Guangming factories, from internally generated funds, but cannot guarantee that we will be able to utilize fully the additional capacity that each of these new facilities will provide when they come on line. Our factory utilization is dependent on our success in providing manufacturing services for FPC boards, FPC subassemblies and LCD modules at a price and volume sufficient to absorb our increased overhead expenses. Demand for contract manufacturing of these products may not be as great as we expect, and we may fail to realize the expected benefit from our investments in any of our new factories. Delays in constructing our new factories could adversely affect our operating results. We started production of FPC boards in our existing Shenzhen factory in 2007. In December 2006, we purchased two parcels of lands in Wuxi for a total sum of $1.3 million. Our goal is for our new Wuxi facility with respect to one of the parcels to begin production of FPC boards and FPC subassemblies in early to mid-2009. As of December 2007, we spent $9.0 million as the land price to acquire the land of Shenzhen Guangming where we plan to commence the construction of a new factory in early 2009. We are now considering issues relating to maximizing efficiencies in the design, development and construction of our Shenzhen Guangming parcel and the second parcel of Wuxi properties, factoring into those consideration our the in-process integration of management and operations resulting from our recent internal reorganization. In connection with constructing and improving our manufacturing facilities, we could encounter shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen marketing situation or engineering problems, work stoppages, weather interference, flood, delays in obtaining or failure to obtain necessary permits from regulatory authorities, losses as a result of fraud or corruption or unanticipated costs increases. Any of these eventualities could extend the time for these factories to begin significant production, which, in turn would delay our receipt of anticipated revenues to be generated from such production and adversely affect our operating results. Cancellations or delays in orders could materially and adversely affect our gross margins and operating results. Our sales to original equipment manufacturer customers (“OEMs”), are primarily based on purchase orders that we receive from time to time rather than firm, long-term purchase commitments. Although it is our general practice to purchase raw materials only upon receiving a purchase order, for certain customers we will occasionally purchase raw materials based on such customers’ rolling forecasts. Further, during times of potential component shortages, we have purchased, and may continue to purchase, raw materials and component parts in the expectation of receiving purchase orders for products that use these components. In the event actual purchase orders are delayed, are not received or are cancelled, we would experience increased inventory levels or possible write-offs of obsolete inventory, write-downs of raw materials inventory or the underutilization of our manufacturing capacity if, for example, we decline other potential orders because we expect to use our capacity to produce orders that are later delayed, reduced or canceled. 9 Table of Contents Our customers face numerous competitive challenges, such as rapid technological change and short life cycles for their products, which may materially adversely affect their business, and also ours. Factors affecting the industries that utilize electronics components in general, and our customers specifically, could seriously harm our customers and, as a result, us. These factors include: • The inability of our customers to adapt to rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards, which result in short product life cycles. • The inability of our customers to develop and market their products, some of which are new and untested, the potential that our customers’ products may become obsolete or the failure of our customers’ products to gain widespread commercial acceptance. • Recessionary periods in our customers’ markets. • Increased competition among our customers and their respective competitors which may result in a loss of business, or a reduction in pricing power, for our customers. • New product offerings by our customers’ competitors may prove to be more successful than our customers’ product offerings. If our customers are unsuccessful in addressing these competitive challenges, or any others that they may face, then their business may be materially adversely affected, and as a result, the demand for our services could decline. Our business has been characterized by a rapidly changing mix of products and customers. Our business has been characterized by a rapidly changing mix of products and customers, driven in significant part by changes in demand for consumer electronics as well as technological innovation. We manufacture headsets containing Bluetooth wireless technology, mobile phone accessories, home entertainment products, printed circuit board assemblies (“PCBAs”) for headsets containing Bluetooth wireless technology, radio frequency, or RF, modules, thin film transistor liquid crystal display (“TFT LCD”) modules, color LCD modules and complementary metal oxide semiconductor (“CMOS”) sensor modules, FPC boards, FPC subassemblies, and digital audio broadcast (“DAB”) modules. We expect that a substantial portion of our growth will come from the manufacturing of these products. Certain products have become less economically significant to us over time, such as monochrome LCD modules for mobile phone headsets, for which our sales have dropped significantly in each of the past few years since 2002 as end use customers are increasingly choosing color LCD panels instead. We expect that our current mix of customers and products will continue to change rapidly, and we believe this to be relatively common in the EMS industry. If the products of our customers that we manufacture become obsolete or less profitable and we are not able to diversify our product offerings or customer base in a timely manner, our business would be materially and adversely affected. There may not be a sufficient market for new products that our customers or we develop. Our customers may not develop new products in a timely and cost-effective manner, or the market for products they choose to develop may not grow or be sustained in line with their expectations. This would reduce the overall businesses they outsource, which would seriously affect our business and operating results. Even if we develop capabilities to manufacture new products, there can be no guarantee that a market exists or will develop for such products or that such products will adequately respond to market trends. If we invest resources to develop capabilities to manufacture or expand capabilities for existing and new products, like the investments we made to our existing facilities in Shenzhen and the investments we are making to the new factories we are planning to construct in Wuxi and Guangming Shenzhen, PRC to manufacture FPC boards, FPC subassemblies and other products for which sales do not develop, our business and operating results would be seriously harmed. Even if the market for our services grows, it may not grow at an adequate pace. We must spend substantial amounts to maintain and develop advanced manufacturing processes and engage additional engineering personnel in order to attract new customers and business. We operate in a rapidly changing industry. Technological advances, the introduction of new products and new manufacturing and design techniques could materially and adversely affect our business unless we are able to adapt to those changing conditions. As a result, we are continually required to commit substantial funds for, and 10 Table of Contents significant resources to, engaging additional engineering and other technical personnel and to purchase advanced design, production and test equipment. Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on our ability to continue to provide new manufacturing solutions which, based on time to introduction, cost and performance with the manufacturing capabilities of OEMs and competitive third-party suppliers compare favorably to those offered by our competitors. Our success in attracting new customers and developing new business depends on various factors, including: • utilization of advances in technology; • development of new or improved manufacturing processes for our customers’ products; • delivery of efficient and cost-effective services; and • timely completion of the manufacture of new products. Our business is capital intensive and the failure to generate sufficient cash could require that we curtail capital expenditures. To remain competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in capital equipment, facilities and technological improvements. We expect that substantial capital will be required to continue to expand our manufacturing capacity and capability and provide working capital for growth. We plan to finance our expansion with capital we generate from operations. If we are unable to generate sufficient funds to conduct existing operations and fund our expansion, we may have to curtail our capital expenditures. Any curtailment of our capital expenditures could result in a reduction in net sales, reduction or elimination of our dividends to shareholders, reduced quality of our products, increased manufacturing costs for our products, harm to our reputation, reduced manufacturing efficiencies or other harm to our business. We generally have no written agreements with suppliers to obtain components and our margins and operating results could suffer from increases in component prices. For certain customers, we are responsible for purchasing components used in manufacturing their products. We do not have written agreements with some of our suppliers of components. This typically results in our bearing the risk of component price increases because we may be unable to procure the required materials at a price level necessary to generate anticipated margins from the orders of our customers. Accordingly, increases in component prices could materially and adversely affect our gross margins and operating results. Our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected if our suppliers of needed components fail to meet our needs. At various times, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience, shortages of some of the electronic components that we use, and suppliers of some components lack sufficient capacity to meet the demand for these components. In some cases, supply shortages and delays in deliveries of particular components have resulted in curtailed production, or delays in production, of assemblies using that component, which contributed to an increase in our inventory levels and reduction in our gross margins. We expect that shortages and delays in deliveries of some components will continue. If we are unable to obtain sufficient components on a timely basis, we may experience manufacturing delays, which could harm our relationships with current or prospective customers and reduce our sales. We also depend on a small number of suppliers for certain components that we use in our business. If we were to be unable to continue to purchase components from these limited source suppliers, our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. Labor shortages in Southern China has adversely affected our gross margins and will likely continue to do so in the future. To date, we have conducted all of our manufacturing operations in Southern China, specifically in Guangdong province, where we were able to take advantage of the lower overhead costs and inexpensive labor rates as compared to Hong Kong. Historically, there has been an abundance of labor in Southern China, but since 2002, intensifying in 2004 and continuing to worsen since then, factories in Southern China have been facing a labor shortages as migrant workers engaged in production (typically young women and men who come from various rural provinces in the PRC for the purpose of working for wages higher than are available in such rural regions), technical workers and middle level management seek better wages and working conditions in other provinces of China. A recent survey conducted by Guangdong labor authorities predicts that the labor shortage in Guangdong will worsen in 2008 11 Table of Contents as demand for technically skilled workers rises by 20% and the number of ordinary workers needed rises by 10%. Past efforts by Guangdong authorities seeking to arrest the labor shortages by removing the ban on hiring new migrant laborers in the month after the Lunar New Year holiday and raising the minimum wage do not appear to have been successful at luring workers back to Southern China and such changes to the minimum wage have adversely impacted our gross margins. This trend of labor shortages is expected to continue, fueled by the effects of the one-child policy imposed by the Chinese government over the past three decades and will likely result in increasing wages as companies seek to keep their existing work forces. Continuing labor shortages can be expected to adversely impact our future operating results by, for example, preventing us from manufacturing at peak capacity and forcing us to increase wages and benefits to attract the diminishing pool of available workers. This would result in lower revenues and increased manufacturing costs, which would adversely affect gross margins. Recent changes in the PRC’s labor law restricts Nam Tai’s ability to reduce its workforce in the event of an economic downturn. In June 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC enacted new labor law legislation called the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. It formalizes workers’ rights concerning overtime hours, pensions, layoffs, employment contracts and the role of trade unions. Considered one of the strictest labor laws in the world, among other things, this new law requires an employer to conclude an “open-ended employment contract” with any employee who either has worked for the employer for 10 years or more or has had two consecutive fixed-term contracts. An “open-ended employment contract” is in effect a lifetime, permanent contract, which is terminable only in specified circumstances, such as a material breach of the employer’s rules and regulations, or for a serious dereliction of duty. Such employment contracts with qualifying workers would not be terminable if, for example, Nam Tai determined to downsize its workforce in the event of a economic downturn. Under the new law, downsizing by 20% or more may occur only under specified circumstances, such as a restructuring undertaken pursuant China’s Enterprise Bankruptcy Law, or where a company suffers serious difficulties in production and/or business operations. Nam Tai’s entire staff, who are employed to work exclusively within the PRC, is covered by the new law and thus, Nam Tai’s ability to adjust the size of its operations when necessary in periods of recession or less severe economic downturns has been curtailed. Accordingly, if Nam Tai faces future periods of decline in business activity generally or adverse economic periods specific to Nam Tai’s business, this new law can be expected to exacerbate the adverse effect of the economic environment on Nam Tai’s results of operations and financial condition. Factors affecting the electronics industry in general and our customers in particular have harmed our operations and could do so again in the future. Most of our sales are to customers in the electronics industry, which is subject to rapid technological change, product obsolescence and short product life cycles. The factors affecting the electronics industry in general, or any of our major customers or competitors in particular, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our success depends to a significant extent on the success achieved by our customers in developing and marketing their products, especially products that use RF modules, color straight-twisted nematic (“CSTN”) LCD modules, TFT LCD modules, CMOS sensor modules, FPC subassemblies and boards, and DAB modules, some of which may be new and untested. If our customers’ products become obsolete, fail to gain widespread commercial acceptance or become the subject of intellectual property disputes, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. From time to time, our customers have experienced significant decreases in demand for their products and services. This volatility has resulted, and may result in the future, in our customers delaying purchases of the products we manufacture for them and our customers placing purchase orders for lower volumes of products than previously anticipated. For example, during 2007 one of our indirect customers, engaged in the manufacture and sale of mobile phones and other mobile devices, suffered a substantial drop in sales volume in its mobile devices business in Asia and Europe which, in turn, adversely affected sales in our telecommunication components assembly (“TCA”) products segment, resulting in our 2007 net sales from that segment decreasing by over $214 million, or 34.1%, from comparable 2006 net sales. To date, we have seen no signs that the decreases in demand in the mobile phone market is reversing and we accordingly expect, at least in the near term during 2008, that sales in our TCA segment will continue the trend evidenced in 2007, will decline from levels we experienced in 2006 and may decrease from TCA product sales levels we reported in 2007. In the first few years of the new century, as a result of the economic downturn in the United States and internationally, and reduced capital spending, sales to OEMs in the electronics industry declined substantially. While 12 Table of Contents our market has recovered, we cannot assure you that this recovery is sustainable or that the industry will not again suffer declines similar to those occurring in 2001 and 2002, or worse. We are exposed to impact of global business trends in the mobile phone industry, which could result in even lower gross margins on the mobile phone components and subassemblies we manufacture. During the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 71.4% of our sales were derived from subassemblies and components for mobile phones and mobile phone accessories. Accordingly, any fluctuations in the size of the mobile phone market, market trends, increased competition or pricing pressure of mobile phone industry may affect our business and operating results. For example, the mobile phone industry has been experiencing rapid growth, particularly from emerging economies such as India and China. The growth in these markets, however, does not necessarily translate into increased margins or growing profits as mobile phones sold in developing countries are typically stripped down to basic features and sold for low prices. Competition in developing markets is fierce, even more intense than in countries with advanced economies. Accordingly, we expect that our margins and profitability of the components and assemblies we manufacture for use in mobile phones that our customers target for emerging economies to continue to undergo severe pricing pressures, resulting in lower margins on these products than those we have experienced historically. Our customers are dependent on shipping companies for delivery of our products and interruptions to shipping could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our customers rely on a variety of carriers for product transportation through various world ports. A work stoppage, strike or shutdown of one or more major ports or airports could result in shipping delays materially and adversely affecting our customers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Similarly, an increase in freight surcharges from rising fuel costs or general price increases could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our products are sold internationally and the effect of business, legal and political risks associated with international operations could significantly harm us. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 99.8% of the net book value of our total property, plant and equipment was located in China. We sell our products to customers in Hong Kong, North America, Europe, Japan, China and Southeast Asia. Our international operations are subject to significant political and economic risks and legal uncertainties, including: • changes in economic and political conditions and in governmental policies; • changes in international and domestic customs regulations; • wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts; • changes in tariffs, trade restrictions, trade agreements and taxation; • limitations on the repatriation of funds because of foreign exchange controls; • exposure to political and financial instability; • currency exchange losses, collection difficulties or other country-specific losses; • exposure to fluctuations in the value of local currencies; • changes in value-added tax, or VAT, reimbursement; • imposition of currency exchange controls; and • delays from customs brokers or government agencies. Any of these risks could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our operating results could be negatively impacted by seasonality. Historically, our sales and operating results have been affected by seasonality. Sales of products and components related to mobile phones have generally been lower in the first quarter after peaking fourth quarter. Sales of educational products and home entertainment devices are often higher during the second and third quarters in anticipation of the start of the school year and the Christmas buying season. Similarly, orders for consumer electronics 13 Table of Contents products have historically been lower in the first quarter from both the closing of our factories in China for the Lunar New Year holidays and the general reduction in sales following the holiday season. These sales patterns may not be indicative of future sales performance in future. Our results could be adversely affected with intensifying environmental regulations. Our operations create environmentally sensitive waste, which involves the use and disposal of chemicals, solid and hazardous waste and other toxic and hazardous materials used in the manufacturing process. The disposal of hazardous waste has received increasing attention from Chinese national and local governments and foreign governments and agencies and has been subject to increasing regulation. Currently, relevant Chinese environmental protection laws and regulations impose fines on discharge of waste materials and empower certain environmental authorities to close any facility that causes serious environmental problems. The costs of remedying violations or resolving enforcement actions that might be initiated by governmental authorities could be substantial. Any remediation of environmental contamination would involve substantial expense that could harm our operating results. In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our operations may be subject or the manner in which existing or future laws will be administered or interpreted. Future regulations may be applied to materials, products or activities that have not been subject to regulation previously. The costs of complying with new or more stringent regulations could be significant. We are not aware of any claims related to environmental contamination, and have not accrued any amounts to cover such claims. Global environmental legislation continues to emerge. These laws place increased responsibility and requirements on the “producers” of electronic equipment ( i.e , the OEMs) and, in turn, their EMS providers and suppliers. On July 1, 2006, the European Union’s Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) came into effect. As a result, the use of lead and certain other specified substances in electronic products is restricted in the European Union. Where appropriate, we have transitioned our manufacturing processes and interfaced with suppliers and customers to review and secure RoHS compliance. In the event we are not in compliance with the RoHS requirements, we could incur substantial costs, including fines and penalties, as well as liability to our customers. In addition, customers who were deemed exempt for certain substances, or beyond the scope of the legislation, are beginning to be impacted by the changing supply chain. In this respect, we may incur costs related to inventories containing restricted substances. There are also European Union requirements with respect to the collection, recycling and management of waste electronic products and components. Under the European Union’s Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) directive, compliance responsibility rests primarily with OEMs rather than with EMS companies. However, OEMs may turn to EMS companies such as Nam Tai for assistance in meeting their WEEE obligations. Failure by our customers to meet the RoHS or WEEE requirements or obligations could have a negative impact on their businesses and revenue which would adversely impact our financial results. Similar restrictions are being proposed or enacted in other jurisdictions, including China. We cannot currently assess the impact of these legislations on our operations. The recent reorganization of our group structure may not result in the expected synergies or benefits or justify the expenses incurred to effect it. On December 31, 2007, we completed the reorganization of the Nam Tai Group structure involving our Hong Kong Stock Exchange-listed subsidiaries, Nam Tai Electronic & Electrical Products Limited (“NTEEP”) and J.I.C. Technology Company Limited (“JIC”). Our goal in proposing and effecting this reorganization was to centralize our electronic manufacturing services into one group of our subsidiaries, namely NTEEP and its subsidiaries, and our software services into another group of our subsidiaries, viz., JIC and its subsidiaries, thereby eliminating the overlap and duplication in infrastructure and functions of these businesses that existed prior to the reorganization. We expended and incurred approximately $1.9 million in professional fees and related expenses to propose and implement the reorganization. Our expectations from the reorganization once our businesses have been fully integrated into, and our personnel acclimated to, the new structure are that our operations will benefit from a simpler organizational structure, which we believe can foster a more efficient and effective exchange of know-how and technology among our respective group companies; reduce overhead costs; and allow for stronger management controls. However, even when fully implemented, we may not realize the anticipated synergies from the reorganization and our operations and overhead costs may not meaningfully benefit from it or justify the expenses we incurred to effect the reorganization. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the risks related to our operations and losses. We have not experienced any major accidents in the course of our operations, which have caused significant property damage or personal injuries. However, there is no assurance that we will not experience major accidents in the future. Although we have insurance against various risks, including a business interruption, fidelity and losses or 14 Table of Contents damages to our buildings, machinery, equipment and inventories, the occurrence of certain incidents such as earthquake, war, pandemics, and flood, and the consequences resulting from them, may not be covered adequately, or at all, by the insurance we maintain. We also face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of our products is alleged to have resulted in property damage, bodily injury or other adverse effects. We have only limited product liability insurance covering some of our products. Losses incurred or payments we may be required to make in excess of applicable insurance coverage or for uninsured events or any material claim for which insurance coverage is denied, limited or is not available could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We have suffered material losses from litigation involving claims against Tele-Art Inc.(“Tele-Art”) and related proceedings. For a number of years, we have been involved in litigation against Tele-Art, its initial liquidator and the Bank of China (Hong Kong) Limited, or the Bank of China, formerly known as Bank of China Hong Kong Branch, concerning, among things, the priority of claims against Tele-Art’s insolvent estate and Nam Tai’s rights to have redeemed in 1999 and 2002 an aggregate of 1,017,149 (giving effect to our three-for-one stock split and one-for-ten stock dividend that we made in 2003) of the common shares of Nam Tai beneficially held by Tele-Art Inc. in order to satisfy a portion of Nam Tai’s claims against Tele-Art. After several decisions by the courts of the British Virgin Islands and appeals in these proceedings, judgment was rendered on November 20, 2006 by the Lords of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council of the United Kingdom, which required us to reinstate the 1,017,149 Nam Tai shares that we had previously redeemed from Tele-Art and deliver them to Bank of China on account of its secured claim against Tele-Art. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we accounted for the reinstatement of the shares at their fair value, i.e. the market closing price on November 20, 2006, the date of the Judgment. We have been advised that Bank of China sold 539,830 of the reinstated shares in early September 2007 and applied the proceeds to the secured debt that Bank of China claimed was due to it from Tele-Art. The proceeds from the sale retained by Bank of China included the amount it asserted to satisfy the obligation it claimed from Tele-Art through the date of sale, plus a reserve of approximately $900,000 for legal costs and expenses that Bank of China has claimed for related litigation. We have been advised by our legal advisers that such retention is wrongful. We intend to issue legal proceedings against the Bank of China for such wrongful retention and for an account of the sale proceeds retained by it in purported satisfaction of the ebts due to it. Bank of China delivered to Tele-Art’s liquidator the 477,319 shares remaining from the reinstated shares it sold. Investigations on behalf of the liquidator seeking to locate and recover additional Tele-Art assets for its estate in liquidation are ongoing. The liquidator has authorized us to utilize the cash dividends attributable to the reinstated shares for the benefit of the estate of Tele-Art (in Liquidation). We have deposited such cash dividends and will deposit proceeds realized from the sale of the remaining reinstated shares and any other assets of Tele-Art’s estate that are discovered into a segregated bank account, from which all future legal costs and other expenses relating to the liquidation of Tele-Art will be paid until its liquidation proceedings are concluded. As legal proceedings are exprected to continuous for quite some time, we run the view that substantial legal costs and other expenses may be incurred in the future. We could become involved in intellectual property disputes. We do not have any patents, licenses, or trademarks material to our business. Instead, we rely on trade secrets, industry expertise and our customers sharing of intellectual property with us. However, there can be no assurance that such intellectual property is not in violation of that belonging to other parties. We may be notified that we are infringing patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights owned by other parties. In the event of an infringement claim, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to develop a non-infringing alternative or to obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing such an alternative or obtaining a license on reasonable terms, if at all. Any litigation, even without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We depend on our executive officers and skilled personnel. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers as well as upon our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, manufacturing and marketing personnel. Generally, our executive officers are bound by employment or non-competition agreements. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able retain our executive officers and we could be seriously harmed by the loss of any of our executive officers. The loss of service of any of these officers or key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business growth and operating results. We maintain no key person insurance on our executive officers. As our operations grow, we also 15 Table of Contents need to recruit and retain additional skilled management personnel and if we are not able to do so, our business and our ability to grow could be harmed. Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the PRC government to regulate its economy may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. All of our manufacturing facilities and most of our operations are in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in respect of various areas such as structure, governmental involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, China’s economy was a planned economy. Subsequently, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of China’s economy, including the encouragement of private economic activities and decentralization of economic regulation with a move towards a market economy. However, the PRC government retains a large role in industrial output (which is majority state-owned), the allocation of resources, production, pricing and management, and there can be no assurance that the PRC government will continue to pursue a policy of economic reform and they may significantly alter them to our detriment from time to time without notice. Furthermore, in all cases we may not be able to capitalize on the economic reform measures adopted by the PRC government. Our operations and financial results could be adversely affected by changes in political, economic and social conditions or the relevant policies of the PRC government, such as changes in laws and regulations (or the interpretations thereof), measures which might be introduced to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and the imposition of additional import restrictions. The nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises by the PRC government could result in the total loss of our investment in China. Furthermore, significant portions of economic activities in China are export-driven at present and, therefore, are affected by developments in the economies of China’s principal trading partners and other export-driven economies. The PRC legal system has inherent uncertainties that could materially and adversely impact our ability to enforce the agreements governing our factories and to do business. We occupy our manufacturing facilities under China land use agreements with agencies of the PRC government and we occupy other facilities under lease agreements with the relevant landlord. The performance of these agreements and the operations of our factories are dependent on our relationship with the local governments in regions, which our facilities are located. Our operations and prospects would be materially and adversely affected by the failure of the local government to honor these agreements or an adverse change in the law governing them. In the event of a dispute, enforcement of these agreements could be difficult in China. Unlike the United States, China has a civil law system based on written statutes in which judicial decisions have limited precedential value. The government of China has enacted laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, its experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited, and our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes in China is unpredictable. These matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the PRC government, and forces and factors unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. Political or trade controversies between China and the United States could harm our operating results or depress our stock price. Differences between the United States and PRC governments on some political issues continue occasionally to color the relationship. These occasional controversies could materially and adversely effect our business and operations. Political or trade friction between the two countries could also materially and adversely effect the market price of our shares, whether or not they adversely effect our business. A deterioration of relations between China and Japan may harm our business. While our production facilities are located in China, we derive a substantial amount of our sales from Japanese customers. With respect to our major customers accounting for 10% or more of our net sales, customers in Japan represented approximately 57.7%, 57.6% and 36.1% of our net sales for each of the years ended December31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Our business is therefore vulnerable to any deterioration of relations or disruption of trade between China and Japan. Beginning in the spring of 2005, relations between China and Japan grew increasingly strained. This culminated in a week of anti-Japan protests throughout China, which included attacks on Japanese citizens and 16 Table of Contents property and a boycott on Japanese imports. While relations between Japan and China appeared to improve since 2006, if relations again become strained, our Japanese customers and other companies based in Japan may become reluctant to outsource manufacturing to us and other EMS providers based in China. There is also the possibility that our operations in China could be targeted by anti-Japan protestors or for boycotts because of the presence of a number of our managers and employees who are Japanese or because of our relationships with Japanese customers. A reduction in business from Japanese customers or harm cause to our facilities or personnel from anti-Japanese sentiment could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. The economy of China has been experiencing significant growth, leading to some inflation. If the government tries to control inflation by traditional means of monetary policy or returns to planned economic techniques, our business will suffer a reduction in sales growth and expansion opportunities. The rapid growth of the PRC economy has historically resulted in high levels of inflation. If the government tries to control inflation, it may have an adverse effect on the business climate and growth of private enterprise in the PRC. An economic slowdown may increase our costs. If inflation is allowed to proceed unchecked, our costs would likely increase, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to increase our prices to an extent that would offset the increase in our expenses. Changes to PRC tax laws and heightened efforts by the China’s tax authorities to increase revenues are expected to subject us to greater taxes. Under prior PRC law, we have been afforded a number of tax concessions by, and tax refunds from, China’s tax authorities on a substantial portion of our operations in China by reinvesting all or part of the profits attributable to our PRC manufacturing operations. However, on March 16, 2007, the Chinese government enacted a new unified enterprise income tax law which became effective on January 1, 2008. Prior to this new income tax law, as a foreign invested enterprise located in Shenzhen, PRC, our PRC subsidiaries enjoyed a national income tax rate of 15% and were exempted from the 3% local income tax. However, under the new income tax law, apart from those qualified as high-tech enterprises, most domestic enterprises and foreign invested enterprises would be subject to a single PRC enterprise income tax rate and gradually transfer to the new tax rate of 25% within five years. For information on the new enterprise income tax, (“EIT”) rates as announced recently by the PRC’s State Council, please see the table in Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects The preferential tax treatment to our subsidiaries in the PRC of qualifying for tax refunds as a result of reinvesting their profits earned in previous years in the PRC also expired on January 1, 2008. Therefore, the impact of this increase on our overall tax rate will depend on, among other things, our income from of PRC subsidiaries, the actual implementation of the terms of transition under the EIT by the PRC government and our ability to qualify our existing operations as high-tech enterprises under the new law. We base our tax position upon the anticipated nature and conduct of our business and upon our understanding of the tax laws of the various countries in which we have asset or conduct activities. However, our tax position is subject to review and possible challenge by taxing authorities and to possible changes in law, which may have retroactive effect. We cannot determine in advance the extent to which some jurisdictions may require us to pay taxes or make payments in lieu of taxes. Payment of dividends by our subsidiaries in the PRC to us is subject to restrictions under PRC law. The new PRC tax law could force us to reduce the amount of dividends we have historically paid to our shareholders or possibly eliminate them or we may decide not pay dividends in the future. Under PRC law, dividends may be paid only out of distributable profits. Distributable profits with respect to our subsidiaries in the PRC refers to after-tax profits as determined in accordance with accounting principles and financial regulations applicable to PRC enterprises (“China GAAP“) less any recovery of accumulated losses and allocations to statutory funds that it is required to make. Any distributable profits that are not distributed in a given year are retained and available for distribution in subsequent years. The calculation of distributable profits under China GAAP differs in many respects from the calculation under U.S. GAAP. As a result, our subsidiaries in PRC may not be able to pay any dividend in a given year as determined under U.S. GAAP. The China’s tax authorities may require changes in determining income of the Company that would limit its ability to pay dividends and make other distributions. PRC law requires companies, including our PRC subsidiaries, to reserve about 11% of their profits for future development and staff welfare, which amounts are not distributable as dividends. These rules and possible changes to them could restrict our PRC subsidiaries from repatriating funds ultimately to us and our stockholders as dividends. 17 Table of Contents Prior to the new EIT law, PRC-organized companies were exempt from withholding taxes with respect to earnings distributions, or dividends, paid to shareholders of PRC companies outside the PRC, such as was the case when our PRC subsidiaries distributed portions of their earnings to our offshore subsidiaries. However, under the new EIT Law, dividends payable to foreign investors which are derived from sources within the PRC will be subject to income tax at the rate of 10% by way of withholding unless the foreign investors are companies incorporated in countries which have tax treaty agreement with PRC and rate agreed by both parties will be applied. For example, under the terms of a tax treaty between Hong Kong and the PRC that became effective in December 2006, distributions from our PRC subsidiaries to our Hong Kong subsidiary, will be subject to a withholding tax at a rate ranging from 5% to 10%, depending on the extent of ownership of equity interests held by our Hong Kong subsidiary in our PRC enterprises. As a result of this new PRC withholding tax, amounts available to us in earnings distributions from our PRC enterprises will be reduced. Since we derive most of our profits from our subsidiaries in PRC, the reduction in amounts available for distribution from our PRC enterprises could, depending on the income generated by our PRC subsidiaries, force us to reduce, or possibly eliminate, the dividends we have paid to our shareholders historically. For this reason, or other factors, we may decide not to declare dividends in the future. If we do pay dividends, we will determine the amounts when they are declared and even if we do declare dividends in the future, we may not continue them in any future period. We may have been a passive foreign investment company for 2007 or may become a passive foreign investment company for the current taxable year of 2008, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, by the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such characterization could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences if you are a U.S. investor. For example, if we were to be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year, U.S. investors who owned our common shares generally would be subject to increased U.S. tax liabilities and reporting requirements, and pledges of our common shares would be considered sales for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The determination of whether we are a PFIC in any taxable year is made on an annual basis and depends on the composition of our income and assets. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC if, after applying relevant look-through rules with respect to the income and assets of subsidiaries, either (i) 75% or more of our gross income for such taxable year is passive income, or (ii) 50% or more of the average percentage of our assets during such taxable year either produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. We have not determined whether we were a PFIC for the 2007 taxable year, but we may have been so. In addition, we may become a PFIC for the current taxable year of 2008. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we have not or will not be classified as a PFIC. Given the complexity of the issues regarding our classification as a PFIC, U.S. investors are urged to consult their own tax advisors for guidance as to our PFIC status. For further discussion of the adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences of our classification as a PFIC see “Taxation — United States Federal Income Tax Consequences — U.S. Holders — PFIC Considerations,” below. Changes in foreign exchange regulations of China could adversely affect our operating results. Some of our earnings are denominated in yuan, the base unit of the RMB. The People’s Bank of China and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) regulate the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies. Under the current unified floating exchange rate system, the People’s Bank of China publishes a daily exchange rate for RMB based on the previous day’s dealings in the inter-bank foreign exchange market. Financial institutions may enter into foreign exchange transactions at exchange rates within an authorized range above or below the exchange rate published by the People’s Bank of China according to the market conditions. Since 1996, the PRC government has issued a number of rules, regulations and notices regarding foreign exchange control designed to provide for greater convertibility of RMB. Under such regulations, any foreign investment enterprise (“FIE”) must establish a “current account” and a “capital account” with a bank authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Currently, FIEs are able to exchange RMB into foreign exchange currencies at designated foreign exchange banks for settlement of current account transactions, which include payment of dividends based on the board resolutions authorizing the distribution of profits or dividends of the company concerned, without the approval of SAFE. Conversion of RMB into foreign currencies for capital account transactions, which include the receipt and payment of foreign exchange for loans, capital contributions and the purchase of fixed assets, continues to be subject to limitations and requires the approval of SAFE. Our subsidiaries in China are all FIEs and subject to the laws of China to which such regulations apply. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient foreign exchange to make relevant payments or satisfy other foreign exchange requirements in the future. 18 Table of Contents Our financial results have been affected by changes in currency exchange rates. Changes in currency rates involving the Japanese yen or renminbi could increase our expenses. Our financial results have been affected by currency fluctuations, resulting in total foreign exchange gains during each of our last three fiscal years as indicated in the following chart: We sell most of our products in U.S. dollars and pay our expenses in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen, Hong Kong dollars and RMB. While we face a variety of risks associated with changes among the relative value of these currencies, we believe the most significant exchange risk presently results from material purchases we make in Japanese yen and expenses we pay in RMB. Approximately 3%, 11% and 8% of our material costs have been in Japanese yen during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007 respectively, but sales made in Japanese yen accounted for only 2%, 9% and 7%, respectively, of our sales for each of the last three years. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the exchange rate of the Japanese yen to the U.S. dollar fluctuated above and below the rate at December 31, 2005, but at December 31, 2006, the exchange rate of Japanese yen to the U.S. dollar had increased approximately 1% from the level at the end of December 31, 2005. This fluctuation resulted in a slight increase in our material costs during 2006 but it did not have a material impact on our 2006 financial results as compared to those in 2005. A future appreciation of the Japanese yen against U.S. dollars would increase our costs when translated into U.S. dollars and could adversely affect our margins unless we made sufficient sales in Japanese yen to offset against material purchases we made in Japanese yen. Approximately 9% and 13% of our total costs and expenses and 2% and 4% of our material costs were in RMB during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Between 1994 and July 2005, the market and official RMB rates were unified and the value of the RMB was essentially pegged to the U.S. dollar and was relatively stable. On July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China adjusted the exchange rate of RMB to the U.S. dollar by linking the RMB to a basket of currencies and simultaneously setting the exchange rate of RMB to U.S. dollars, from 1:8.27, to a narrow band of around 1:8.11, resulting in an approximate 2.4% appreciation in the value of the RMB against the U.S. dollars at the end of 2005, from the July 21, 2005 RMB adjustment, a 3.3% appreciation at the end of 2006 as compared to the end of 2005 and a further 6.5% appreciation at the end of 2007 as compared to the end of 2006. This RMB appreciation to the U.S. dollars resulted in an increase in our total costs and expenses of approximately 0.9% based on the difference between our sales made in RMB versus our total costs and expenses incurred in RMB. If the trend of RMB appreciation to the U.S. dollar continues or the PRC government allows a further and significant RMB appreciation, our operating costs would further increase and our financial results would be adversely effected unless our RMB denominated sales increased commensurately. If we determined to pass onto our customers through price increases the effect of increases in the RMB relative to the U.S. dollars, it would make our products more expensive in global markets, such as the United States and the European Union. This could result in the loss of customers, who may seek, and be able to obtain, products and services comparable to those we offer in lower-cost 19 Table of Contents regions of the world. If we did not increase our prices to pass on the effect of increases in the RMB relative to the U.S. dollars, our margins and profitability would suffer. Power shortages in China could harm our operations. We consume substantial amounts of electricity in our manufacturing processes at our production facilities in China. Certain parts of China have been subject to power shortages in recent years. We have experienced a number of power shortages at our production facilities in China to date. We are sometimes given advance notice of power shortages and in relation to this we currently have a backup power system. However, there can be no assurance that in the future our backup power system will be completely effective in the event of a power shortage, particularly if that power shortage is over a sustained period of time and/or we are not given advance notice thereof. Any power shortage, brownout or blackout for a significant period of time may disrupt our manufacturing, and as a result, may have an adverse impact on our business. A recurrence of SARS or the threat of an avian flu outbreak in China, or similar widespread public health developments may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Any recurrence of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”) and Avian Influenza in China could negatively impact our manufacturing operations and cause significant delays in production. In addition, if the outbreak of Avian Influenza in Asian countries, including Vietnam, South Korea and Japan were to spread to China, where manufacturing facilities are located or are being constructed, there could be similar or other disruptions to our business. Actual or perceived health risks associated with the use of mobile phone handsets or other communications equipment could negatively affect our business. There have been public concerns about health risks arising from electromagnetic fields generated by mobile phone handsets. Any perceived risks or new findings, regardless of their scientific foundation, concerning the potential adverse health effects of mobile communications equipment could negatively affect our reputation and brand value, or that of our direct or indirect customers, and could result in a reduction in sales. We cannot assure you that we will not become the subject of product liability claims or be held liable for such claims or be required to comply with future regulatory changes that may have an adverse effect on our business. The market price of our shares will likely be subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations. The markets for equity securities have been volatile and the price of our common shares has been and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to variations in operating results, news announcements, trading volume, sales of common shares by our officers, directors and our principal shareholders, customers, suppliers or other publicly traded companies, general market trends both domestically and internationally, currency movements and interest rate fluctuations. Other events, such as the issuance of common shares upon the exercise of our outstanding stock options could also materially and adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares. Further, the stock markets have often experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies and that have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common shares. The concentration of share ownership in our senior management allows them to control or substantially influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. On February 29, 2008, members of our senior management and Board of Directors as a group beneficially owned approximately 27.0% of our common shares. As a result, acting together, they may be able to control and substantially influence the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This ability may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Nam Tai, or causing a change in control of Nam Tai that may not be favored by our other shareholders. Regulatory initiatives in the United States , such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules and regulations may increase the time and costs of certain activities. In the United States, there have been regulatory changes especially in corporate governance practices of public bodies, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and changes in the continued listing rules of the New York Stock Exchange, and new accounting pronouncements and there may be new regulatory legislation and rule and 20 Table of Contents accounting changes, which may have an adverse impact on our future financial position and operating results. These regulatory changes and other legislative initiatives have made some activities more time-consuming and increased financial compliance and administrative costs of the companies that are subject to them, including foreign private issuers like Nam Tai having securities traded in the United States and thereby subject to legislative and regulatory changes in the U.S. capital markets. We continue to evaluate and monitor developments with respect to these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. It may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against our management or us. We are a British Virgin Islands holding corporation with subsidiaries in the British Virgin Islands, Hong Kong, Macao and China. Substantially, all of our assets are located in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and executive officers reside within the PRC or Hong Kong, and substantially all of the assets of these persons are located within the PRC or Hong Kong. It may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside the PRC or Hong Kong upon our directors, or executive officers, including effecting service of process with respect to matters arising under United States federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. The PRC does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States and many other countries. As a result, recognition and enforcement in the PRC of judgments of a court in the United States or many other jurisdictions in relation to any matter, including securities laws, may be difficult or impossible. Furthermore, an original action may be brought in the PRC against our assets and our subsidiaries, our directors and executive officers only if the actions are not required to be arbitrated by PRC law and only if the facts alleged in the complaint give rise to a cause of action under PRC law. In connection with any such original action, a PRC court may award civil liability, including monetary damages. No treaty exists between Hong Kong, the British Virgin Islands or Macao and the United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. However, the courts of Hong Kong and the British Virgin Islands are generally prepared to accept a foreign judgment as evidence of a debt due. An action may then be commenced in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands for recovery of this debt. A Hong Kong or British Virgin Islands court will only accept a foreign judgment as evidence of a debt due if: • the judgment is for a liquidated amount in a civil matter; • the judgment is final and conclusive and has not been stayed or satisfied in full; • the judgment is not, directly or indirectly, for the payment of foreign taxes, penalties, fines or charges of a like nature (in this regard, a Hong Kong or British Virgin Islands court is unlikely to accept a judgment for an amount obtained by doubling, trebling or otherwise multiplying a sum assessed as compensation for the loss or damage sustained by the person in whose favor the judgment was given); • the judgment was not obtained by actual or constructive fraud or duress; • the foreign court has taken jurisdiction on grounds that are recognized by the common law rules as to conflict of laws in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands; • the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained were not contrary to natural justice (i.e., the concept of fair adjudication); • the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained, the judgment itself and the enforcement of the judgment are not contrary to the public policy of Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands; • the person against whom the judgment is given is subject to the jurisdiction of the Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands court; and • the judgment is not on a claim for contribution in respect of damages awarded by a judgment, which does not satisfy the criteria stated previously. 21 Table of Contents Similarly, the courts of Macao are generally prepared to accept a foreign judgment as evidence of a debt due.An action may then be commenced in Macao for recovery of this debt. A Macao court will only accept a foreign judgment as evidence of a debt due if: • there is no doubt to the authenticity of the judgment documents and the understanding of the judgment; • pursuant to the law of the place of judgment, the judgment is final and conclusive; • the judgment was not obtained by fraud or the matter in relation to the judgment is not within the exclusive jurisdiction of Macao courts; • the judgment will not be challenged on the ground that the relevant matter has been adjudicated by the Macao court, except matters which have first been adjudicated by courts outside Macao; • pursuant to the law of the place of the judgment, the defendant has been summoned and the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained were not contrary to natural justice; and • the enforcement of the judgment will not cause any orders that may result in apparent public disorder. Enforcement of a foreign judgment in Hong Kong, the British Virgin Islands or Macao may also be limited or affected by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, arrangement and moratorium, or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors’ rights generally, and will be subject to a statutory limitation of time within which proceedings may be brought. Future issuances of preference shares could materially and adversely affect the holders of our common shares or delay or prevent a change of control. Our Board of Directors may amend our Memorandum and Articles of Association without shareholder approval to create from time to time, and issue, one or more classes of preference shares (which are analogous to preferred stock of corporations organized in the United States). While we have never issued any preference shares and we have none outstanding, we could issue preference shares in the future. Future issuance of preference shares could materially and adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common shares, or delay or prevent a change of control. Our status as a foreign private issuer in the United States exempts us from certain of the reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE limiting the protections and information afforded to investors. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States public companies including: • the rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K or annual reports on Form 10-K; • the sections of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; • the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; and • the sections of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction (i.e., a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). In addition, because the Company is a foreign private issuer, certain corporate governance standards of the NYSE that are applied to domestic companies listed on that exchange may not be applicable to us. For information regarding whether our corporate governance standards differ from those applied to US domestic issuers, see the discussion under “NYSE listed Company Manual Disclosure” in Item 6. Directors and Senior Management of this Report. 22 Table of Contents Because of these exemptions, investors are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States or traded on the NYSE. 