Risk Factors We may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements. Written forward-looking statements may appear in this document and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in press releases, in reports to shareholders, on our website, and other documents. The Private Securities Reform Act of 1995 contains a safe harbor for forward-looking statements on which the Company relies in making such disclosures. In connection with this “safe harbor”, we are hereby identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Any such statements are qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements: Risks Related to Our Business We are dependent on a few large customers, the loss of any of which could substantially harm our business and operating results. Historically, a substantial percentage of our sales have been to a small number of customers. During the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, sales to our customers accounting for 10% or more of our net sales aggregated approximately 46.7%, 47.9%, and 57.7%, respectively, of our net sales. The loss of Sanyo Epson Imaging Devices (HK) Limited (formerly known as Epson Precision (HK) Ltd.), Sharp Corporation or Wuxi Sharp Electronic Components Co., Ltd., each of which accounted for more than 10% of our net sales during 2005, or a substantial reduction in orders from any of them, would materially and adversely impact our business and operating results. 4 Table of Contents Our quarterly and annual operating results are subject to significant fluctuations due to a wide variety of factors. Our quarterly and annual operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results during any period. This could result from any one or a combination of factors, such as: • the timing, cancellation or postponement of orders; • the type of product and related margins; • our customers’ announcement and introduction of new products or new generations of products; • the life cycles of our customers’ products; • our timing of expenditures in anticipation of future orders; • our effectiveness in managing manufacturing processes, including, interruptions or slowdowns in production and changes in cost and availability of components; and • the mix of orders filled. The volume and timing of orders received during a quarter are difficult to forecast. From time to time, our customers encounter uncertain and changing demand for their products. Customers generally order based on their forecasts. If demand falls below such forecasts or if customers do not control inventories effectively, they may reduce, cancel or postpone shipments of orders. As a consequence of any of the above factors, our results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of results to be expected in any future period, and fluctuations in operating results may also result in fluctuations in the market price of our common shares. Our results of operations in future periods may fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors or projections provided by the Company. This failure to meet expectations could cause the trading price of our common shares to decline substantially. Cancellations or delays in orders could materially and adversely affect our gross margins and operating income. Sales to our original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, customers are primarily based on purchase orders we receive from time to time rather than firm, long-term purchase commitments. Although it is our general practice to purchase raw materials only upon receiving a purchase order, for certain customers we will occasionally purchase raw materials based on such customers’ rolling forecasts. Further, during times of potential component shortages, we have purchased, and may continue to purchase, raw materials and component parts in the expectation of receiving purchase orders for products that use these components. In the event actual purchase orders are delayed, are not received or are cancelled, we would experience increased inventory levels or possible write-down of raw material inventory that could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers and the life cycles of their products (and therefore ours) may be short, so our future revenues are difficult to predict. As our customers do not have long-term purchase commitments with us and our sales are made on individual purchase orders, our customers may cancel or defer purchase orders. In addition, the life cycles of our customers’ products (and therefore ours) may be insufficient to ensure that these increased costs can be offset. Our customers’ purchase orders may vary significantly from period to period, and it is difficult to forecast future order quantities. Further, we do not typically operate with any significant backlog in orders, and this makes it difficult for us to forecast our revenues, plan our production and allocate resources for future periods (including our capital expenditures). There can be no assurance that the volume of our customers’ orders will be consistent with prior periods or with our expectations. Accordingly, our results of operations may fluctuate significantly in the future. Such fluctuations may adversely affect our liquidity, profitability, results of operations and financial condition. Our business has been characterized by a rapidly changing mix of products and customers. Our business has been characterized by a rapidly changing mix of products and customers, driven in significant part by changes in demand for consumer electronics as well as technological innovation. We are engaged in the production of BluetoothTM wireless headsets, 5 Table of Contents printed circuit board assembly, or PCBA, for BluetoothTM headsets, radio frequency, or RF, modules, thin film transistor liquid crystal display, or TFT LCD, modules, color LCD modules and complementary metal oxide semiconductor, or CMOS, sensor modules, flexible printed circuit, or FPC, sub-assemblies and digital audio broadcast, or DAB, modules. We expect that a substantial portion of our growth will come from the manufacturing of these products. Certain products have become less economically significant to us over time, such as monochrome LCD modules for mobile phone headsets, which sales have dropped significantly in each of the past three years since 2002 as end use customers are increasingly choosing color LCD panels instead. We expect that our current mix of customers and products will continue to change rapidly, and we believe this to be relatively common in the electronics manufacturing services, or EMS, industry. If the products that we or our customers manufacture become obsolete or otherwise less profitable and we are not able to diversify our current product offerings or customer base in a timely manner, our business would be materially and adversely affected. There may not be a sufficient market for new products that our customers or we develop. Our customers may not develop new products in a timely and cost-effective manner, or the market for products they choose to develop may not grow or be sustained in line with their expectations. This would reduce the overall businesses they outsource, which would seriously affect our business and operating results. Even if we develop capabilities to manufacture new products, there can be no guarantee that a market exists or will develop for such products or that such products will adequately respond to market trends. If we invest resources to develop capabilities to manufacture new products, like the investment in our new factory, for which a market does not develop, our business and operating results would be seriously harmed. Even if the market for our services grows, it may not grow at an adequate pace. Our inability to utilize capacity at our new factory could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. In order to expand our production capacity, we have built a new factory consisting of approximately 265,000 square feet adjacent to our principal manufacturing facilities in Shenzhen, the People’s Republic of China, or China or the PRC. The construction was completed in December 2004 and we commenced full operations at the new manufacturing site in April 2005. As of December 31, 2005, we had incurred approximately $25.8 million to cover the cost of construction and fixtures and equipment for the new factory. The financing for these improvements to our manufacturing facilities was obtained from our internal resources. We have committed substantial expenditures and resources constructing and equipping this factory but cannot guarantee that we will be able to fully utilize such additional capacity. Our factory utilization is dependent on our success in providing manufacturing services for new or other products that we intend to produce at that factory, such as mobile phone accessories, CMOS sensor modules for cellular phones and entertainment devices at a price and volume sufficient to absorb our increased overhead expenses. Demand for contract manufacturing of these products may not be as high as we expect, and we may fail to realize the expected benefit from our investment in our new factory. We face increasing competition, which has had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our margins. Although certain barriers to entry exist in the EMS industry, including technical expertise, substantial capital requirements, difficulties relating to building customer relationships and a large customer base, the barriers to entry are comparatively low and we are aware that manufacturers in Hong Kong and China may be developing or have developed the required technical capability and customer base to compete with our existing business. Competition in the EMS industry is intense and is characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change, and competition from major international companies. This intense competition has resulted in pricing pressures, lower sales and reduced margins. Continuing competitive pressures could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Over the last several years our margins have declined substantially, from 12.8% in 2001 to approximately 11.7% in 2005. Continuing competitive pressures could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We may not be able to compete successfully with our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do. The EMS we provide are available from many independent sources as well as from our current and potential customers with in-house manufacturing capabilities. We believe our EMS competitors include Celestica, Inc., Flextronics International Ltd., Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd., Jabil Circuit, Inc., Sanmina-SCI Corporation and Solectron Corporation. We believe our principal competitors in the manufacturing of our traditional product lines of calculators, personal organizers and linguistic products include Kinpo Electronics, Inc. and Inventec Co. Ltd. We believe our competitors in the manufacturing of image capturing devices and their modules include Lite-On Technology Corporation, 6 Table of Contents The Primax Group and Logitech International S.A. We believe our principal competitors in the manufacturing of mobile phone accessories include Elcoteq Network Corp, Balda-Thong Fook Solutions Sdn. Bhd. and WKK International (Holdings) Ltd. We believe our competitors in the manufacturing of RF modules include Wavecom and WKK International (Holdings) Ltd. We believe our competitors in the manufacturing of LCD panels include Truly International Holdings Ltd., Elec & Eltek International Holdings Limited and Varitronix International Ltd. We believe we also have numerous competitors in the telecommunication, sub-assemblies and components product lines, including Philips, Samsung, Solectron and Varitronix International Ltd. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, manufacturing, regional shipping capabilities and logistics support and personnel resources than we do. As a result, we may be unable to compete successfully with these organizations in the future. We must spend substantial amounts to maintain and develop advanced manufacturing processes and engage additional engineering personnel in order to attract new customers and business. We operate in rapidly changing industries. Technological advances, the introduction of new products and new manufacturing and design techniques could materially and adversely affect our business unless we are able to adapt to those changing conditions. As a result, we are continually required to commit substantial funds for, and significant resources to, engaging additional engineering and other technical personnel and to purchase advanced design, production and test equipment. Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on our ability to continue to provide new manufacturing solutions that compare favorably on the basis of time to introduction, cost, and performance with the manufacturing capabilities of OEMs and competitive third-party suppliers. Our success in attracting new customers and developing new business depends on various factors, including: • utilization of advances in technology; • development of new or improved manufacturing processes for our customer’s products; • delivery of efficient and cost-effective services; and • timely completion of the manufacture of new products. We generally have no written agreements with suppliers to obtain components and our margins and operating results could suffer from increases in component prices. We are sometimes responsible for purchasing components used in manufacturing products for our customers. We do not have written agreements with some of our suppliers of components. This typically results in our bearing the risk of component price increases because we may be unable to procure the required materials at a price level necessary to generate anticipated margins from the orders of our customers. Accordingly, increases in component prices could materially and adversely affect our gross margins and operating results. Our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected if our suppliers of needed components fail to meet our needs. At various times, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience shortages of some of the electronic components that we use, and suppliers of some components lack sufficient capacity to meet the demand for these components. In some cases, supply shortages and delays in deliveries of particular components have resulted in curtailed production, or delays in production, of assemblies using that component, which contributed to an increase in our inventory levels and reduction in our gross margins. We expect that shortages and delays in deliveries of some components will continue. If we are unable to obtain sufficient components on a timely basis, we may experience manufacturing delays, which could harm our relationships with current or prospective customers and reduce our sales. We also depend on a small number of suppliers for certain of the components that we use in our business. For example, we purchase most of our integrated circuits from Cambridge Silicon Radio Plc, Toshiba Corporation and Sharp Corporation and certain of their affiliates. If we were to be unable to continue to purchase components from these limited source suppliers, our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents Factors affecting the electronics industry in general and our customers in particular could harm our operations. Most of our sales are to customers in the electronics industry, which is subject to rapid technological change, product obsolescence and short product life cycles. The factors affecting the electronics industry in general, or any of our major customers or competitors in particular, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our success will depend to a significant extent on the success achieved by our customers in developing and marketing their products, including their products that use RF modules, color straight-twisted nematic, or STN, LCD modules, TFT LCD modules, CMOS sensor modules, FPC sub-assemblies and DAB modules, some of which may be new and untested. If our customers’ products become obsolete, fail to gain widespread commercial acceptance or become the subject of intellectual property disputes, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. As we currently only operate one production facility for each of our subsidiaries, our business may be materially and adversely affected if the facility of any of our major subsidiaries were to be shut down. Our turnover has been substantially obtained from manufacturing completed at the production facilities of our subsidiaries, located in Baoan, Shenzhen. If any of the production facilities of our subsidiaries were to be shut down for any reason, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Future acquisitions or strategic investments may not be successful and may harm our operating results. An important element of our strategy is to review prospects for acquisition or strategic investments that would complement our existing companies and products, augment our market coverage and distribution ability or enhance our technological capabilities. Future acquisitions or strategic investments could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results because of: • possible charges to operating results for purchased technology, restructuring or impairment charges related to goodwill or amortization expenses associated with intangible assets; • potential increase in our expenses and working capital requirements and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; • difficulties in successfully integrating any acquired operations, technologies, customers products and businesses with our operations; • diversion of our capital and management’s attention to other business concerns; • risks of entering markets or geographic areas in which we have limited prior experience; or • potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations or inability to hire key employees necessary for expansion. For example, in September 2004, we made an impairment to write down our $10.0 million investment in Alpha Star Investments Ltd., or Alpha Star, to its fair value of approximately $3.0 million, based on a valuation report from an external valuation firm. During 2005, this affiliated company continued to be loss making. In August 2005, we disposed of our entire stake in Alpha Star to the majority shareholders of Alpha Star with sales proceeds of $6.5 million, resulting in an accumulated net realized loss of $3.5 million. In addition, we also disposed of our entire stake in TCL Communication Technology Holdings Limited, or TCL Communication, during the period from August 2005 to December 2005 for total sales proceeds of approximately of $11.0 million, which resulted in a net realized loss of $68.5 million as compared to the cost of investment of $79.5 million. Losses include $58.3 million impairment loss made in December 2004, $6.5 million impairment loss made in June 2005 and $3.5 million realized loss recorded in the second half of 2005. Our customers are dependent on shipping companies for delivery of our products and interruptions to shipping could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our customers rely on a variety of carriers for product transportation through various world ports. A work stoppage, strike or shutdown of one or more major ports or airports could result in shipping delays materially and adversely affecting our customers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Similarly, an increase in freight surcharges due to rising fuel costs or general price increases could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. 8 Table of Contents Because our operations are international, we are subject to significant worldwide political, economic, legal and other uncertainties. We are incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and have subsidiaries incorporated in the Cayman Islands, Hong Kong, Macao, Japan and China. We have administrative offices in Hong Kong and Macao. We manufacture all of our products in China. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 99.6% of the net book value of our total property, plant and equipment is located in China. We sell our products to customers in Hong Kong, North America, Europe, Japan, China and Southeast Asia. Our international operations may be subject to significant political and economic risks and legal uncertainties, including: • changes in economic and political conditions and in governmental policies; • changes in international and domestic customs regulations; • wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts; • changes in tariffs, trade restrictions, trade agreements and taxation; • difficulties in managing or overseeing foreign operations; and • limitations on the repatriation of funds because of foreign exchange controls. The occurrence or consequences of any of these factors may restrict our ability to operate in the affected region and decrease the profitability of our operations in that region. Our operating results could be negatively impacted by seasonality. Historically, our sales and operating results have been affected by seasonality. Sales of calculators, personal organizers and linguistic products are typically higher during the second and third quarters in anticipation of the start of the school year and the Christmas buying season. Similarly, our consumers’ orders for electronics products have historically been lower in the first quarter from both the closing of our factories in China for the Chinese New Year holidays and the general reduction in sales following the holiday season. These sales patterns may not be indicative of future sales performance. Our results could be adversely affected if we have to comply with new environmental regulations. Our operations create some environmentally sensitive waste that may increase in the future depending on the nature of our manufacturing operations. The general issue of the disposal of hazardous waste has received increasing attention from Chinese national and local governments and foreign governments and agencies and has been subject to increasing regulation. Currently, relevant Chinese environmental protection laws and regulations impose fines on discharge of waste materials and empower certain environmental authorities to close any facility which causes serious environmental problems. Although it has not been alleged that we have violated any current environmental regulations by China government officials, there is no assurance that the Chinese government will not amend its current environmental protection laws and regulations. Our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected if we were to increase expenditures to comply with environmental regulations affecting our operations. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the risks related to our operations and losses. We have not experienced any major accidents in the course of our operations which have caused significant property damage or personal injuries. However, there is no assurance that we will not experience major accidents in the future. Although we have purchased the necessary insurances, including a business interruption policy, a fidelity guarantee policy and policies covering losses or damages in respect of buildings’ machinery, equipment and inventories, the occurrence of certain incidents such as earthquake, war, pandemics, and flood, and the consequences resulting from them, may not be covered adequately, or at all, by the insurance policies under which we are protected. We also face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of our products is alleged to have resulted in property damage, bodily injury or other adverse effects. We only have product liability insurance for some of our products. Losses incurred or payments we may be required to make, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations if such losses or payments are not fully insured. 9 Table of Contents We are a defendant in putative class action lawsuits and this litigation could adversely affect our business regardless of the final outcome. On March 11, 2003, we were served with a complaint in an action captioned Michael Rocco v. Nam Tai, et al., 03 Civ. 1148 (S.D.N.Y.), or the Rocco Action. In addition to Nam Tai, certain directors are named as defendants. On or about April 9, 2003, a second complaint was filed in an action captioned A.J. & Celine Steigler v. Nam Tai, et al., 03 Civ. 2462 (S.D.N.Y.), or the Steigler Action, and together with the Rocco Action, the Actions. The Actions have been consolidated since July 2003 and purport to represent a putative class of persons who purchased the common stock of Nam Tai from July 29, 2002 through February 18, 2003. Plaintiffs in the Actions assert claims under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and allege that misrepresentations and/or omissions were made during the alleged class period concerning the partial reversal of an inventory provision and a charge to goodwill related to Nam Tai’s LPT segment. Our motion to dismiss the Actions was denied on September 27, 2004. On May 27, 2005, the plaintiffs moved to certify the Actions as a class action with an individual, Douglas Ward, as the named class representative. We filed our opposition to the motion on June 20, 2005. The court heard oral argument on the motion on July 26, 2005, and has not yet ruled on the motions. On October 7, 2005, the plaintiffs filed a Second Amended Consolidated Class Action Complaint which contained substantive allegations that did not vary from the previously filed Actions and added an additional individual, Michael Rocco, as a named class representative. After class representative discovery on February 10, 2006, plaintiffs filed their motion for class certification with Michael Rocco as an added class representative. Nam Tai filed its opposition papers on March 3, 2006. The motion is scheduled for oral argument on April 17, 2006. Nam Tai believes it has meritorious defenses and it intends to defend the case vigorously. Nam Tai is aware of no other actions that have been filed which relate to these matters. The ultimate outcome of this litigation cannot be presently determined. However, this litigation could be very costly and divert our management’s attention and resources. In addition, we have no insurance covering our liability, if any, or that of our officers and directors, for this lawsuit and we will have to pay the costs of the defense. Any adverse determination in this litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities, any or all of which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Please see Item 8. “Financial Information ¾ Legal Proceedings ¾ Putative Class Actions” for more information. We may be unable to succeed in recovering on our judgment debts against Tele-Art, Inc. We have two judgments in our favor against Tele-Art, Inc. awarded by The High Court of Justice in the British Virgin Islands for approximately $38.0 million (including interest, costs, and related expenses). Because Tele-Art, Inc. is in liquidation, we may not realize the entire amount of our judgments, and the actual amount of the recovery, if any, is uncertain and dependent on a number of factors. We may incur substantial additional costs in pursuing our recovery, and such costs may not be recoverable. Please see Item 8. “Financial Information ¾ Legal Proceedings ¾ Tele-Art Litigation” for more information. We could become involved in intellectual property disputes. We do not have any patents, licenses, or trademarks material to our business. Instead, we rely on trade secrets, industry expertise and our customers sharing of intellectual property with us. However, there can be no assurance that such intellectual property is not in violation of that belonging to other parties. We may be notified that we are infringing patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights owned by other parties. In the event of an infringement claim, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to develop a non-infringing alternative or to obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing such an alternative or obtaining a license on reasonable terms, if at all. Any litigation, even without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We depend on our executive officers and skilled management personnel. Our success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our executive officers. Generally, our employees are bound by employment or non-competition agreements. However, we cannot assure you that we will retain our executive officers and other key employees. We could be seriously harmed by the loss of any of our executive officers. In order to manage our growth, we will need to recruit and retain additional skilled management personnel and if we are not able to do so our business and our ability to continue to grow could be harmed. We maintain no key person insurance on these individuals. The loss of service of any of these officers or key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business growth and operating results. We may not pay dividends in the future. Although we have declared dividends during each of the last twelve years, we may not be able to declare them or may decide not to declare them in the future. Our China subsidiaries are required to reserve 11% of their profits for future development and staff welfare, which may 10 Table of Contents affect our ability to declare dividends. We will determine the amounts of the dividends when they are declared and even if dividends are declared in the future, we may not continue them in any future period. We are subject to the risk of increased taxes. We base our tax position upon the anticipated nature and conduct of our business and upon our understanding of the tax laws of the various countries in which we have assets or conduct activities. Our tax position, however, is subject to review and possible challenge by taxing authorities and to possible changes in law. We cannot determine in advance the extent to which some jurisdictions may assess additional tax or interest and penalties on such additional taxes. Several places in which we are located allow for tax holidays or provide other tax incentive to attract and retain business. We have obtained holidays or other incentives where available. Our taxes could increase if certain tax holidays or incentives are retracted, or if they are not renewed upon expiration, or tax rates applicable to us in such jurisdictions are otherwise increased. Recently enacted changes in the securities laws and regulations are likely to increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that became law in July 2002 has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. In response to the requirements of that act, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, have promulgated new rules on a variety of subjects. Compliance with these new rules as well as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has increased our legal, financial and accounting costs, and we expect these increased costs to continue indefinitely, particularly as new rules and regulations, including Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, come into effect. We also expect these developments to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors or qualified executive officers. Risks Related to Our Operations in China, Hong Kong, Macao and Japan Our manufacturing facilities are located in China and several of our customers and suppliers are located in Hong Kong and China. Our subsidiaries are located in China, Hong Kong, Macao and Japan. As a result, our operations and assets are subject to significant political, economic, legal and other uncertainties associated with doing business in China, Hong Kong, Macao and Japan, which are discussed in more detail below. We are exposed to risks associated with doing business in China. Our principal manufacturing operations are located in Shenzhen, China. These operations could be severely impacted by evolving interpretation and enforcement of legal standards, by strains on Chinese energy, transportation, communications, trade and other infrastructures, by conflicts, embargoes, increased tensions or escalation of hostilities between China and Taiwan, and by other trade customs and practices that are dissimilar to those in the United States and Europe. Interpretation and enforcement of China’s laws and regulations continue to evolve and we expect differences in interpretation and enforcement to continue in the foreseeable future. Further, we may be exposed to fluctuations in the value of the renminbi yuan, or RMB, the local currency of China. Under international pressure, the Chinese government in July 2005 allowed the RMB to appreciate and our operating cost has increased accordingly. Should the Chinese government allow a further and significant RMB appreciation, our operating costs could further increase and could adversely affect our financial results. Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the Chinese government to regulate its economy and toward, or even nationalize, private enterprise, may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our production facilities are located in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in respect of various areas such as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, China’s economy was a planned economy. Subsequently, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of China’s economy, including the encouragement of private economic activities and decentralization of economic regulation with a move towards a market economy. However, the Chinese government still retains a large role in industrial output (which is majority state-owned), the allocation of resources, production, pricing and management, and there can be no assurance that the Chinese government will continue to pursue a 11 Table of Contents policy of economic reform and they may significantly alter them to our detriment from time to time without notice. Furthermore, we may not in all cases be able to capitalize on the economic reform measures adopted by the Chinese government. Our operations and financial results could be adversely affected by changes in political, economic and social conditions or the relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws and regulations (or the interpretations thereof), measures which might be introduced to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and the imposition of additional import restrictions. The nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises by the Chinese government could result in the total loss of our investment in China. Furthermore, a significant portion of economic activities in China are export-driven at present and, therefore, are affected by development in the economies of the China’s principal trading partners and other export-driven economies. The Chinese legal system has inherent uncertainties that could materially and adversely impact our ability to enforce the agreements governing our factories and to do business. We do not own, on a freehold basis, the land on which our factories in China are located, but instead, on a leasehold basis. We occupy our principal manufacturing facilities under land use agreements with agencies of the Chinese government and we occupy other facilities under lease agreements with the relevant lessor. The performance of these agreements and the operations of our factories are dependent on our relationship with the local government. Our operations and prospects would be materially and adversely affected by the failure of the local government to honor these agreements or an adverse change in the law governing them. In the event of a dispute, enforcement of these agreements could be difficult in China. Unlike the United States, China has a civil law system based on written statutes in which judicial decisions have limited precedential value. The Chinese government has enacted laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, its experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited, and our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes in China is unpredictable. These matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the Chinese government, and forces and factors unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. Fire, severe weather, flood or earthquake could cause significant damage to our facilities in China and disrupt our business operations. Our products are manufactured exclusively at our factories located in China. Fire fighting and disaster relief or assistance in China is not well developed. Material damage to, or the loss of, our factories due to fire, severe weather, flood, earthquake or other acts of God or cause may not be adequately covered by proceeds of our insurance coverage and could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, any interruptions to our business caused by such disasters could harm our business and operating results. Controversies affecting China’s trade with the United States could harm our results of operations or depress our stock price. While China has been granted permanent most favored nation trade status in the United States through its entry into the World Trade Organization, controversies between the United States and China may arise that threaten the status quo involving trade between the United States and China. These controversies could materially and adversely affect our business by, among other things, causing our products in the United States to become more expensive resulting in a reduction in the demand for our products by customers in the United States. Political or trade friction between the United States and China, whether or not actually affecting our business, could also materially and adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares. A deterioration of relations between China and Japan may harm our business. While our production base is located in China, we derive a substantial amount of our sales from Japanese customers. With respect to our major customers accounting for 10% or more of our net sales, our Japanese customers represented approximately 46.7%, 37.7% and 57.7% of our net sales for each of the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Our business is therefore vulnerable to any deterioration of relations or disruption of trade between China and Japan. Beginning in the spring of 2005, relations between China and Japan grew increasingly strained. This culminated in a week of anti-Japan protests throughout China which included attacks on Japanese citizens and property and a boycott on Japanese imports. Should this situation continue or worsen, our Japanese customers may be less willing or otherwise less able to purchase our products. More broadly, companies based in Japan may become reluctant to outsource manufacturing to us and other EMS providers based in China. This could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. There can also be no assurance that our operations in China will not be targeted 12 Table of Contents by anti-Japan protestors or boycotts due to the presence of our Japanese managers and employees and our relationships with Japanese customers. Any harm caused to our facilities or personnel, or any boycott targeting us, could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Payment of dividends by our subsidiaries in China to us are subject to restrictions under Chinese law. Under Chinese law, dividends may be paid only out of distributable profits. Distributable profits with respect to our subsidiaries in China refers to after-tax profits as determined in accordance with accounting principles and financial regulations applicable to Chinese enterprises, or China GAAP, less any recovery of accumulated losses and allocations to statutory funds that it is required to make. Any distributable profits that are not distributed in a given year are retained and available for distribution in subsequent years. The calculation of distributable profits under China GAAP differs in many respects from the calculation under U.S. GAAP. As a result, our subsidiaries in China may not be able to pay any dividend in a given year as determined under U.S. GAAP. Accordingly, since we derive a majority of our profits from our subsidiaries in China, we may not have sufficient distributable profits to pay dividends to our shareholders. Changes to Chinese tax laws and heightened efforts by the Chinese tax authorities to increase revenues could subject us to greater taxes. Under applicable Chinese law, we have been afforded a number of tax concessions by, and tax refunds from, the Chinese tax authorities on a substantial portion of our operations in China by reinvesting all or part of the profits attributable to our Chinese manufacturing operations. However, the Chinese tax system is subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to its interpretation and enforcement. Following the Chinese government’s program of privatizing many state-owned enterprises, the Chinese government has attempted to augment its revenues through heightened tax collection efforts. Continued efforts by the Chinese government to increase tax revenues could result in decisions or interpretations of the tax laws by the Chinese tax authorities that would increase our future tax liabilities or deny us expected concessions or refunds. For example, the tax reform of reducing the VAT tax refund from 17% to 13%, with effect from January 1, 2004, has adversely affected our margins. Our results could be affected by changes in foreign exchange regulations of China. Some of our earnings are denominated in RMB. The People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, regulate the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies. Under the current unified floating exchange rate system, the PBOC publishes a daily exchange rate for RMB based on the previous day’s dealings in the inter-bank foreign exchange market. Financial institutions may enter into foreign exchange transactions at exchange rates within an authorized range above or below the PBOC exchange rate according to the market conditions. Since 1996, a number of rules, regulations and notices regarding foreign exchange control have been issued by the Chinese government which are designed to provide for greater convertibility of RMB. Under such regulations, any foreign investment enterprise, or FIE, must establish a “current account” and a “capital account” with a bank authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Currently, FIEs are able to exchange RMB into foreign exchange currencies at designated foreign exchange banks for settlement of current account transactions, which include payment of dividends on the basis of the board resolutions authorizing the distribution of profits or dividends of the company concerned, without the approval of SAFE. Conversion of RMB into foreign currencies for capital account transactions, which include the receipt and payment of foreign exchange for loans, capital contributions and the purchase of fixed assets, continues to be subject to limitations and requires the approval of SAFE. Our subsidiaries in China are all FIEs and under the relevant laws of China to which such regulations apply. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient foreign exchange to make relevant payments or satisfy other foreign exchange requirements in the future. Our results have been affected by changes in currency exchange rates. Changes in currency rates involving the Japanese yen, Hong Kong dollar or Chinese renminbi could increase our expenses. Our financial results have been affected by currency fluctuations, resulting in total foreign exchange gains of approximately $2.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, total foreign exchange gains of $189,000 during the year ended December 31, 2004 and total foreign exchange losses of $62,000 during the year ended December 31, 2003. We sell most of our products in United States dollars and pay our expenses in United States dollars, Japanese yen, Hong Kong dollars, and RMB. While we face a variety of risks associated with changes among the relative value of these currencies, we believe the most significant exchange risk presently results from material purchases we make in Japanese yen and RMB. Approximately 16%, 6% and 3% of our material costs have been in Japanese yen during the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively, but sales made in Japanese yen only accounted for 11%, 4% and 2%, respectively, of our sales for each of the last three years. Approximately 4%, 4% and 3%, respectively, of our material costs have been in RMB during the years 13 Table of Contents ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. However, sales in RMB accounted for 0%, 8% and 3%, respectively, of our sales for each of the last three years. An appreciation of the Japanese yen or RMB against United States dollars would increase our costs when translated into United States dollars and would materially and adversely affect our margins unless we made sufficient sales in Japanese yen to offset against material purchases made in the corresponding currency. Approximately 3% and 4% of our revenues and 10% and 9% of our total costs and expenses were in RMB and Hong Kong dollars, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2005. An appreciation of the RMB or Hong Kong dollars against United States dollars would increase our expenses when translated into United States dollars and could materially and adversely affect our margins. In addition, a significant devaluation in the RMB or Hong Kong dollars could harm our business if it destabilizes the economy of China or Hong Kong, creates serious domestic problems or increases our borrowing costs. We have suffered losses from hedging against our currency exchange risk. From time to time, we have attempted to hedge our currency exchange risk. We did not engage in currency hedging transactions for fiscal year 2003, 2004 and 2005. We have experienced in the past and may experience in the future losses as a result of currency hedging. Political and economic instability in Hong Kong could harm our operations. Some of our subsidiaries’ offices and several of our customers and suppliers are located in Hong Kong, formerly a British Crown Colony. Sovereignty over Hong Kong was resumed by China effective July 1, 1997. Since then, Hong Kong has become a Special Administrative Region of China, enjoying a high degree of autonomy except for foreign and defense affairs. Moreover, China’s political system and policies are not practiced in Hong Kong. Under the principle of “one country, two systems”, Hong Kong maintains a legal system that is based on the common law and is different from that of China. It is generally acknowledged as an open question whether Hong Kong’s future prosperity in its role as a hub and gateway to China after China’s accession to the World Trade Organization (introducing a market liberalization in China) will be diminished. The continued stability of political, economic or commercial conditions in Hong Kong remains uncertain, and any instability could materially and adversely impact our business and operating results. Power shortages in China could affect our business. We consume substantial amounts of electricity in our manufacturing processes at our production facilities in China. Certain parts of China have been subject to power shortages in recent years. We have experienced a number of power shortages at our production facilities in China to date. We are sometimes given advance notice of power shortages and in relation to this we currently have a backup power system. However, there can be no assurance that in the future our backup power system will be completely effective in the event of a power shortage, particularly if that power shortage is over a sustained period of time and/or we are not given advance notice thereof. Any power shortage, brownout or blackout for a significant period of time may disrupt our manufacturing, and as a result, may have an adverse impact on our business. The spread of severe acute respiratory syndrome, avian influenza or similar illnesses may have a negative impact on our business and operating results. In March 2003, several economies in Asia, including Hong Kong and southern China, where our operations are located, were affected by the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. If there is a recurrence of a serious outbreak of SARS, it may adversely affect our business and operating results. For example, the future SARS outbreak could result in quarantines or closures to some of our factories if our employees are infected with SARS and ongoing concerns regarding SARS, particularly its effect on travel, could negatively impact our China-based customers and suppliers and our business and operating results. In addition, there has recently been an outbreak of avian influenza in humans and has proven to be fatal in Asian countries, including China, Cambodia, Indonesia, Thailand, and Vietnam. Since then, avian influenza has spread to other parts of the world, including Europe, Africa and the Middle East. As the human death toll continues to grow, many are concerned that the virus will mutate and trigger a human pandemic. If such an outbreak were to spread to southern China, where our operation facilities are located, it may adversely affect our business operating results. 14 Table of Contents We conduct operations in a number of countries and the effect of business, legal and political risks associated with international operations could significantly harm us. We conduct operations in number of countries. There are risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: • Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • Compliance with laws and regulations, including environmental laws, which vary from country to country and over time, increasing the costs of compliance and potential risks of non-compliance; • Exposure to political and financial instability, leading to currency exchange losses, collection difficulties or other losses; • Exposure to fluctuations in the value of local currencies; • Changes in value-added tax or VAT reimbursement; • Imposition of currency exchange controls; and • Delays from customs brokers or government agencies. Any of these risks could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Our Industry We are exposed to general economic conditions. Any slowdown in the technology products industry may affect our business and operating results adversely. As a result of the economic downturn in the United States and internationally, and reduced capital spending, sales to OEMs in the electronics industry declined beginning in the second quarter of fiscal year 2001 and continuing through 2002. Lower consumer demand and high customer inventory levels have resulted in the delay and cancellation of orders for nearly all types of electronic products. As a result of order cancellations in 2001, we were required to write down slow-moving inventory, which materially and adversely impacted our net income in 2001. Although the industry experienced a recovery since 2003, we cannot assure you that this recovery is sustainable or that the industry will not further decline. If the economic conditions in the United States or the other markets we serve worsen, particularly in the electronics and contract manufacturing businesses particularly, or if a wider or global economic slowdown occurs, this could materially and adversely impact our business and operating results. Our business and operating results are dependent on growing global outsourcing trends. Over the last two decades, the EMS industry experienced rapid change and growth as the capabilities of EMS companies continued to expand and consumer electronic product manufacturers adopted, and became increasingly reliant on, manufacturing outsourcing strategies to remain competitive. Despite the slow down of the EMS industry in 2001 and 2002 as a result of consumer electronic product manufacturers’ decreasing production requirement, growth has been renewed since 2003 and we believe that the EMS industry has the potential for further growth as many consumer electronic product manufacturers continue to favor outsourcing over internal manufacturing, and the market for outsourcing, as a whole, continues to flourish. However, there can be no assurance that the trends of adopting manufacturing outsourcing strategies by consumer electronic product manufacturers will continue to grow. If the growing outsourcing trends discontinue, this could materially and adversely impact our business and operating results. Actual or perceived health risks associated with the use of mobile phone handsets or other communications equipment could negatively affect our business. There have been public concerns about health risks arising from electromagnetic fields generated by mobile phone handsets. Any perceived risks or new findings, regardless or their scientific basis, concerning the potential adverse health effects of communications equipment could negatively affect our reputation and brand value, or that of our direct or indirect customers, and could result in a reduction in sales. We cannot assure you that we will not become the subject of product liability claims or be held liable for such claims or be required to comply with future regulatory changes that may have an adverse effect on our business. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Shares The market price of our shares will likely be subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations. The markets for equity securities have been volatile and the price of our common shares has been and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to variations in operating results, news announcements, trading volume, sales of common shares by our officers, directors and our principal shareholders, customers, suppliers or other publicly traded companies, general market trends both domestically and internationally, currency movements and interest rate fluctuations. Certain events, such as the issuance of common shares upon the exercise of our outstanding stock options could also materially and adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares. Further, the stock markets have recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies and that have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common shares. The concentration of share ownership in our senior management allows them to control or substantially influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. On March 1, 2006, members of our senior management and Board of Directors as a group beneficially owned approximately 29.1% of our common shares. As a result, acting together, they may be able to control and substantially influence the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This ability may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Nam Tai, or causing a change in control of Nam Tai that may not be favored by our other shareholders. If we do not receive an unqualified opinion on the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 and future year-ends as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our shares. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal control structure and procedures over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 20-F that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control structure and procedures over financial reporting. In addition, the public accounting firm auditing the company’s financial statements must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control structure and procedures over financial reporting. While we intend to conduct a rigorous review of our internal control structure and procedures over financial reporting in order to assure compliance with Section 404 requirements, if our independent public accountants interpret Section 404 requirements and the related rules and regulations differently from us or if our independent public accountants are not satisfied with our internal control structure and procedures over financial reporting or with the level at which it is documented, operated or reviewed, they may decline to attest to management’s assessment or issue a qualified report. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations and could result in a decrease in the value of our shares. The Financial Accounting Standards Board published amendments to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised) in December 2004 with effect from the beginning of the first interim or annual reporting period that begins after June 15, 2005. Upon adoption, the Company is required to, among other things, recognize compensation costs for share-based awards to employees after December 31, 2005 based on their grant-date fair value, in which the recognition provisions are first applied, as well as compensation costs for awards that were granted prior to, but not vested as, of the date of adoption, or restate prior periods by recognizing compensation cost in the amounts previously reported in the pro forma footnote disclosure under SFAS No. 123. For a detailed discussion of application methods, see Note 2(u) – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies – Recent changes in accounting standards”. Although our current practice is only to grant 15,000 stock options to each non-employee director with an exercise price equal to the fair market value of our common share upon their election in each annual shareholders’ meeting, if we were to grant a large amount share-based compensation awards to our employee in future, our results or operations could be adversely affected. For discussion of our employee stock option and employee stock purchase plans, see Note 2(p) – “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies – Stock Options” and Note 12 – “Shareholders’ Equity” to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, “Accounting Changes And Error Corrections”. This statement supercedes APB Opinion No. 20, “Accounting changes” and SFAS No. 3, “Reporting Accounting changes in Interim Financial Statements”. SFAS No. 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods’ financial statements of changes in accounting principles, unless it is impracticable to determine the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. APB Opinion No. 20 “Accounting Changes,” previously required that most voluntary changes in accounting principle be recognized by including in net income of the period of the change the cumulative effect of changing to the new accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 will be effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Foreign Private Issuer Status It may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against our management or us. We are a British Virgin Islands holding corporation with subsidiaries in Hong Kong, Macao, Japan and China. We have appointed Stephen Seung, 2 Mott Street, Suite 601, New York, New York 10013 as our agent upon whom process may be served in any action brought against us under the securities laws of the United States. However, outside the United States, it may be difficult for investors to enforce judgments against us obtained in the United States in any of these actions, including actions based upon civil liability provisions of the Federal securities laws. In addition, all of our officers and most of our directors reside outside the United States, and all of our assets, and the assets of those persons who reside outside of the United States, are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon those persons, or to enforce against those persons or use judgments obtained in United States courts grounded upon the liability provisions of the United States securities laws. There is substantial doubt as to the enforceability against us or any of our directors and officers located outside of the United States in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts of liabilities based solely on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. No treaty exists between Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands and the United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. However, the courts of Hong Kong and the British Virgin Islands are generally prepared to accept a foreign judgment as evidence of a debt due. An action may then be commenced in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands for recovery of this debt. A Hong Kong or British Virgin Islands court will only accept a foreign judgment as evidence of a debt due if: • the judgment is for a liquidated amount in a civil matter; • the judgment is final and conclusive and has not been stayed or satisfied in full; • the judgment is not, directly or indirectly, for the payment of foreign taxes, penalties, fines or charges of a like nature (in this regard, a Hong Kong or British Virgin Islands court is unlikely to accept a judgment for an amount obtained by doubling, trebling or otherwise multiplying a sum assessed as compensation for the loss or damage sustained by the person in whose favor the judgment was given); • the judgment was not obtained by actual or constructive fraud or duress; • the foreign court has taken jurisdiction on grounds that are recognized by the common law rules as to conflict of laws in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands; • the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained were not contrary to natural justice (i.e., the concept of fair adjudication); • the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained, the judgment itself and the enforcement of the judgment are not contrary to the public policy of Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands; • the person against whom the judgment is given is subject to the jurisdiction of the Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands court; and • the judgment is not on a claim for contribution in respect of damages awarded by a judgment, which does not satisfy the criteria stated previously. Enforcement of a foreign judgment in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands may also be limited or affected by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, arrangement and moratorium, or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors’ rights generally, and will be subject to a statutory limitation of time within which proceedings may be brought. No treaty exists between Macao and the United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. However, the courts of Macao are generally prepared to accept a foreign judgment as evidence of a debt due. An action may then be commenced in Macao for recovery of this debt. A Macao court will only accept a foreign judgment as evidence of a debt due if: • there is no doubt to the authenticity of the judgment documents and the understanding of the judgment; 17 Table of Contents • pursuant to the law of the place of judgment, the judgment is final and conclusive; • the judgment was not obtained by fraud or the matter in relation to the judgment is not within the exclusive jurisdiction of Macao courts; • the judgment will not be challenged on the ground that the relevant matter has been adjudicated by the Macao court, except matters which have first been adjudicated by courts outside Macao; • pursuant to the law of the place of the judgment, the defendant has been summoned and the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained were not contrary to natural justice; and • the enforcement of the judgment will not cause any orders that may result in apparent public disorder. Enforcement of a foreign judgment in Macao may also be limited or affected by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, arrangement and moratorium, or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors’ rights generally, and will be subject to a statutory limitation of time within which proceedings may be brought. Future issuances of preference shares could materially and adversely affect the holders of our common shares or delay or prevent a change of control. Our Board of Directors may amend our Memorandum and Articles of Association without shareholder approval to create from time to time and issue one or more classes of preference shares (which are analogous to preferred stock of corporations organized in the United States). While currently no preference shares are issued or outstanding, we may issue preference shares in the future. Future issuance of preference shares could materially and adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common shares, or delay or prevent a change of control. Our status as a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain of the reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and corporate governance standards of the NYSE, limiting the protections and information afforded to investors. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States public companies including: • the rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K or annual reports on Form 10-K; • the sections of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; • the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; and • the sections of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction (i.e., a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). In addition, because the Company is a foreign private issuer, certain corporate governance standards of the NYSE that are applied to domestic companies listed on that exchange may not be applicable to us. Because of these exemptions, investors are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States or traded on the NYSE. 