Risk Factors We may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements. Written forward-looking statements may appear in this document and other documents filed with the SEC, in press releases, in reports to shareholders, on our website, and other documents. The Private Securities Reform Act of 1995 contains a safe harbor for forward-looking statements on which the Company relies in making such disclosures. In connection with this “safe harbor”, we are hereby identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Any such statements are qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements. We are dependent on a few large customers, the loss of any of which could substantially harm our business and operating results. Historically, a substantial percentage of our sales have been made to a small number of customers. During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, sales to customers who account for 10% or more of our net sales totaled approximately 63.3%, 71.0% and 84.0% of our net sales, respectively. During these same years, sales to our largest 10 customers accounted for 86.2%, 88.4% and 93.0% of our net sales, respectively. We currently depend, and expect to continue to depend, on a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our net revenue. If our customers, particularly our major customers, experience a decline in the demand for their products as a result of the prevailing economic environment or other factors, the electronic manufacturing services, or EMS, that we provide to these customers could be curtailed or possibly even terminated. The loss of any one of our major customers or a substantial reduction in orders from any of them could adversely impact our sales and decrease our net income or cause us to incur losses unless and until we were able to replace the customer or order with one or more of comparable size. In addition, we generate significant account receivables in connection with the EMS that we provide to our customers. If one or more of our customers became insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay for these services on a timely basis, or at all, our operating results and financial position could be adversely affected. Such adverse effects could include any one or more of the following: a further decline in revenue or net income, a charge for bad debts, a charge for inventory write-offs, a decrease in inventory turns, an increase in days in inventory and an increase in days in accounts receivable. Consolidation in industries that utilize or manufacture electronics components may adversely affect our business. Consolidation in industries that utilize electronic components may continue to increase as companies combine to achieve further economies of scale and other synergies. Further consolidation could result in an increase in excess manufacturing capacity as companies seek to divest manufacturing operations or eliminate duplicative product lines. Excess manufacturing capacity may decrease pricing and increase competitive pressures for our industry as a whole and for us in particular. Consolidation could also result in an increasing number of very large companies offering products in multiple industries. If one of our customers is acquired by another company that does not rely on us to provide services and has its own production facilities or relies on another provider of similar services, we may lose that customer’s business. Such consolidation among our customers may further reduce the number of customers that generate a significant percentage of our net revenue and exposes us to increased risks relating to our reliance on a small number of customers. Any of the foregoing results of industry consolidation could adversely affect our business. In addition, consolidation in our industry would result in larger and more geographically diverse competitors that have significantly larger combined resources, which may allow them to devote significantly greater resources to the expansion of the EMS that they offer and the marketing of their existing services to their larger installed customer bases or to new customers attracted to a larger global manufacturing organization. 6 Table of Contents Continuing economic uncertainty may adversely affect our earnings, liquidity and financial position. The business environment in the electronics industry depends significantly on worldwide economic conditions. In particular, there has been an erosion of global consumer confidence from concerns over declining asset values, price instability, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses, and sovereign nations. These concerns slowed global economic growth and resulted in recessions in many countries, including in the U.S., Europe and certain countries in Asia. The global economic downturn negatively impacted our operating results beginning in the second half of 2008 through the first quarter ended March 31, 2010. Even though there were signs that an overall economic recovery was beginning in the second quarter of 2010 and throughout 2011, such recovery continues to be uncertain. Recessionary conditions may return. If any of these potential negative economic conditions occur, a number of negative effects on our business could result and adversely affect: • the demand for our customers’ products; • the amount, timing and stability of their orders; • the financial strength of our customers and suppliers; • our customers’ and suppliers’ ability or willingness to do business with us; • our willingness to do business with our current customers and suppliers; • our suppliers’ and customers’ ability to fulfill their obligations to us; • our customers’, our suppliers’ or our ability to obtain credit, secure funds or raise capital; and • the prices at which we can sell our products and services. Any of these effects could impact our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables, increase our need for cash, or decrease our net revenue and profitability. As a result, continuing economic uncertainty may adversely affect our earnings, liquidity and financial position and no assurance can be given that we will not be impacted by changes in the economic environment or perceived changes in the economic environment. Our quarterly and annual operating results are subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a wide variety of factors. Substantially all of our sales are made on purchase order bases, and we are not always able to predict with certainty the timing or magnitude of these orders, especially during the current global economic downturn. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to receive orders from any of our customers. Our net sales will be harmed if we are unable to obtain a sufficient number of orders from, perform a sufficient number of EMS for, or ship a sufficient number of products to our customers in each quarter. In addition, our customers may cancel, change or delay product purchase orders with little or no advance notice to us. Also, we believe customers may be increasing the number of vendors upon which they rely for manufacturing. Our quarterly and annual operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results during any period. This could result from any one or a combination of factors, such as: • the timing, cancellation or deferral of orders; • adverse changes in global economic conditions, particularly those affecting the electronics industry; • the level of capacity utilization of our manufacturing facilities and associated fixed costs; • the composition of the costs of revenue between materials, labor and manufacturing overhead; • changes in demand for our products or services; • changes in demand in our customers’ end markets, which affect the type of product and related margins; • our customers’ announcement and introduction of new products or new generations of products; • the efficiencies we achieve in managing inventories and fixed assets; • the degree to which we are able to utilize our available manufacturing capacity; • long national seasonal breaks in the PRC, such as the Chinese New Year holidays in our first quarter and the National Day Golden week in our fourth quarter, during which our ability to manufacture products, obtain components and materials from suppliers and receive and process orders from customers are adversely affected; • fluctuations in the cost of materials and the availability of materials; • the life cycles of our customers’ products; 7 Table of Contents • variability in our manufacturing yields; • long lead times and advance financial commitments for our factories, equipment expenditures and components required to complete anticipated customer orders; • our effectiveness in managing our manufacturing processes, including, interruptions or slowdowns in production and changes in cost and availability of components; • changes in the specific products or quantities our customers order; • extended payment terms demanded by our major customers which, for competitive reasons, we choose to accommodate and result in longer periods for us to receive payment and increase our accounts receivable; • customer insolvencies resulting in bad debt or inventory exposures that are in excess of our reserves; • charges to our operating results because of impairments to the values of long-lived assets or goodwill carried on our balance sheet; and • price reductions caused by competitive pressure. The volume and timing of orders received during a quarter have been, even in normal economic climates, difficult to forecast and fluctuate as a consequence of variation in demand for our customers’ products; our customers’ attempts to manage their inventory; electronic design changes; changes in our customers’ manufacturing strategies; and acquisitions of or consolidations among our customers. Customers generally order based on their forecasts. Further, we do not typically operate with any significant backlog in orders, and this makes it difficult for us to forecast our revenues, plan our production and allocate resources for future periods (including for our capital expenditures). If demand falls below such forecasts or if customers do not control inventories effectively, they may reduce, cancel or postpone shipments of orders. Because of any of the above factors, our operating results in any period should not be considered indicative of results to be expected in any future period, and fluctuations in operating results may also result in fluctuations in the market price of our common shares. Our operating results in future periods may fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. This failure to meet expectations could cause the trading price of our common shares to decline. We face increasing competition, which has had and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our gross margins. Certain barriers to entry exist in the EMS industry such as technical expertise, substantial capital requirements, and establishing and maintaining valuable customer relationships and a large and loyal customer base. However, these barriers to entry are relatively low. We are aware that manufacturers in Hong Kong and China may be developing or have developed the required technical capability and customer base to compete with our existing business. Competition in the EMS industry is intense, characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change and competition from major international companies. This intense competition has resulted in pricing pressures and a lower gross margin percentage in certain years. Our gross margin percentages during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 are shown in the chart below. 8 Table of Contents During 2011, our gross profit margin dropped from 9.6% to 4.7% as compared with 2010. In 2011, we were still burdened with launch costs for new projects in our facility in Wuxi which reduced our overall gross profit margin by 2.0%. Additional launch costs for new projects could impact our overall gross profit margin in the future. Wages and allowance increased by 48%, which reduced our overall gross profit margin by 1.6%. Additionally, in the future, we may not be able to improve on, or even maintain, our gross margin percentage at the 2011 level. If, as a result of competitive forces, we are compelled to lower our unit prices and are unable to otherwise offset the recent trend of decreases in our gross margin percentage, our financial position may be harmed and our stock price may fall. We may not be able to compete successfully with our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do. We will face intense competition when we begin large-scale production of flexible printed circuit, or FPC, boards and FPC subassemblies. The EMS we provide are available from many independent sources as well as from our current and potential customers with in-house manufacturing capabilities. The following table identifies those companies, which we believe are our principal competitors (listed alphabetically) by category of products or services we provide: Product/Service Competitor EMS • Celestica, Inc. • Flextronics International Ltd. • Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd. • Jabil Circuit, Inc. • Sanmina-SCI Corporation Image capturing devices and their modules • Altus Technology Inc. (controlled by Foxconn) • Lite-on Technology Corporation • Logitech International S.A. • The Primax Group Mobile phone accessories • Balda-Thong Fook Solutions Sdn., Bhd. • Celestica, Inc. • Elcoteq Network Corporation • Flextronics International Ltd. • Foster Corporation • Foxlink Group • Merry Electronics Co., Ltd. • WKK International (Holdings) Ltd. Liquid crystal display, or LCD panels • Tianma Microelectronics Co., Ltd. • Truly International Holdings Ltd. • Varitronix International Ltd. • Yeebo (International) Holdings Ltd. Telecommunication subassemblies and components • Flextronics International Ltd. • LG. Philips LCD Co., Ltd. • Samsung Electronics • Varitronix International Ltd. Consumer electronic products (calculators, personal organizers and linguistic products) • Computime Limited • Inventec Co., Ltd. • Kinpo Electronics, Inc. • VTech Holdings Limited FPC boards/FPC subassemblies • Ichia Technologies Inc. • Nitto Denko (HK) Ltd. • NOK Corporation • Sumitomo Chemical Co., Ltd. • Fujikura Ltd. 9 Table of Contents Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, manufacturing, regional shipping capabilities, logistics support and personnel resources than we do. Consolidation among our competitors could result in even larger competitors emerging. As a result, we may be unable to compete successfully with these organizations in the future. In addition to intense competition from large FPC board manufacturers located in Taiwan, China, Korea, Singapore, North America, Japan and Europe, we also face such competition from large, established EMS providers that have acquired or, like we have, developed their own FPC manufacturing capabilities, and have extensive experience in electronics assembly. Furthermore, many companies in our target customer base are moving the design and manufacturing of their products to original engineering manufacturers, or OEMs, in Asia. OEMs could create pressure on us to provide discounts or lower prices to gain or maintain market share, which could adversely affect our margins and the profitability of our FPC business and our operating results as a whole. In addition, if we are unable to capture significant original design manufacturers (“ODMs”) as customers, we may be unable to sustain or grow our FPC business. Cancellations or delays in orders could materially and adversely affect our gross margins and operating results. Our sales to OEMs are primarily based on purchase orders that we receive from time to time rather than firm, long-term purchase commitments. Although it is our general practice to purchase raw materials only upon receiving a purchase order, for certain customers we will occasionally purchase raw materials based on such customers’ rolling forecasts. Further, during times of potential component shortages, we have purchased, and may continue to purchase, raw materials and component parts expecting that we will receive purchase orders for products that use these components. In the event actual purchase orders are delayed, are not received or are cancelled and we declined any other potential orders that may arise, we would experience increased inventory levels or possible write-offs of obsolete inventory, write-downs of raw materials inventory or the underutilization of our manufacturing capacity. Our customers face numerous competitive challenges, such as rapid technological changes and short life cycles for their products, which may materially adversely affect both their business and ours. Factors affecting the industries that utilize electronic components, and our customers specifically, could seriously harm our customers and, as a result, us. These factors include: • The inability of our customers to adapt to rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards, which may result in short product life cycles; • The inability of our customers to develop and market their products, some of which are new and untested; • The potential that our customers’ products may become obsolete or the failure of our customers’ products to gain widespread commercial acceptance; • Recessionary periods in our customers’ markets; • Increased competition among our customers and their respective competitors which may result in a loss of business, or a reduction in pricing power, for our customers; and • New product offerings by our customers’ competitors may prove to be more successful than our customers’ product offerings. If our customers are unsuccessful in addressing these competitive challenges, or any others that they may face, then their business may be materially adversely affected, and as a result, the demand for our services could decline. Our business has been characterized by a rapidly changing mix of products and customers. Since 2007, we have targeted markets that we believe offer significant growth opportunities and for which OEMs sell complex products that are subject to rapid technological change. We believe that markets involving complex, rapidly changing products offer us opportunities to produce products with higher margins because these products require higher value-added manufacturing services and may also include advanced components. We expect that our current mix of customers and products will continue to change rapidly, and we believe this to be relatively common in the EMS industry. If the products we manufacture for our customers become obsolete or less profitable and we are not able to diversify our product offerings or expand customer base in a timely manner, our business could be materially and adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents There may not be a sufficient market for new products that our customers or we develop. Our customers may not develop new products in a timely and cost-effective manner, or the market for products they choose to develop may not grow or continue in line with their expectations. This would reduce the overall businesses they outsource, which would seriously affect our business and operating results. Even if we develop capabilities to manufacture new products, there can be no guarantee that a market exists or will develop for such products or that such products will adequately respond to market trends. If we invest resources to develop capabilities to manufacture or expand capabilities for existing and new products, like our investments in our new factory in Wuxi, China and in the land in Guangming Hi-Tech Industrial Park in Shenzhen, China for which sales do not develop, our business and operating results could be seriously harmed. Even if the market for our services grows, it may not grow at an adequate pace. We must spend substantial amounts to maintain and develop advanced manufacturing processes and engage additional engineering personnel in order to attract new customers and business. We operate in a rapidly changing industry. Technological advances and the introduction of new products and new manufacturing and design techniques could materially and adversely affect our business unless we are able to adapt to those changing conditions. As a result, we are continually required to commit substantial funds for, and significant resources to, engaging additional engineering and other technical personnel and to purchase advanced design, production and test equipment. Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on our ability to continue to provide new manufacturing solutions which, based on time to introduction, cost and performance with the manufacturing capabilities of OEMs and competitive third-party suppliers compare favorably to those offered by our competitors. Our success in attracting new customers and developing new business depends on various factors, including: • the utilization of advances in technology; • the development of new or improved manufacturing processes for our customers’ products; • the delivery of efficient and cost-effective services; and • the timely completion of manufacturing of new products. Our business is capital intensive and the failure to generate sufficient cash could require that we curtail capital expenditures. To remain competitive, we must continue to make investments in capital equipment, facilities and technological improvements. We plan to finance our expansion with capital we generate from operations. If we are unable to generate sufficient funds to conduct existing operations and fund our expansion, we may have to curtail our capital expenditures. Any curtailment of our capital expenditures could result in a reduction in net sales, the reduction or elimination of dividends to shareholders, the reduced quality of our products, increased manufacturing costs for our products, harm to our reputation and reduced manufacturing efficiencies. Our inability to obtain local government approvals to release or obtain lands needed for our planned expansion projects could limit our future manufacturing capacity and adversely impact our growth and potentially our financial results when our existing capacity is reached. Currently, we have two separate projects planned for expansion, including: • the development of raw land in the Guangming Hi-Tech Industrial Park in Shenzhen, China that we acquired in 2007 into new manufacturing and support facilities to supplement our current manufacturing capabilities at our principal manufacturing facilities in Shenzhen, China; and • the acquisition and development of raw land adjacent to our recently operational manufacturing facility in Wuxi, China in order to construct buildings to support our operations in Wuxi, such as: dormitories, a canteen, a labor activity center, a research laboratory and testing and training centers. All capital construction and expansion projects in China require a number of government approvals, which are subject to a variety of regulatory, economic and policy factors that are beyond our control. For example, although we fully paid the local government for the land use rights at our Guangming property in 2007, the government has delayed the release of this land to us and we have not been able to commence development of the property. In the case of our planned expansion in Wuxi, while the local Wuxi government has indicated to us that it strongly supports our expansion and development, it has been slow in providing the approvals and documentation necessary for us to consummate the acquisition of the land use rights and begin development. We believe that the immediate expansion of our manufacturing facilities in Shenzhen is needed. We expect that our production capacity will be fully utilized by the end of 2012 at our principal manufacturing facilities in Shenzhen. Similarly, we expect that our existing Wuxi facilities will reach full capacity by 2013. In order to increase capacity and house additional workers at our Wuxi facilities, we believe we need to complete construction of the planned adjunct facilities by 2013. 11 Table of Contents When we receive government approval, construction at Guangming and Wuxi could be further delayed by construction delays, equipment delays or shortages, labor shortages or disputes or other unexpected events. If we reach our manufacturing capacity before we are able to complete development of our planned expansion projects we may not be able to accept new customers or serve our existing customers adequately and could potentially lose them, either of which could harm our growth, profitability and financial results. We generally do not have written agreements with suppliers to obtain components and our margins and operating results could suffer from price increases of components. For certain customers, we are responsible for purchasing components used in manufacturing their products. We do not have written agreements with some of our suppliers of components and, in many cases, we bear the risk of cost increases. We may be unable to procure the required materials at a price level necessary to generate anticipated margins from the orders of our customers. Accordingly, increases in component prices could materially and adversely affect our gross margins and operating results. Our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected if our component suppliers fail to meet our needs. At various times, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience, shortages of some of the electronic components that we use. Some of our component suppliers lack sufficient capacity to meet the demand for these components. In some cases, supply shortages and delays in deliveries of particular components have resulted in curtailed production, or delays in production, of assemblies using that component, which contributed to an increase in our inventory levels and reduction in our gross margins. We expect that shortages and delays in deliveries of some components will continue. If we are unable to obtain sufficient components on a timely basis, we may experience manufacturing delays, which could harm our relationships with current or prospective customers and reduce our sales. We also depend on a small number of suppliers for certain components that we use in our business. If we were unable to continue to purchase components from this group, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We may be required to write down our long-lived assets and a significant impairment charge would adversely affect our operating results. At December 31, 2011, we had $161.3 million in long-lived assets on our balance sheet. The valuation of our long-lived assets requires us to make assumptions about future sales prices and sales volumes for our products. Our assumptions are used to forecast future undiscounted cash flows. Given the current economic environment, uncertainties regarding the duration and severity of these conditions, forecasting future business is difficult and subject to modification. If actual market conditions differ or our forecasts change, we may be required to reassess long-lived assets and we may have to record an impairment charge. Any impairment charge relating to long-lived assets would have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses in such period. If we are required to take a substantial impairment charge, our operating results could be materially adversely affected in the periods and year in which the charge is incurred. The PRC’s labor law could penalize Nam Tai if it needs to make additional workforce reductions. In June 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC enacted new labor law legislation called the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. It formalizes workers’ rights concerning overtime hours, pensions, layoffs, employment contracts and the role of trade unions. Considered one of the strictest labor laws in the world, among other things, this new law provides for an “open-ended employment contract” for any employee who either has worked for the employer for 10 years or more or has had two consecutive fixed-term contracts. An “open-ended employment contract” is a lifetime, permanent contract, which is terminable by the Company only in specific circumstances, such as a material breach by the employee of the employer’s rules and regulations or for a serious dereliction of an employee’s duty. Under the new law, a reduction in the workforce of 20% or more may occur only under specific circumstances, such as a restructuring undertaken pursuant China’s Enterprise Bankruptcy Law or where a company suffers serious difficulties in production and/or business operations. In addition, the new law requires that companies communicate with the labor union of the Company and the District Labor Bureau if the Company terminates the employment of 20 or more people at one time. We can expect to incur much higher costs under China’s labor laws if we are forced in the future to downsize our workforce materially and such costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents The economy of China has been experiencing significant growth, leading to inflation and increased labor costs. Any material increases in the labor costs for workers in the PRC may have a material and adverse effect on our financial operating results and profitability. We generate all revenues from sales of products that we manufacture at our facilities in the PRC. The economy in China has grown significantly over the past 20 years, which has resulted in inflation and an increase in the average cost of labor, especially in the coastal cities. China’s consumer price index, the broadest measure of inflation, rose 4.5% in January 2012 from the level in January 2011. The wages we pay our employees also increased substantially in 2011. At December 31, 2011, the average wage level of our direct labour workforce was approximately 27% higher than that at December 31, 2010. China’s overall economy and the average wage in the PRC are expected to continue to grow. Continuing inflation and material increases in the cost of labor in China could diminish our competitive advantage. Unless we are able pass on these increased labor costs to our customers by increasing prices for our products and services, our profitability and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are exposed to global business trends in the mobile phone industry, which could result in even lower gross margins on mobile phone components and subassemblies we manufacture. During the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 88% of our sales were derived from subassemblies and components for mobile phones. Accordingly, any fluctuations in the size of the mobile phone market, market trends, increased competition or pricing pressure in the mobile phone industry may affect our business and operating results. For example, the mobile phone industry has been experiencing rapid growth, particularly from emerging economies such as India and China. The growth in these markets, however, does not necessarily translate into increased margins or growing profits as mobile phones sold in developing countries are typically stripped down to basic features and sold for low prices. Competition in the emerging markets is fierce, even more intense than in developed markets. Accordingly, we expect that our margins and profitability from the components and assemblies we manufacture for use in mobile phones for emerging economies will continue to undergo severe pricing pressures, resulting in lower margins than we have experienced historically. Our customers are dependent on shipping companies for the delivery of our products. Interruptions to shipping could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our customers rely on a variety of carriers for product transportation through various international ports. A work stoppage, strike or shutdown of one or more major ports or airports could result in shipping delays that could materially and adversely affect our customers, our business and our operating results. Similarly, an increase in freight surcharges from rising fuel costs or general price increases could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. The political, economic and legal uncertainties involved with operating an international organization could significantly harm us. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 97.2% of the net book value of our total property, plant and equipment was located in China. We sell our products to customers in Hong Kong, North America, Europe, Japan, China and Southeast Asia. Our international operations are subject to significant political and economic risks and legal uncertainties, including: • changes in economic and political conditions and in governmental policies; • changes in international and domestic customs regulations; • wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts; • changes in tariffs, trade restrictions, trade agreements and taxation; • limitations on the repatriation of funds because of foreign exchange controls; • exposure to political and financial instability; • currency exchange fluctuations, collection difficulties or other country-specific losses; • exposure to fluctuations in the value of local currencies; • changes in value-added tax reimbursement; • imposition of currency exchange controls; and • delays from customs brokers or government agencies. Any of these risks could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 13 Table of Contents Our operating results could be negatively impacted by seasonality. Historically, our sales and operating results have been affected by seasonality. Sales of products and components related to mobile phones have generally been lower in the first quarter after peaking in the fourth quarter. Sales of educational products and home entertainment devices are often higher during the second and third quarters in anticipation of the start of the school year and the holiday season. Similarly, orders for consumer electronics products have historically been lower in the first quarter due to the closing of our factories in China for the Lunar New Year holidays and the general reduction in sales following the holiday season. These sales patterns may not be indicative of our future sales performance. For example, in 2009 as a result of the prevailing economic turmoil, many of our customers either postponed or cancelled orders that had been scheduled to be delivered for the holidays, which based on our historical seasonal patterns was unusual. The long, national seasonal breaks in the PRC, such as the Chinese Lunar New Year holidays during the first quarter, and the National Day Golden week during the fourth quarter, typically adversely affect our ability to manufacture products, obtain components and materials from suppliers and receive and process orders from customers. Accordingly our results of operations during these periods can be expected to suffer. Our results could be adversely affected with intensifying environmental regulations. Our operations create environmentally sensitive waste. Our manufacturing process involves the use and disposal of chemicals, solid and hazardous waste and other toxic and hazardous materials. The disposal of hazardous waste has received increasing attention from Chinese national and local governments and foreign governments and agencies and is subject to increasing regulation. Currently, Chinese environmental protection laws and regulations impose fines on the discharge of waste materials and empower certain environmental authorities to close any facility that causes serious environmental problems. The costs of remedying violations or resolving enforcement actions that might be initiated by governmental authorities could be substantial. Any remediation of environmental contamination would involve substantial expense that could harm our operating results. In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our operations may be subject or the manner in which existing or future laws will be administered or interpreted. Future regulations may be applied to materials, products or activities that have not yet been subject to regulation. The costs of complying with new or more stringent regulations could be significant. Global environmental legislation continues to emerge. These laws place increased responsibility and requirements on the “producers” of electronic equipment and, in turn, their EMS providers and suppliers. On July 1, 2006, the European Union’s Restriction of Hazardous Substances (“RoHS”) came into effect. As a result, the use of lead and certain other specific substances in electronic products is restricted in the European Union. Where appropriate, we have transitioned our manufacturing processes and interfaced with suppliers and customers to review and secure RoHS compliance. In the event we are not in compliance with the RoHS requirements, we could incur substantial costs, including fines and penalties, as well as liability to our customers. In addition, our customers who were deemed exempt for certain substances, or beyond the scope of the legislation, are beginning to be impacted by the changing supply chain. In this respect, we may incur costs related to the portion of our inventory that contains these restricted substances. There are also European Union requirements with respect to the collection, recycling and management of electronic product and component waste. Under the European Union’s Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) directive, responsibility rests primarily with OEMs rather than with EMS companies. However, OEMs may turn to EMS companies such as Nam Tai for assistance in meeting their WEEE obligations. Failure by our customers to meet the RoHS or WEEE requirements or obligations could have a negative impact on their businesses and revenues which would adversely impact our financial results. Similar restrictions are being proposed or enacted in other jurisdictions, including China. We cannot currently assess the impact of these legislations on our operations. Power shortages in China could affect our business. We consume substantial amounts of electricity in our manufacturing processes at our production facilities in China. Certain parts of China, including areas where our manufacturing facilities are located, have been subject to power shortages in recent years. We have experienced a number of power shortages at our production facilities in China to date. Sometimes we are given advance notice of power shortages and, in response to the occurrence of power shortages we currently have a backup power system. However, there can be no assurance that in the future our backup power system will be completely effective in the event of a power shortage, particularly if that power shortage is over a sustained period of time and/or we are not given advance notice of it. Any power shortage, brownout or blackout for a significant period of time may disrupt our manufacturing, and as a result, may have an adverse impact on our business. 14 Table of Contents Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the risks to our manufacturing facilities or related to our operations. We have not experienced any major accidents in the course of our operations, which have caused significant property damage or personal injuries. However, there is no assurance that major accidents will not occur in the future. Although we have insurance against various risks, including a business interruption or losses or damages to our buildings, machinery, equipment and inventories, the occurrence of certain incidents such as major earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, war, acts of terrorism, pandemics and flood, and their consequences, we may not be covered adequately, or at all, by our insurance. In the event of a major earthquake or other disaster affecting our manufacturing facilities, our operations and management information systems, which control our worldwide procurement, inventory management and shipping and billing activities, could be significantly disrupted. Such events could also delay or prevent product manufacturing and shipment for the time required to transfer production or repair, rebuild or replace the affected manufacturing facilities. This time frame could be lengthy and result in significant expenses for repair and related costs. Any extended inability to continue our operations at affected facilities following such an event would reduce our revenue and potentially damage our reputation as a reliable supplier. We also face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of our products are alleged to have resulted in property damage, bodily injury or other adverse effects. We have limited product liability insurance covering only some of our products. Losses incurred or payments we may be required to make in excess of applicable insurance coverage or for uninsured events or any material claim for which insurance coverage is denied, limited or is not available could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We could become involved in intellectual property disputes. We do not have any patents, licenses, or trademarks material to our business. Instead, we rely on trade secrets, industry expertise and our customers sharing their intellectual property with us. However, there can be no assurance that the intellectual property of our customers is their intellectual property. We may be notified that we are infringing patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights owned by other parties. In the event of an infringement claim, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to develop a non-infringing alternative or to obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing such an alternative or obtaining a license on reasonable terms, if at all. Any litigation, even without merit, could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We depend on our executive officers and skilled personnel and, if we are unable to attract or retain personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to perform our services and manufacture and market our products successfully could be harmed. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers as well as upon our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, manufacturing and marketing personnel. Generally, we have entered into employment agreements or non-competition agreements with our executive officers. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able retain our executive officers and we could be seriously harmed by the loss of any of our executive officers. The loss of service of any of these officers or key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business growth and operating results. Although we maintain key person life insurance for our executive officers, such coverage may not be adequate to protect us in the event of loss of such personnel. As our operations grow, we also need to recruit and retain additional skilled management personnel and if we are not able to do so, our business and our ability to grow could be harmed. We have experienced high management and employee turnover at our manufacturing facilities in China, and are experiencing increased difficulty in recruiting employees for these facilities. In addition, we are noting the early signs of wage inflation, labor unrest and increased unionization in China and expect these to be ongoing trends for the foreseeable future, which could cause employee issues, including work stoppages, excessive wage increases and the formation of more active labor unions, at our China facilities. Virtually all of our employees work at our facilities in China, and the costs associated with hiring and retaining these employees has increased over the past several years and particularly during the last two years. The high turnover rate, our difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified employees and the labor trends in China have resulted in an increase in our employee expenses. A continuation of any of these trends could result in even higher costs and production disruptions or delays, which may result in order cancellations and the imposition of customer penalties. If we were unable to perform manufacturing services and deliver our products on time, it could have a negative impact on our net sales and profitability. 15 Table of Contents The PRC legal system has inherent uncertainties that could materially and adversely impact our ability to enforce the agreements governing our factories and to do business. We occupy our manufacturing facilities under China land use agreements with agencies of the PRC government and we occupy other facilities under lease agreements with the relevant landlord. Our operations depend on our relationship with the local governments in the regions which our facilities are located and our landlords. Our operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected by the failure of the local government to honor these agreements or an adverse change in the law governing them. In the event of a dispute, enforcement of these agreements could be difficult in China. Unlike the United States, China has a civil law system based on written statutes in which judicial decisions have limited precedential value. The government of China has enacted laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, its experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited, and our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes in China is unpredictable. These matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the PRC government, and forces and factors unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. Political or trade controversies between China and the United States could harm our operating results or depress our stock price. The United States and PRC governments continue to disagree on some political issues. These occasional controversies could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Political or trade friction between the two countries could also materially and adversely affect the market price of our shares, whether or not they adversely affect our business. Changes to PRC tax laws and heightened efforts by the China’s tax authorities to increase revenues have subjected us to greater taxes. Under PRC law before 2008, we were afforded a number of tax concessions by, and tax refunds from, China’s tax authorities on a substantial portion of our operations in China by reinvesting all or part of the profits attributable to our PRC manufacturing operations. However, on March 16, 2007, the Chinese government enacted a unified enterprise income tax law or EIT, which became effective on January 1, 2008. Prior to the EIT, as a foreign invested enterprise, or “FIE”, located in Shenzhen, China, our PRC subsidiaries enjoyed a national income tax rate of 15% and were exempted from the 3% local income tax. The preferential tax treatment given to our subsidiaries in the PRC as a result of reinvesting their profits earned in previous years in the PRC also expired on January 1, 2008. Under the EIT, most domestic enterprises and FIEs will be subject to a single PRC enterprise income tax rate of 25% in 2012 and afterward. For information on the EIT rates as announced by the PRC’s State Council for the transition period until year 2012, please see the table in ITEM 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects on page 37 of this Report. We base our tax position upon the anticipated nature and conduct of our business and upon our understanding of the tax laws of the various administrative regions and countries in which we have assets or conduct activities. However, our tax position is subject to review and possible challenge by taxing authorities and to possible changes in law, which may have retroactive effect. We cannot determine in advance the extent to which some jurisdictions may require us to pay taxes or make payments in lieu of taxes. We appear to have been a passive foreign investment company for 2011 and we may also be a passive foreign investment company for 2012, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for U.S. investors. The determination of whether we are a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, in any taxable year is made on an annual basis after the close of that year and depends on the composition of our income and the nature and value of our assets, including goodwill. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC if, after applying relevant look-through rules with respect to the income and assets of subsidiaries, either (i) 75% or more of our gross income for such taxable year is passive income, or (ii) 50% or more of the value of our assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during such year) is attributable to assets that either produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income (the “PFIC asset test”). Based upon the nature and book value of our assets and the total market value, or market capitalization, of our shares (which reflects goodwill) at the end of each quarter during 2011, we appear to have been a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for 2011. We have not conducted an appraisal of the actual fair market value of our assets for 2011 or currently in 2012, and we cannot anticipate the market capitalization of our shares for 2012. Accordingly, we may be treated as a PFIC for 2012. Our characterization as a PFIC during any year could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for U.S. investors. For example, if we were a PFIC in 2011, in 2012 or in any other taxable year, U.S. investors who owned our common shares generally would be subject to increased U.S. tax liabilities and reporting requirements. 16 Table of Contents Given the complexity of the issues regarding our classification as a PFIC, U.S. investors are urged to consult their own tax advisors for guidance as to our PFIC status. For further discussion of the adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences of from the classification as a PFIC see “Taxation—United States Federal Income Tax Consequences” beginning on page 67 of this Report. Changes in foreign exchange regulations of China could adversely affect our operating results. Some of our earnings are denominated in yuan, the base unit of the RMB. The People’s Bank of China and the State Administration of foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) regulate the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies. Under the current unified floating exchange rate system, the People’s Bank of China publishes a daily exchange rate for RMB based on the previous day’s dealings in the inter-bank foreign exchange market. Financial institutions may enter into foreign exchange transactions at exchange rates within an authorized range above or below the exchange rate published by the People’s Bank of China according to the market conditions. Since 1996, the PRC government has issued a number of rules, regulations and notices regarding foreign exchange control designed to provide for greater convertibility of RMB. Under such regulations, any FIE must establish a “current account” and a “capital account” with a bank authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Currently, FIEs are able to exchange RMB into foreign exchange currencies at designated foreign exchange banks for settlement of current account transactions, which include payment of dividends based on the board resolutions authorizing the distribution of profits or dividends of the company concerned, without the approval of SAFE. Conversion of RMB into foreign currencies for capital account transactions, which include the receipt and payment of foreign currencies for loans and capital contributions, continues to be subject to limitations and requires the approval of SAFE. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient foreign currencies to make relevant payments or satisfy other foreign currency requirements in the future. Changes in currency exchange rates involving the Japanese yen or RMB have and could continue to significantly affect our financial results. Our financial results have been affected by currency fluctuations, resulting in total foreign exchange gains or losses during each of our three fiscal years ended December 31 as indicated in the following chart: Our operating costs and financial results have been adversely affected by the appreciation of the RMB to the U.S. dollar because operating costs, which include labor costs, are denominated in RMB. Future appreciation of the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar would increase our costs and could adversely affect our margins and financial results unless we made sufficient sales in Japanese yen to offset the costs and expenses, including material purchases, we incur in Japanese yen. We sell most of our products in U.S. dollars and pay our expenses in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen, Hong Kong dollars and RMB. While we face a variety of risks associated with changes among the relative value of these currencies, we believe the most significant exchange risk presently results from the costs and expenses we pay in RMB and Japanese yen, and material purchases we make, in Japanese yen. 17 Table of Contents The appreciation and depreciation of the RMB compared to the U.S. dollar increases and decreases our costs and expenses to the extent paid in RMB, respectively. Approximately 18%, 17% and 19% of our total costs and expenses and 9%, 7% and 9% of our material costs were in RMB during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Similarly, the appreciation and depreciation of the Japanese yen as compared to the U.S. dollar increases and decreases our costs and expenses to the extent paid in yen, respectively. Approximately 18%, 24% and 5% of our total costs and expenses and 14%, 29% and 6% of our material costs were in Japanese yen during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. However, we make substantial sales denominated in Japanese yen, which mitigates the effects of fluctuations in the yen-U.S. dollar exchange ratio on our financial results. Approximately 12%, 23% and 5% respectively, of our total net sales were made in Japanese yen during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. A future material appreciation of the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar would increase our costs when translated into U.S. dollars and could adversely affect our margins and financial results unless we made sufficient sales in Japanese yen to offset against material purchases and other costs we paid in Japanese yen. If we pass the effect of increases in the RMB and/or Japanese yen relative to the U.S. dollars to our customers through price increases it would make our products more expensive. This could result in the loss of customers, who may seek, and be able to obtain, products and services comparable to those we offer in lower-cost regions of the world. If we did not increase our prices to pass on the effect of increases in the RMB or Japanese yen relative to the U.S. dollars, our margins and profitability could suffer. Nam Tai’s declaration and payment of dividends is not assured. We declared no dividends for 2009 and 2010. Although our Board has resumed dividends for 2011 and 2012, we may not declare or pay dividends thereafter. Before 2009, we had a long history of paying dividend. In February 2009, our board of directors decided not to declare a dividend. In February 2010, our board of directors also decided not to declare a dividend. The board of directors decided not to declare a dividend in 2009 and 2010 in order to maintain our cash reserves during a period of global economic turmoil. The Company resumed the payment of quarterly dividends of $0.05 and $0.07 per share for 2011 and 2012 respectively. The payment of dividends in 2011 and 2012 does not necessarily mean that dividend payments will continue thereafter. Whether future dividends will be declared will depend on our future growth and earnings and our cash flow needs for future expansion. Our growth, earning or cash flow needs may be adversely affected by one or more of the factors discussed in this section of our Report or by other factors. There can be no assurance that cash dividends on the Company’s shares will be declared for years after 2012, what the amounts of such dividends will be or whether such dividends, once declared for a specific period, will continue for any future period, or at all. For additional information on the dividends we have declared for 2012 and historically, please see ITEM 8. Dividends on page 62 of this Report. Payment of dividends by our subsidiaries in the PRC to our subsidiaries outside of the PRC and to us, as the ultimate parent, is subject to restrictions under PRC law. If we determine to continue our payment of dividends to our shareholders, the PRC tax law could force us to reduce the amount of dividends we have historically paid to our shareholders or possibly eliminate our ability to pay any dividends at all. Under PRC law, dividends may only be paid out of distributable profits. Distributable profits with respect to our subsidiaries in the PRC refers to after-tax profits as determined in accordance with accounting principles and financial regulations applicable to PRC enterprises (“China GAAP”) less any recovery of accumulated losses and allocations to statutory funds that we are required to make. Any distributable profits that are not distributed in a given year are retained and available for distribution in subsequent years. The calculation of distributable profits under China GAAP differs in many respects from the calculation under U.S. GAAP. As a result, our subsidiaries in PRC may not be able to pay a dividend in a given year as determined under U.S. GAAP. China’s tax authorities may also change the determination of income which would limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and make other distributions. 18 Table of Contents Prior to the EIT law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, PRC-organized companies were exempt from withholding taxes with respect to earnings distributions, or dividends, paid to shareholders of PRC companies outside the PRC. However, under the new EIT Law, dividends payable to foreign investors which are derived from sources within the PRC will be subject to income tax at the rate of 5% to 15% by way of withholding unless the foreign investors are companies incorporated in countries which have tax treaty agreements with the PRC and then the rate agreed by both parties will be applied. For example, under the terms of the tax treaty between Hong Kong and the PRC, which became effective in December 2006, distributions from our PRC subsidiaries to our Hong Kong subsidiary, will be subject to a withholding tax at a rate ranging from 5% to 10%, depending on the extent of ownership of equity interests held by our Hong Kong subsidiary in our PRC enterprises. As a result of this new PRC withholding tax, amounts available to us in earnings distributions from our PRC enterprises will be reduced. Since we derive most of our profits from our subsidiaries in PRC, the reduction in amounts available for distribution from our PRC enterprises could, depending on the income generated by our PRC subsidiaries, force us to reduce, or possibly eliminate, the dividends we have paid to our shareholders historically. For this reason, or other factors, we may decide not to declare dividends in the future. If we do pay dividends, we will determine the amounts when they are declared and even if we do declare dividends in the future, we may not continue them in any future period. The market price of our shares will likely be subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations. The markets for equity securities have been volatile and the price of our common shares has been and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to variations in our operating results, news announcements, trading volume, sales of common shares by our officers, directors and our principal shareholders, customers, suppliers or other publicly traded companies, general market trends both domestically and internationally, currency movements and interest rate fluctuations. Other events, such as the issuance of common shares upon the exercise of our outstanding stock options could also materially and adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares. Further, the stock markets have often experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of the equity securities of many companies and that have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Our senior management owns a large portion of our common stock allowing them to control or substantially influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. On February 28, 2012, members of our senior management and board of directors as a group beneficially owned approximately 25.0% of our common shares. As a result, acting together, they may be able to control and substantially influence the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This ability may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Nam Tai, or causing a change in control of Nam Tai that may not be favored by our other shareholders. Regulatory initiatives in the United States, such as the Dodd-Frank Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act have increased, and may continue to increase the time and costs of being a U.S. public company and any further changes would likely continue to increase our costs. In the United States, changes in corporate governance practices due to the Dodd-Frank Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, changes in the continued listing rules of the New York Stock Exchange, new accounting pronouncements and new regulatory legislation, rules or accounting changes have increased the cost of being a U.S. public company and may have an adverse impact on our future financial position and operating results. These regulatory changes and other legislative initiatives have made some activities more time-consuming and have increased financial compliance and administrative costs for public companies, including foreign private issuers like Nam Tai. In addition, any future changes in regulatory legislation, rules or accounting may cause our legal and accounting costs to further increase. In addition, these new rules and regulations require increasing time commitments and resource commitments from our company, including from senior management. This increased cost could negatively impact our earnings and have a material adverse effect on our financial position results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Due to inherent limitations, there can be no assurance that our system of disclosure and internal controls and procedures will be successful in preventing all errors or fraud, or in informing management of all material information in a timely manner. Our management, including the Acting Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and internal controls and procedures will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system reflects that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been or will be detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur simply because of error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control. The design of any system of controls is also based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. There can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur or may not be detected. There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the SEC are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets (including intangible assets), liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to changes in the future, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operation. It may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against our management or us. We are a British Virgin Islands holding corporation with subsidiaries in Hong Kong and China. Substantially, all of our assets are located in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and executive officers reside within the PRC or Hong Kong, and substantially all of the assets of these persons are located within the PRC or Hong Kong. It may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside the PRC or Hong Kong upon our directors, or executive officers, including effecting service of process with respect to matters arising under United States federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. The PRC does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States and many other countries. As a result, recognition and enforcement in the PRC of judgments of a court in the United States or many other jurisdictions in relation to any matter, including securities laws, may be difficult or impossible. An original action may be brought against our assets and our subsidiaries, our directors and executive officers in the PRC only if the actions are not required to be arbitrated by PRC law and only if the facts alleged in the complaint give rise to a cause of action under PRC law. In connection with any such original action, a PRC court may award civil liability, including monetary damages. No treaty exists between Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands and the United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. However, the courts of Hong Kong and the British Virgin Islands are generally prepared to accept a foreign judgment as evidence of a debt due. An action may then be commenced in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands for recovery of this debt. A Hong Kong or British Virgin Islands court will only accept a foreign judgment as evidence of a debt due if: • the judgment is for a liquidated amount in a civil matter; • the judgment is final and conclusive; • the judgment is not, directly or indirectly, for the payment of foreign taxes, penalties, fines or charges of a like nature (in this regard, a Hong Kong court is unlikely to accept a judgment for an amount obtained by doubling, trebling or otherwise multiplying a sum assessed as compensation for the loss or damage sustained by the person in whose favor the judgment was given); • the judgment was not obtained by actual or constructive fraud or duress; • the foreign court has taken jurisdiction on grounds that are recognized by the common law rules as to conflict of laws in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands; 20 Table of Contents • the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained were not contrary to natural justice (i.e. the concept of fair adjudication); • the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained, the judgment itself and the enforcement of the judgment are not contrary to the public policy of Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands; • the person against whom the judgment is given is subject to the jurisdiction of a foreign court; and • the judgment is not on a claim for contribution in respect of damages awarded by a judgment, which fall under Section 7 of the Protection of Trading Interests Ordinance, Chapter 7 of the Laws of Hong Kong. Enforcement of a foreign judgment in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands may also be limited or affected by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, arrangement and moratorium, or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors’ rights generally, and will be subject to a statutory limitation of time within which proceedings may be brought. Future issuances of preference shares could materially and adversely affect the holders of our common shares or delay or prevent a change of control. Our Board of Directors may amend our Memorandum and Articles of Association without shareholder approval to create from time to time, and issue, one or more classes of preference shares (which are analogous to preferred stock of corporations organized in the United States). While we have never issued any preference shares and we have none outstanding, we could issue preference shares in the future. Future issuance of preference shares could materially and adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common shares, or delay or prevent a change of control. We incurred substantial expenses and costs in privatizing Nam Tai Electronic & Electrical Products Limited. It may require a number of years to realize the benefits from owning 100% of NTEEP. In November 2009, we successfully completed the privatization of Nam Tai Electronic & Electrical Products Limited, or NTEEP, by tendering for and acquiring the 25.12% of NTEEP that we did not previously own. As a result of the acquisition, NTEEP became our wholly owned subsidiary. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we expended approximately $44.3 million to acquire NTEEP’s noncontrolling shares, including approximately $0.9 million in professional fees and related expenses. We financed these expenditures with internally generated funds. Although our acquisition of NTEEP has resulted in cost savings and the elimination of profit sharing with NTEEP’s noncontrolling shareholders, which improved our financial results during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, we will only benefit from this acquisition to the extent NTEEP’s operations remain profitable. Even if NTEEP’s future operating results remain profitable, it may take a number of years before NTEEP’s net income that was attributable to the noncontrolling interests and the overhead costs saved from NTEEP’s privatization equal the costs and expenses of acquiring that interest. Our status as a foreign private issuer in the United States exempts us from certain of the reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE limiting the protections and information afforded to investors. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to public companies in the United States, including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K or annual reports on Form 10-K; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act or disclosures required in a proxy statement in accordance with rules therefor promulgated under the Exchange Act; • the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; and • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction (i.e. a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). 21 Table of Contents In addition, because the Company is a foreign private issuer, certain corporate governance standards of the NYSE that are applied to domestic companies listed on that exchange may not be applicable to us. For information regarding whether our corporate governance standards differ from those applied to US domestic issuers, see the discussion under “NYSE listed Company Manual Disclosure” in ITEM 6. Directors and Senior Management of this Report. Because of these exemptions, investors are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States or traded on the NYSE. See footnote “*” on page 52 of this Report under the heading “Compensation on an Individual Basis” for information and risks associated with disclosures we have made in this Report or may make in our proxy statements regarding compensation we have paid to our directors and senior managers on an individual basis. Product quality issues could adversely affect our reputation and could impact our operating results. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. To remain competitive, we must continually introduce new manufacturing solutions. The products that we sell could contain defects in design or manufacture. Defects could also occur in the products or components that are supplied to us. There can be no assurance we will be able to detect and remedy all defects in the products we sell. Failure to do so could result in product recalls, product redesign efforts, lost revenue, loss of reputation, and significant warranty and other expenses to remedy. 