ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves a significant degree of risk. You should not invest in our common stock unless you can afford to lose your entire investment. You should consider carefully the following risk factors and other information in this report before deciding to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected and you could lose your entire investment in our company. We have a history of losses and there are no assurances we will ever generate profits. As of December 31, 2010 we have an accumulated deficit of approximately $105.7 million. For 2010, our operating loss from continuing operations was approximately $4.6 million and for 2009 our operating loss from continuing operations was approximately $5.1 million. Our future capital requirements depend on a number of factors, including our ability to internally grow our revenues, manage our business and control our expenses. If we are not successful in increasing our revenues we may be required to raise additional capital to fund our operations and pay our obligations as they become due. We do not have any firm commitments to provide capital and there are no assurances that we would be able to raise funds upon terms satisfactory to our company. We are subject to risks frequently encountered by companies in the Internet marketing and advertising industry. Our prospects for financial and operational success must be considered in light of the risks frequently encountered by companies in the Internet marketing and advertising industry. During 2010, the search alliance between Microsoft and Yahoo adversely impacted our revenues and any continued consolidation within the search segment could result in additional decline in this portion of our business. In addition, we face other risks associated with our industry, including the need to: • attract new clients and maintain current client relationships; • achieve effective advertising campaign results for our clients; • continue to expand the number of services and technologies we offer; • successfully implement our business model, which is evolving; • respond to pricing pressure in some of our lines of business; • maintain our reputation and build trust with our clients; • identify, attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; • accurately measure impressions, searches, clicks, or other online actions for our advertisers, publishers, or partners; • adapt to changes in online advertising, email, and other filtering software; and • manage online credit card billing and customer service concerns. There are no assurances we will be able to effectively manage these risks. Our failure to do so could result in a decline in our revenues and impact our ability to continue as a going concern. We may not successfully defend ourselves against litigation. We are a defendant in a several pending lawsuits in which the plaintiffs are seeking damages in significant amounts. If we are not successful, one or more of these lawsuits could result in an unfavorable judgment against us. If we are unable to satisfactorily settle these lawsuits and we do not prevail in court, we may be subject to judgments in amounts which exceed our available capital which will damage our business and our ability to continue as a going concern. 11 Our success depends on our ability to continue and expand relationships with other Internet media content, advertising and product providers. The Internet includes an ever-increasing number of businesses that offer and market consumer products and services. Advertising providers allow us to generate advertising revenue from our and our affiliates’ websites, as well as profit sharing arrangements for joint effort marketing programs. We expect that with the increasing number of entrants into the Internet commerce arena, advertising costs and joint effort marketing programs will become more competitive. Additionally, upstream advertising networks that we use may offer customers discounts as away to attract more advertisers to their network thereby reducing our revenues generated by these networks. This competitive environment might prevent us from satisfactorily executing profit generating advertising and joint effort marketing programs in the future. This competitive environment may also prevent us from providing content and product and service providers from marketing their products and services through our or our affiliates’ websites. If we fail to continue establishing new, and maintain and expand existing, profitable advertising and joint marketing arrangements, we may suffer substantial adverse consequences to our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to raise additional capital as needed, our ability to grow our company and satisfy our obligations as they become due will be in jeopardy. It is likely that we will need to raise significant additional capital to grow our company, fund our operating expenses and satisfy our obligations as they become due, including our revolving credit facility with Bridge Bank, N.A. which matures in 2013. We do not have any commitments to provide this additional capital and we cannot assure you that funds are available to us upon terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we do not raise funds as needed, our ability to provide for current working capital needs and satisfy our obligations is in jeopardy. In this event, you could lose all of your investment in our company. We depend on a single customer for a significant portion of our revenues. We received 80.3% of our net revenue for 2010 from a single customer and this customer accounted for 66.5% of our revenue in 2009. We currently have one year remaining on the original agreement with this customer. The loss of that customer or a material change in the revenue or gross profit generated by that customer could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We compete with many companies, some of whom are more established and better capitalized than us. We compete with a variety of companies on a worldwide basis both through the Internet and in traditional markets. Some of these companies are larger and better capitalized than us. There are also few barriers to entry in our markets. Our competitors may develop services that are superior to, or have greater market acceptance than our services. For example, many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and larger customer bases than us. These factors may allow our competitors to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Our competitors may engage in more extensive research and development efforts, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns and adopt more aggressive pricing policies which may allow them to build larger registrant and membership bases. In addition, current and potential competitors are making, and are expected to continue to make, strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative, and, in some cases, exclusive relationships with significant companies or competitors to expand their businesses or to offer more comprehensive products and services. To the extent these competitors or potential competitors establish exclusive relationships with major portals, search engines and ISPs, our ability to reach potential members through online advertising may be restricted. Any of these competitors could cause us difficulty in attracting and retaining registrants and converting registrants into members and could jeopardize our existing affiliate program and relationships with portals, search engines, ISPs and other Internet properties. Failure to compete effectively including by developing and enhancing our services offerings would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. 12 Increasing government regulations, consumer protection laws or taxation could adversely affect our business. We are affected not only by regulations applicable to businesses generally, but also by federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules, regulations and taxes directly applicable to electronic communications, telecommunications and the Internet. Laws and regulations related to the Internet are becoming more prevalent, and new laws and regulations are under consideration in various jurisdictions. Many areas of law affecting the Internet remain unsettled, and it may take years to determine whether and how existing laws such as those governing consumer protection, intellectual property, libel and taxation apply to the Internet. New, or amendments to existing laws and regulations, including laws and regulations that govern, restrict, tax or affect things such as user privacy, the pricing and taxation of goods and services offered over the Internet, the content of websites, access to websites, linking of websites, outgoing email solicitations, consumer protection and the characteristics and quality of products and services offered over the Internet could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Our business must keep pace with rapid technological change to remain competitive. Our business operates in a market characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product and service announcements, enhancements, and changing customer demands. We must adapt to rapidly changing technologies and industry standards and continually improve the speed, performance, features, ease of use and reliability of our services. Introducing new technology into our systems involves numerous technical challenges, requires substantial amounts of capital and personnel resources, and often takes many months to complete. We may not successfully integrate new technology into our websites on a timely basis, which may degrade the responsiveness and speed of our websites. Technology, once integrated, may not function as expected. In addition, the number of people who access the Internet through devices other than desktop and laptop computers, including mobile telephones and other handheld computing devices, has increased dramatically in the past few years. Failure to attract and retain a substantial number of mobile device users to our services, or failure to develop services that are more compatible with mobile communications devices, or failure to generally keep pace with the rapid technological change could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Our services may be interrupted due to problems with our servers, our network hardware and software, or our inability to obtain network capacity. The performance of our server and networking hardware and software infrastructure is critical to our business and reputation and our ability to attract Internet users, advertisers, members and e-commerce partners to our websites and to convert members to subscribers. We have experienced occasional system interruptions as a result of unexpected increases in usage. We cannot assure you we will not incur similar or more serious interruptions in the future. An unexpected or substantial increase in the use of our websites could strain the capacity of our systems, which could lead to a slower response time or system failures. Any slowdowns or system failures could adversely affect the speed and responsiveness of our websites and would diminish the experience for our members and visitors. Further, if usage of our websites substantially increases, we may need to purchase additional servers and networking equipment to maintain adequate data transmission speeds, the availability of which may be limited or the cost of which may be significant. Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or a decrease in the responsiveness of our websites could reduce traffic on our websites and, if sustained or repeated, could impair our reputation and the attractiveness of our brands all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, we rely on many different hardware and software systems. Failure of these systems or inability to rapidly expand our transaction-processing systems and network infrastructure in response to a significant unexpected increase in usage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. The failure to establish and maintain affiliate agreements and relationships could limit the growth of business. We have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, arrangements with affiliates to increase our member base, increase traffic to our websites and enhance our brands. If any of the current agreements are terminated, we may not be able to replace the terminated agreement with an equally beneficial arrangement. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew any of our current agreements when they expire on acceptable terms, if at all. We also do not know whether we will be successful in entering into additional agreements or that any relationships, if entered into, will be on terms favorable to us. Failure to establish and maintain affiliate agreements and relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Our business relies on a number of third-party providers, and their failure to perform or termination of our relationships with them could harm our business. We license technologies from third parties to facilitate our ability to provide our services. Any failure on our part to comply with the terms of these licenses could result in the loss of our rights to continue using the licensed technology, and we could experience difficulties obtaining licenses for alternative technologies. Furthermore, any failure of these third parties to provide these and other services, or errors, failures, interruptions or delays associated with licensed technologies, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. 13 We depend on our merchant and banking relationships, as well as strategic relationships with third parties, who provide us with payment processing solutions. From time to time, VISA and MasterCard increase the fees that they charge processors. We may attempt to pass these increases along to our merchant customers, but this might result in the loss of those customers to our competitors who do not pass along the increases. Our revenues from merchant account processing are dependent upon our continued merchant relationships which are highly sensitive and can be canceled if customer charge-backs escalate and generate concern that the company has held back sufficient funds in reserve accounts to cover these charge-backs. Cancellation by our merchant providers would most likely result in the loss of new customers and lead to a reduction in our revenues. We are exposed to risks associated with credit card fraud and credit payment. Many of our customers use credit cards to pay for our services. We have suffered losses, and may continue to suffer losses, as a result of membership orders placed with fraudulent credit card data, even though the associated financial institution approved payment. Under current credit card practices, a merchant is liable for fraudulent credit card transactions when the merchant does not obtain a cardholder’s signature. A failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would result in significantly higher credit card-related costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Our business may incur liability for information retrieved from or transmitted through its websites or websites linked to it. Because our business publishes or makes various information available on its websites or though linked websites, we may be sued for, or incur liability related to, defamation, civil rights infringement, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, invasion of privacy, personal injury, product liability or other legal claims. Our business also offers email services subjecting us to liabilities or claims relating to unsolicited email or spamming, lost or misdirected messages, security breaches, illegal or fraudulent use of email or interruptions or delays in email service. Liability or expense relating to these types of claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Our business could be significantly impacted by the occurrence of natural disasters such as hurricanes and other catastrophic events. Our primary data center and corporate headquarters are located in Clearwater, Florida and, are therefore, susceptible to damage from hurricanes or other tropical storms. Although we believe we have adequate backup for this data in a secure location, we may not be able to prevent outages and downtime caused by these storms or other events out of our control, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. We may incur liability if we fail to adequately protect personal information. Our business handles personally identifiable information pertaining to our members and visitors residing in the United States as well as foreign countries. Many jurisdictions have adopted privacy, security, and data protection laws and regulations intended to prevent improper use and disclosure of personally identifiable information. In addition, some jurisdictions impose database registration requirements for which significant monetary and other penalties may be imposed for failure to comply. These laws, which are subject to change and may be inconsistent, may impose costly administrative requirements, limit our handling of information, and subject us to increased government oversight and financial liabilities all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Security breaches and inappropriate Internet use could damage our business. Concerns over the security of transactions conducted on the Internet and the privacy of users may inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services generally, and online commerce in particular. Failure to successfully prevent security breaches could significantly harm our business and expose us to lawsuits. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, including customer credit card and personal data, cause interruptions in our operations, or damage our brand and reputation. Breach of our security measures could result in the disclosure of personally identifiable information and could expose us to legal liability. We cannot assure you that our financial systems and other technology resources are completely secure from security breaches or sabotage. We have experienced security breaches and attempts at “hacking.” We may be required to incur significant costs to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Further, any well-publicized compromise of our security or the security of any other Internet provider could deter people from using our services or the Internet to conduct transactions that involve transmitting confidential information or downloading sensitive materials, which might adversely affect our online dating business. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. 14 Computer viruses could damage our business. Computer viruses, worms and similar programs may cause our systems to incur delays or other service interruptions and could damage our reputation and ability to provide our services and expose us to legal liability, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. We depend on key personnel, the loss of whom could harm our business. Our success depends in part on the retention of personnel critical to our combined business operations due to, for example, unique technical skills, management expertise or key business relationships. We may be unable to retain existing management, finance, engineering, sales, customer support, and operations personnel that are critical to our success, which may result in disruption of operations, loss of key business relationships, information, expertise or know-how, unanticipated additional recruitment and training costs, and diminished anticipated benefits of acquisitions, including loss of revenue and profitability. Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our key senior management. Our employment agreements with our key personnel are short-term and on an at-will basis. We do not have key-person insurance on any of our employees. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management team, or of any other key employees, could divert management’s time and attention, increase our expenses and adversely affect our ability to conduct our business efficiently. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. We may be unable to retain our key employees or attract, retain and motivate other highly qualified employees in the future. We have experienced difficulty from time to time in attracting or retaining the personnel necessary to support the growth of our business, and may experience similar difficulties in the future. Demand for our services may decline due to the proliferation of “spam” and software designed to prevent its delivery. Our business may be adversely affected by the proliferation of “spam” and other unwanted Internet solicitations. In response to such proliferation, Internet Service Providers (“ISP’s”) have been adopting technologies, and individual computer users are installing software on their computers that are designed to prevent the delivery of certain Internet advertising, including legitimate solicitations such as those delivered by us. We cannot assure you that the number of ISP’s and individual computer users who employ these or other similar technologies and software will not increase, thereby diminishing the efficacy of our services. In the case that one or more of these technologies are widely adopted or the software widely utilized, demand for our services would decline. Defects in our platform, disruptions in our service or errors in execution could diminish demand for our service and subject us to substantial liability. Our on-demand platform is complex and incorporates a variety of hardware and proprietary and licensed software. Internet-based services such as ours frequently experience disruptions from undetected defects when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. In addition, our recently added text messaging capabilities may hinder the performance of our platform as we have limited experience with dealing with text messaging services. From time to time we have found and corrected defects in our platform. Other defects in our platform, or defects in new features, complementary services or upgrades released in the future, could result in service disruptions for one or more clients. Our clients might use our service in unanticipated ways that cause a service disruption for other clients attempting to access their contact list information and other data stored on our platform. In addition, a client may encounter a service disruption or slowdown due to high usage levels of our service. Because clients use our service for critical business processes, any defect in our platform, any disruption in our service or any error in execution could cause existing or potential clients not to use our service, could harm our reputation, and could subject us to litigation and significant liability for damage to our clients’ businesses. Our quarterly operating results can be difficult to predict and can fluctuate substantially, which could result in volatility in the price of our common stock. Our quarterly revenues and other operating results have varied in the past and are likely to continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our agreements with clients do not require minimum levels of usage or payments, and our revenues therefore fluctuate based on the actual usage of our service each quarter by existing and new clients. Quarterly fluctuations in our operating results also might be due to numerous other factors, including: • our ability to attract new clients, including the length of our sales cycles, or to sell increased usage of our service to existing clients; • technical difficulties or interruptions in our services; • changes in privacy protection and other governmental regulations applicable to the our industry; • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; 15 • the financial condition and business success of our clients; • purchasing and budgeting cycles of our clients; • acquisitions of businesses and products by us or our competitors; • competition, including entry into the market by new competitors or new offerings by existing competitors; • discounts offered to advertisers by upstream advertising networks; • our history of litigation; • our history of uncollectable receivables; • our ability to hire, train and retain sufficient sales, client management and other personnel; • timing of development, introduction and market acceptance of new services or service enhancements by us or our competitors; • concentration of marketing expenses for activities such as trade shows and advertising campaigns; • expenses related to any new or expanded data centers; and • general economic and financial market conditions. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and the occurrence of one or more of them could cause our operating results to vary widely. Because of quarterly fluctuations, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful. We may fail to forecast accurately the behavior of existing and potential clients or the demand for our service. Our expense levels are based, in significant part, on our expectations as to future revenues and are largely fixed in the short term. As a result, we could be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenues. Variability in our periodic operating results could lead to volatility in our stock price as equity research analysts and investors respond to quarterly fluctuations. Moreover, as a result of any of the foregoing or other factors, our operating results might not meet our announced guidance or expectations of investors and analysts, in which case the price of our common stock could decrease significantly. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable to a smaller reporting company. 