Risk Factors section of this Report or other factors. There can be no assurance that cash dividends on the Company’s shares will be declared for years after 2011, what the amounts of such dividends will be or whether such dividends, once declared for a specific period, will continue for any future period, or at all. For additional information on the dividends we have declared for 2011 and historically, please see Item 8 under the heading “Dividends” on page 61 of this Report. 17 Table of Contents Payment of dividends by our subsidiaries in the PRC to our subsidiaries outside of the PRC and to us, as the ultimate parent, is subject to restrictions under PRC law. If we determine to resume our payment of dividends to our shareholders, the PRC tax law could force us to reduce the amount of dividends we have historically paid to our shareholders or possibly eliminate our ability to ever pay them again. Under PRC law, dividends may be paid only out of distributable profits. Distributable profits with respect to our subsidiaries in the PRC refers to after-tax profits as determined in accordance with accounting principles and financial regulations applicable to PRC enterprises (“China GAAP”) less any recovery of accumulated losses and allocations to statutory funds that it is required to make. Any distributable profits that are not distributed in a given year are retained and available for distribution in subsequent years. The calculation of distributable profits under China GAAP differs in many respects from the calculation under U.S. GAAP. As a result, our subsidiaries in PRC may not be able to pay any dividend in a given year as determined under U.S. GAAP. The China’s tax authorities may require changes in determining income of the Company that would limit its ability to pay dividends and make other distributions. Prior to the EIT law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, PRC-organized companies were exempt from withholding taxes with respect to earnings distributions, or dividends, paid to shareholders of PRC companies outside the PRC, such as was the case when our PRC subsidiaries distributed portions of their earnings to our subsidiaries outside of the PRC. However, under the new EIT Law, dividends payable to foreign investors which are derived from sources within the PRC will be subject to income tax at the rate of 5% to 15% by way of withholding unless the foreign investors are companies incorporated in countries which have tax treaty agreements with the PRC and then the rate agreed by both parties will be applied. For example, under the terms of a tax treaty between Hong Kong and the PRC that became effective in December 2006, distributions from our PRC subsidiaries to our Hong Kong subsidiary, will be subject to a withholding tax at a rate ranging from 5% to 10%, depending on the extent of ownership of equity interests held by our Hong Kong subsidiary in our PRC enterprises. As a result of this new PRC withholding tax, amounts available to us in earnings distributions from our PRC enterprises will be reduced. Since we derive most of our profits from our subsidiaries in PRC, the reduction in amounts available for distribution from our PRC enterprises could, depending on the income generated by our PRC subsidiaries, force us to reduce, or possibly eliminate, the dividends we have paid to our shareholders historically. For this reason, or other factors, we may decide not to declare dividends in the future. If we do pay dividends, we will determine the amounts when they are declared and even if we do declare dividends in the future, we may not continue them in any future period. The market price of our shares will likely be subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations. The markets for equity securities have been volatile and the price of our common shares has been and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to variations in operating results, news announcements, trading volume, sales of common shares by our officers, directors and our principal shareholders, customers, suppliers or other publicly traded companies, general market trends both domestically and internationally, currency movements and interest rate fluctuations. Other events, such as the issuance of common shares upon the exercise of our outstanding stock options could also materially and adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares. Further, the stock markets have often experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies and that have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common shares. The concentration of share ownership in our senior management allows them to control or substantially influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. On February 28, 2011, members of our senior management and Board of Directors as a group beneficially owned approximately 25.6% of our common shares. As a result, acting together, they may be able to control and substantially influence the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This ability may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Nam Tai, or causing a change in control of Nam Tai that may not be favored by our other shareholders. Regulatory initiatives in the United States, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act has increased, and may continue to increase the time and costs of certain activities; and any further changes would likely further increase our costs. In the United States, there have been regulatory changes especially in corporate governance practices of public bodies, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, changes in the continued listing rules of the New York Stock Exchange, new accounting pronouncements and there may be new regulatory legislation, rule and accounting changes, which may have an adverse impact on our future financial position and operating results. These regulatory changes and other legislative initiatives have made some activities more time-consuming and have increased financial compliance and administrative costs of the companies that are subject to them, including foreign private issuers like Nam Tai having securities traded in the United States and thereby subject to legislative and regulatory changes in the U.S. capital markets. While these costs are no longer increasing, they may in fact increase in the future. In addition, any future changes in new regulatory legislation and rule and accounting may cause our legal and financial accounting costs to increase. 18 Table of Contents Due to inherent limitations, there can be no assurance that our system of disclosure and internal controls and procedures will be successful in preventing all errors or fraud, or in informing management of all material information in a timely manner. Our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and internal controls and procedures will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system reflects that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been or will be detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur simply because of error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The consolidated and condensed consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the SEC are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets (including intangible assets), liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to changes in the future, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operation. It may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against our management or us. We are a British Virgin Islands holding corporation with subsidiaries in Hong Kong and China. Substantially, all of our assets are located in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and executive officers reside within the PRC or Hong Kong, and substantially all of the assets of these persons are located within the PRC or Hong Kong. It may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside the PRC or Hong Kong upon our directors, or executive officers, including effecting service of process with respect to matters arising under United States federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. The PRC does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States and many other countries. As a result, recognition and enforcement in the PRC of judgments of a court in the United States or many other jurisdictions in relation to any matter, including securities laws, may be difficult or impossible. Furthermore, an original action may be brought in the PRC against our assets and our subsidiaries, our directors and executive officers only if the actions are not required to be arbitrated by PRC law and only if the facts alleged in the complaint give rise to a cause of action under PRC law. In connection with any such original action, a PRC court may award civil liability, including monetary damages. No treaty exists between Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands and the United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. However, the courts of Hong Kong and the British Virgin Islands are generally prepared to accept a foreign judgment as evidence of a debt due. An action may then be commenced in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands for recovery of this debt. A Hong Kong or British Virgin Islands court will only accept a foreign judgment as evidence of a debt due if: • the judgment is for a liquidated amount in a civil matter; • the judgment is final and conclusive; • the judgment is not, directly or indirectly, for the payment of foreign taxes, penalties, fines or charges of a like nature (in this regard, a Hong Kong court is unlikely to accept a judgment for an amount obtained by doubling, trebling or otherwise multiplying a sum assessed as compensation for the loss or damage sustained by the person in whose favor the judgment was given); • the judgment was not obtained by actual or constructive fraud or duress; • the foreign court has taken jurisdiction on grounds that are recognized by the common law rules as to conflict of laws in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands; • the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained were not contrary to natural justice (i.e. the concept of fair adjudication); 19 Table of Contents • the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained, the judgment itself and the enforcement of the judgment are not contrary to the public policy of Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands; • the person against whom the judgment is given is subject to the jurisdiction of the Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands court; and • the judgment is not on a claim for contribution in respect of damages awarded by a judgment, which does not satisfy the criteria stated previously. Enforcement of a foreign judgment in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands may also be limited or affected by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, arrangement and moratorium, or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors’ rights generally, and will be subject to a statutory limitation of time within which proceedings may be brought. Future issuances of preference shares could materially and adversely affect the holders of our common shares or delay or prevent a change of control. Our Board of Directors may amend our Memorandum and Articles of Association without shareholder approval to create from time to time, and issue, one or more classes of preference shares (which are analogous to preferred stock of corporations organized in the United States). While we have never issued any preference shares and we have none outstanding, we could issue preference shares in the future. Future issuance of preference shares could materially and adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common shares, or delay or prevent a change of control. We incurred substantial expenses and costs in privatizing Nam Tai Electronic & Electrical Products Limited. It may require a number of years to realize the benefits from owning 100 percent of NTEEP. In November 2009, we successfully completed the privatization of Nam Tai Electronic & Electrical Products Limited, or NTEEP, by tendering for and acquiring the 25.12 percent of NTEEP that we did not previously own, i.e., NTEEP’s noncontrolling shares, resulting in NTEEP becoming our wholly-owned subsidiary. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we expended approximately $44.3 million to acquire NTEEP’s noncontrolling shares, including approximately $900,000 in professional fees and related expenses. We financed these expenditures with internally generated funds. Although our acquisition of the noncontrolling shares of NTEEP has resulted in cost savings and the elimination of profit sharing with NTEEP noncontrolling shareholders, which have assisted in improving our financial results during the year ended December 31, 2010, future benefits we expect on our financial results from this acquisition will occur only to the extent NTEEP’s operations remain profitable. Even if NTEEP’s future operating results remain profitable, a number of years may be required before the net income from NTEEP’s operations that was attributable to the noncontrolling interests that we acquired and the overhead costs saved from NTEEP’s privatization total to an amount that equals the costs and expenses of acquiring that interest. Our status as a foreign private issuer in the United States exempts us from certain of the reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE limiting the protections and information afforded to investors. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States public companies including: • the rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K or annual reports on Form 10-K; • the sections of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or disclosures required in a proxy statement in accordance with rules therefor promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; • the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; and • the sections of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction (i.e. a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). In addition, because the Company is a foreign private issuer, certain corporate governance standards of the NYSE that are applied to domestic companies listed on that exchange may not be applicable to us. For information regarding whether our corporate governance standards differ from those applied to US domestic issuers, see the discussion under “NYSE listed Company Manual Disclosure” in Item 6, Directors and Senior Management of this Report. Because of these exemptions, investors are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States or traded on the NYSE. See footnote * on page 51 of this Report for 20 Table of Contents information and risks associated with disclosures we have made in this Report or may make in our proxy statements regarding compensation we have paid to our directors and senior managers on an individual basis. 