Risk Factors We may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements. Written forward-looking statements may appear in this document and other documents filed with the SEC, in press releases, in reports to shareholders, on our website, and other documents. The Private Securities Reform Act of 1995 contains a safe harbor for forward-looking statements on which the Company relies in making such disclosures. In connection with this “safe harbor”, we are hereby identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Any such statements are qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements. We are dependent on a few large customers, the loss of any of which could substantially harm our business and operating results. Historically, a substantial percentage of our sales have been made to a small number of customers. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, sales to our customers accounting for 10% or more of our net sales for those years aggregated approximately 46.9%, 57.7% and 63.3%, respectively, of our net sales. During these same years, sales to our 10 largest customers accounted for 84.4%, 85.5% and 86.2%, respectively, of our net sales. We currently depend, and expect to continue to depend, upon a relatively small number of customers for significant percentages of our net revenue and upon their growth, viability and financial stability. If our customers, particularly our major customers, experience a decline in the demand for their products as a result of the prevailing economic environment or other factors, the electronic manufacturing services, or EMS, that we provide to these customers could be curtailed or possibly even terminated. The loss of any one of our largest customers or a substantial reduction in orders from any of them would adversely impact our sales and decrease our net income or cause us to incur losses unless and until we were able to replace the customer or order with one or more of comparable size. In addition, we generate significant account receivables in connection with the EMS we provide to our customers. If one or more of our customers were to become insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay for the services provided by us on a timely basis, or at all, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Such adverse effects could include one or more of the following: a further decline in revenue or net income, a charge for bad debts, a charge for inventory write-offs, a decrease in inventory turns, an increase in days in inventory and an increase in days in accounts receivable. The continuing global economic weakness has adversely affected our revenues, net income and financial condition and can be expected to continue to do so until economic conditions improve. Our industry’s revenue declined in mid-2001 as a result of significant cut backs in customer production requirements, which was consistent with the overall global economic downturn then affecting the world-wide economic climate. Another significant decline occurred beginning in 2008 and continues as consumers and businesses have postponed spending in response to job losses, tighter credit, negative financial news, declines in income or asset values and general uncertainty about global economic conditions. The continuing global economic weakness negatively impacted our operating results beginning in the second half of 2008 and continued through our year ended December 31, 2009. The instability of the markets and weakness of the global economy could continue to effect adversely • the demand for our customers’ products, • the amount, timing and stability of their orders to us, • the financial strength of our customers and suppliers, • their ability or willingness to do business with us, • our willingness to do business with them, • our suppliers’ and customers’ ability to fulfill their obligations to us, • the ability of our customers, our suppliers or us to obtain credit, secure funds or raise capital, and • the prices at which we can sell our products and services. In the prevailing uncertain economic environment, we cannot predict with reasonable accuracy future levels of demand for our customers’ electronics products and therefore cannot predict with reasonable accuracy the future level of demand for our services in manufacturing them. If prevailing economic conditions continue to persist or worsen, our ability to manage inventory levels effectively and collect our receivables could be impaired, our need for cash could increase, and our net revenue, gross margins or results of operations could continue to suffer. Our quarterly and annual operating results are subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a wide variety of factors. Substantially all of our sales are made on purchase order bases, and we are not always able to predict with certainty the timing or magnitude of these orders, especially under the current economic global downturn situation. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to receive any orders from our customers, and our net sales will be harmed if we are unable to obtain a sufficient number of 5 Table of Contents orders from, perform a sufficient number of EMS for, or ship a sufficient number of products to, customers in each quarter. In addition, our customers may cancel, change or delay product purchase orders with little or no advance notice to us. Also, we believe customers may be increasing the number of vendors upon which they rely for manufacturing. Our quarterly and annual operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results during any period. This could result from any one or a combination of factors, such as: • the timing, cancellation or deferral of orders; • adverse changes in global economic conditions, particularly those affecting the electronics industry; • the level of capacity utilization of our manufacturing facilities and associated fixed costs; • the composition of the costs of revenue between materials, labor and manufacturing overhead; • changes in demand for our products or services; • changes in demand in our customers’ end markets, which affect the type of product and related margins; • our customers’ announcement and introduction of new products or new generations of products; • the efficiencies we achieve in managing inventories and fixed assets; • the degree to which we are able to utilize our available manufacturing capacity; • long, national official, seasonal breaks in the PRC, such as the Chinese New Year holidays in our first quarter and the National Day Golden week in our fourth quarter, during which our ability to manufacture products, obtain components and materials from suppliers and receive and process orders from customers are adversely affected; • fluctuations in materials costs and availability of materials; • the life cycles of our customers’ products; • variability in our manufacturing yields; • long lead times and advance financial commitments for our factories and equipment expenditures; • long lead times and advance financial commitments for components required to complete anticipated customer orders; • our effectiveness in managing manufacturing processes, including, interruptions or slowdowns in production and changes in cost and availability of components; • changes in the specific products or quantities our customers order; • extended payment terms demanded by our major customers which, for competitive reasons, we choose to accommodate and result in longer periods for us to receive payment and increase our accounts receivable; • customer insolvencies resulting in bad debt or inventory exposures that are in excess of our reserves; • charges to our operating results because of impairments to the values of long-lived assets or goodwill carried on our balance sheet; and • price reductions caused by competitive pressure. The volume and timing of orders received during a quarter have been, even in normal economic climates, difficult to forecast and fluctuate as a consequence of variation in demand for our customers’ products; our customers’ attempts to manage their inventory; electronic design changes; changes in our customers’ manufacturing strategies; and acquisitions of or consolidations among our customers. Customers generally order based on their forecasts. Further, we do not typically operate with any significant backlog in orders, and this makes it difficult for us to forecast our revenues, plan our production and allocate resources for future periods (including for our capital expenditures). If demand falls below such forecasts or if customers do not control inventories effectively, they may reduce, cancel or postpone shipments of orders. Because of any of the above factors, our operating results in any period should not be considered indicative of results to be expected in any future period, and fluctuations in operating results may also result in fluctuations in the market price of our common shares. Our operating results in future periods may fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. This failure to meet expectations could cause the trading price of our common shares to decline. 6 Table of Contents We face increasing competition, which has had and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our gross margins. Although there are certain barriers to entry into the EMS industry, including technical expertise, substantial capital requirements, difficulties relating to building customer relationships and a large and loyal customer base, the barriers to entry are comparatively low and we are aware that manufacturers in Hong Kong and China may be developing or have developed the required technical capability and customer base to compete with our existing business. Competition in the EMS industry is intense, characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change and competition from major international companies. This intense competition has resulted in pricing pressures and a lower gross margins percentage in certain years. Our gross margin percentage in 2009 matched our lowest gross margin percentage during the last five years. Our gross margin percentage during each of the five years in the period ended December 31, 2009 is shown in the chart below. In the future, we may not be able to improve on, or even maintain, our gross margin percentage at the level of 2009. In addition, consolidation in our industry results in larger and more geographically diverse competitors, which have significant combined resources with which to compete against us, may permit the competitors involved to devote significantly greater resources to the expansion of EMS that they offer and the marketing of existing competitive services to their larger installed customer bases or to new customers attracted to larger global manufacturing organizations. We expect that competition will increase because of these and other industry consolidations and alliances, as well as the emergence of new competitors. If, as a result of these competitive forces, we are compelled to continue to lower our unit prices and are unable to offset the general trend of decreases in gross margins percentage by increasing our sales volumes, our gross margins percentage will continue to decline, our financial position may be harmed and our stock price may fall. We may not be able to compete successfully with our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do. We will face intense competition when we soon begin large-scale production of flexible printed circuit, or FPC, boards and FPC subassemblies. The electronic manufacturing services we provide are available from many independent sources as well as from our current and potential customers with in-house manufacturing capabilities. The following table identifies those companies, which we believe are our principal competitors (listed alphabetically) by category of products or services we provide: Product/Service Competitor EMS • Celestica, Inc. • Flextronics International Ltd. • Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd. • Jabil Circuit, Inc • Sanmina-SCI Corporation Image capturing devices and their modules • Altus Technology Inc (controlled by Foxconn) • Lite-On Technology Corporation • Logitech International S.A. • The Primax Group 7 Table of Contents Product/Service Competitor Mobile phone accessories • Balda-Thong Fook Solutions Sdn., Bhd. • Celestica, Inc. • Elcoteq Network Corp. • Flextronics International Ltd. • Foster Corporation • Foxlink Group • Merry Electronics Co. Ltd. • WKK International (Holdings) Ltd. RF modules • Wavecom SA • WKK International (Holdings) Ltd. Liquid crystal display, or LCD, panels • Elec & Eltek International Holdings Limited • Truly International Holdings Ltd. • Varitronix International Ltd. • Yeebo (International) Holdings Ltd. Telecommunication subassemblies and components • Flextronics International Ltd. • LG. Philips LCD Co., Ltd. • Samsung Electronics • Varitronix International Ltd. Consumer electronic products (calculators, personal organizers and linguistic products) • Computime Limited • Inventec Co. Ltd. • Kinpo Electronics, Inc. • VTech Holdings Limited FPC boards • Ichia Technologies Inc • Nitto Denko (HK) Ltd. • NOK Corporation • Sony Chemical & Information Device Ltd. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, manufacturing, regional shipping capabilities and logistics support and personnel resources than we do and consolidations among our competitors could result in even larger competitors emerging. As a result, we may be unable to compete successfully with these organizations in the future. We expect to begin large-scale production of FPC boards and FPC subassemblies in the first half of 2010. We face intense competition from large FPC board manufacturers located in Taiwan, China, Korea, Singapore, North America, Japan and Europe such as NOK Corporation, Sony Chemical & Information Device Ltd., Nitto Denko (HK) Co. Ltd and Ichia Technologies Inc as well as from large, established EMS providers, such as Flextronics International Ltd. and Foxconn Electronics, Inc., that have developed or acquired, or, like we have, are developing their own FPC manufacturing capabilities, and have extensive experience in electronics assembly. Furthermore, many companies in our target customer base are moving the design and manufacturing of their products to OEM, original engineering manufacturers, in Asia. Such competition could pressure us to provide discounts or lower prices to gain or maintain market share, which could adversely affect our margins and the profitability of our FPC business and could adversely affect our operating results as a whole. In addition, if we are unable to capture significant original design manufactures (“ODMs”) as customers, we may be unable to sustain or grow our FPC business. Cancellations or delays in orders could materially and adversely affect our gross margins and operating results. Our sales to original equipment manufacturer customers (“OEMs”), are primarily based on purchase orders that we receive from time to time rather than firm, long-term purchase commitments. Although it is our general practice to purchase raw materials only upon receiving a purchase order, for certain customers we will occasionally purchase raw materials based on such customers’ rolling forecasts. Further, during times of potential component shortages, we have purchased, and may continue to purchase, raw materials and component parts in the expectation of receiving purchase orders for products that use these components. In the event actual purchase orders are delayed, are not received or are cancelled, we would experience increased inventory levels or possible write-offs of obsolete inventory, write-downs of raw materials inventory or the underutilization of our manufacturing capacity if, for example, we decline other potential orders because we expect to use our capacity to produce orders that are later delayed, reduced or canceled. 8 Table of Contents Our customers face numerous competitive challenges, such as rapid technological change and short life cycles for their products, which may materially adversely affect their business, and also ours. Factors affecting the industries that utilize electronics components in general, and our customers specifically, could seriously harm our customers and, as a result, us. These factors include: • The inability of our customers to adapt to rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards, which result in short product life cycles. • The inability of our customers to develop and market their products, some of which are new and untested, the potential that our customers’ products may become obsolete or the failure of our customers’ products to gain widespread commercial acceptance. • Recessionary periods in our customers’ markets. • Increased competition among our customers and their respective competitors which may result in a loss of business, or a reduction in pricing power, for our customers. • New product offerings by our customers’ competitors may prove to be more successful than our customers’ product offerings. If our customers are unsuccessful in addressing these competitive challenges, or any others that they may face, then their business may be materially adversely affected, and as a result, the demand for our services could decline. Our business has been characterized by a rapidly changing mix of products and customers. Since 2007, we have targeted markets that we believe offer significant growth opportunities and for which OEMs sell complex products that are subject to rapid technological change. We believe that markets involving complex, rapidly changing products offer us opportunities to produce products with higher margins because these products require higher value-added manufacturing services and may also include advanced components. We expect that our current mix of customers and products will continue to change rapidly, and we believe this to be relatively common in the EMS industry. If the products of our customers that we manufacture become obsolete or less profitable and we are not able to diversify our product offerings or customer base in a timely manner, our business would be materially and adversely affected. There may not be a sufficient market for new products that our customers or we develop. Our customers may not develop new products in a timely and cost-effective manner, or the market for products they choose to develop may not grow or be sustained in line with their expectations. This would reduce the overall businesses they outsource, which would seriously affect our business and operating results. Even if we develop capabilities to manufacture new products, there can be no guarantee that a market exists or will develop for such products or that such products will adequately respond to market trends. If we invest resources to develop capabilities to manufacture or expand capabilities for existing and new products, like the investments we made to our existing facilities in Shenzhen and the investments we are making to the new factories we are planning to construct in Wuxi and Guangming Shenzhen, PRC to manufacture FPC boards, FPC subassemblies and other products for which sales do not develop, our business and operating results would be seriously harmed. Even if the market for our services grows, it may not grow at an adequate pace. We must spend substantial amounts to maintain and develop advanced manufacturing processes and engage additional engineering personnel in order to attract new customers and business. We operate in a rapidly changing industry. Technological advances, the introduction of new products and new manufacturing and design techniques could materially and adversely affect our business unless we are able to adapt to those changing conditions. As a result, we are continually required to commit substantial funds for, and significant resources to, engaging additional engineering and other technical personnel and to purchase advanced design, production and test equipment. Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on our ability to continue to provide new manufacturing solutions which, based on time to introduction, cost and performance with the manufacturing capabilities of OEMs and competitive third-party suppliers compare favorably to those offered by our competitors. Our success in attracting new customers and developing new business depends on various factors, including: • utilization of advances in technology; • development of new or improved manufacturing processes for our customers’ products; • delivery of efficient and cost-effective services; and • timely completion of the manufacture of new products. 9 Table of Contents Our business is capital intensive and the failure to generate sufficient cash could require that we curtail capital expenditures. To remain competitive, we must continue to make investments in capital equipment, facilities and technological improvements. We plan to finance our expansion with capital we generate from operations. If we are unable to generate sufficient funds to conduct existing operations and fund our expansion, we may have to curtail our capital expenditures. Any curtailment of our capital expenditures could result in a reduction in net sales, reduction or elimination of our dividends to shareholders, reduced quality of our products, increased manufacturing costs for our products, harm to our reputation, reduced manufacturing efficiencies or other harm to our business. We generally have no written agreements with suppliers to obtain components and our margins and operating results could suffer from increases in component prices. For certain customers, we are responsible for purchasing components used in manufacturing their products. We do not have written agreements with some of our suppliers of components. This typically results in our bearing the risk of component price increases because we may be unable to procure the required materials at a price level necessary to generate anticipated margins from the orders of our customers. Accordingly, increases in component prices could materially and adversely affect our gross margins and operating results. Our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected if our suppliers of needed components fail to meet our needs. At various times, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience, shortages of some of the electronic components that we use, and suppliers of some components lack sufficient capacity to meet the demand for these components. In some cases, supply shortages and delays in deliveries of particular components have resulted in curtailed production, or delays in production, of assemblies using that component, which contributed to an increase in our inventory levels and reduction in our gross margins. We expect that shortages and delays in deliveries of some components will continue. If we are unable to obtain sufficient components on a timely basis, we may experience manufacturing delays, which could harm our relationships with current or prospective customers and reduce our sales. We also depend on a small number of suppliers for certain components that we use in our business. If we were unable to continue to purchase components from these limited source suppliers, our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. We may be required to write down our long-lived assets and a significant impairment charge would adversely affect our operating results. At December 31, 2009, we had $121.4 million in long-lived assets on our balance sheet. The valuation of our long-lived assets requires us to make assumptions about future sales prices and sales volumes for our products. Our assumptions are used to forecast future undiscounted cash flows. Given the current economic environment, uncertainties regarding the duration and severity of these conditions, forecasting future business is difficult and subject to modification. If actual market conditions differ or our forecasts change, we may be required to reassess long-lived assets and could record an impairment charge. Any impairment charge relating to long-lived assets would have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses in such period. If we are required to take a substantial impairment charge, our operating results could be materially adversely affected in the periods and year in which the charge is incurred. The PRC’s labor law could penalize Nam Tai if it needs to make additional workforce reductions. In June 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC enacted new labor law legislation called the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. It formalizes workers’ rights concerning overtime hours, pensions, layoffs, employment contracts and the role of trade unions. Considered one of the strictest labor laws in the world, among other things, this new law requires an employer to conclude an “open-ended employment contract” with any employee who either has worked for the employer for 10 years or more or has had two consecutive fixed-term contracts. An “open-ended employment contract” is in effect a lifetime, permanent contract, which is terminable only in specified circumstances, such as a material breach of the employer’s rules and regulations, or for a serious dereliction of duty. Under the new law, downsizing by 20% or more of each individual entity may occur only under specified circumstances, such as a restructuring undertaken pursuant China’s Enterprise Bankruptcy Law, or where a company suffers serious difficulties in production and/or business operations. Also, if we lay off more than 20 employee at one time, we have to communicate with the labor union of our Company and report to the District Labor Bureau, Although we have successfully reduced our headcount from various of our operating subsidiaries by approximately 1,900 in 2009 in response to the current economic downturn, we may incur much higher costs under China’s labor laws if we are forced to downsize further and accordingly, this new labor law may exacerbate the adverse effect of the economic environment on our financial results and financial condition. Adverse market conditions in the electronics industry could reduce our future sales and earnings per share. Recently, the business environment in the electronics industry has become challenging due to adverse worldwide economic conditions. The conditions have resulted, and may result in the future, in our customers delaying purchases of the products we 10 Table of Contents manufacture for them and our customers placing purchase orders for lower volumes of products than previously experienced or anticipated. We cannot accurately predict future levels of demand for our customers’ electronics products. Consequently, our past operating results, earnings and cash flows may not be indicative of our future operating results, earnings and cash flows, which could be less than past results. We are exposed to impact of global business trends in the mobile phone industry, which could result in even lower gross margins on the mobile phone components and subassemblies we manufacture. During the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 65.3% of our sales were derived from subassemblies and components for mobile phones and mobile phone accessories. Accordingly, any fluctuations in the size of the mobile phone market, market trends, increased competition or pricing pressure of mobile phone industry may affect our business and operating results. For example, the mobile phone industry has been experiencing rapid growth, particularly from emerging economies such as India and China. The growth in these markets, however, does not necessarily translate into increased margins or growing profits as mobile phones sold in developing countries are typically stripped down to basic features and sold for low prices. Competition in developing markets is fierce, even more intense than in countries with advanced economies. Accordingly, we expect that our margins and profitability of the components and assemblies we manufacture for use in mobile phones that our customers target for emerging economies to continue to undergo severe pricing pressures, resulting in lower margins on these products than those we have experienced historically. Our customers are dependent on shipping companies for delivery of our products and interruptions to shipping could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our customers rely on a variety of carriers for product transportation through various world ports. A work stoppage, strike or shutdown of one or more major ports or airports could result in shipping delays materially and adversely affecting our customers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Similarly, an increase in freight surcharges from rising fuel costs or general price increases could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our products are sold internationally and the effect of business, legal and political risks associated with international operations could significantly harm us. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 99.9% of the net book value of our total property, plant and equipment was located in China. We sell our products to customers in Hong Kong, North America, Europe, Japan, China and Southeast Asia. Our international operations are subject to significant political and economic risks and legal uncertainties, including: • changes in economic and political conditions and in governmental policies; • changes in international and domestic customs regulations; • wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts; • changes in tariffs, trade restrictions, trade agreements and taxation; • limitations on the repatriation of funds because of foreign exchange controls; • exposure to political and financial instability; • currency exchange losses, collection difficulties or other country-specific losses; • exposure to fluctuations in the value of local currencies; • changes in value-added tax, or VAT, reimbursement; • imposition of currency exchange controls; and • delays from customs brokers or government agencies. Any of these risks could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our operating results could be negatively impacted by seasonality. Historically, our sales and operating results have been affected by seasonality. Sales of products and components related to mobile phones have generally been lower in the first quarter after peaking fourth quarter. Sales of educational products and home entertainment devices are often higher during the second and third quarters in anticipation of the start of the school year and the Christmas buying season. Similarly, orders for consumer electronics products have historically been lower in the first quarter from both the closing of our factories in China for the Lunar New Year holidays and the general reduction in sales following the holiday season. These sales patterns may not be indicative of future sales performance in future. For example, in 2009 as a result of the prevailing economic turmoil, many of our consumer products customers either postponed or cancelled orders that had been scheduled for delivery for the Christmas holidays, which based on our historical seasonal patterns was unusual. 11 Table of Contents The long, national official, seasonal breaks in the PRC, such as the Chinese lunar New Year holidays occurring in our first quarter, and the National Day Golden week occurring in our fourth quarter, typically affects adversely our ability to manufacture products, obtain components and materials from suppliers and receive and process orders from customers and accordingly our results of operations during these period can be expected to suffer. Our results could be adversely affected with intensifying environmental regulations. Our operations create environmentally sensitive waste, which involves the use and disposal of chemicals, solid and hazardous waste and other toxic and hazardous materials used in the manufacturing process. The disposal of hazardous waste has received increasing attention from Chinese national and local governments and foreign governments and agencies and has been subject to increasing regulation. Currently, relevant Chinese environmental protection laws and regulations impose fines on discharge of waste materials and empower certain environmental authorities to close any facility that causes serious environmental problems. The costs of remedying violations or resolving enforcement actions that might be initiated by governmental authorities could be substantial. Any remediation of environmental contamination would involve substantial expense that could harm our operating results. In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our operations may be subject or the manner in which existing or future laws will be administered or interpreted. Future regulations may be applied to materials, products or activities that have not been subject to regulation previously. The costs of complying with new or more stringent regulations could be significant. We are not aware of any claims related to environmental contamination, and have not accrued any amounts to cover such claims. Global environmental legislation continues to emerge. These laws place increased responsibility and requirements on the “producers” of electronic equipment (i.e. the OEMs) and, in turn, their EMS providers and suppliers. On July 1, 2006, the European Union’s Restriction of Hazardous Substances (“RoHS”) came into effect. As a result, the use of lead and certain other specified substances in electronic products is restricted in the European Union. Where appropriate, we have transitioned our manufacturing processes and interfaced with suppliers and customers to review and secure RoHS compliance. In the event we are not in compliance with the RoHS requirements, we could incur substantial costs, including fines and penalties, as well as liability to our customers. In addition, customers who were deemed exempt for certain substances, or beyond the scope of the legislation, are beginning to be impacted by the changing supply chain. In this respect, we may incur costs related to inventories containing restricted substances. There are also European Union requirements with respect to the collection, recycling and management of waste electronic products and components. Under the European Union’s Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) directive, compliance responsibility rests primarily with OEMs rather than with EMS companies. However, OEMs may turn to EMS companies such as Nam Tai for assistance in meeting their WEEE obligations. Failure by our customers to meet the RoHS or WEEE requirements or obligations could have a negative impact on their businesses and revenues which would adversely impact our financial results. Similar restrictions are being proposed or enacted in other jurisdictions, including China. We cannot currently assess the impact of these legislations on our operations. Power shortages in China could affect our business. We consume substantial amounts of electricity in our manufacturing processes at our production facilities in China. Certain parts of China, including areas where our manufacturing facilities are located, have been subject to power shortages in recent years. We have experienced a number of power shortages at our production facilities in China to date. We are sometimes given advance notice of power shortages and in relation to this we currently have a backup power system. However, there can be no assurance that in the future our backup power system will be completely effective in the event of a power shortage, particularly if that power shortage is over a sustained period of time and/or we are not given advance notice of it. Any power shortage, brownout or blackout for a significant period of time may disrupt our manufacturing, and as a result, may have an adverse impact on our business. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the risks related to our operations and losses. We have not experienced any major accidents in the course of our operations, which have caused significant property damage or personal injuries. However, there is no assurance that we will not experience major accidents in the future. Although we have insurance against various risks, including a business interruption, fidelity and losses or damages to our buildings, machinery, equipment and inventories, the occurrence of certain incidents such as earthquake, war, pandemics, and flood, and the consequences resulting from them, may not be covered adequately, or at all, by the insurance we maintain. We also face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of our products is alleged to have resulted in property damage, bodily injury or other adverse effects. We have only limited product liability insurance covering some of our products. Losses incurred or payments we may be required to make in excess of applicable insurance coverage or for uninsured events or any material claim for which insurance coverage is denied, limited or is not available could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We could become involved in intellectual property disputes. We do not have any patents, licenses, or trademarks material to our business. Instead, we rely on trade secrets, industry expertise and our customers sharing of intellectual property with us. However, there can be no assurance that such intellectual property 12 Table of Contents is not in violation of that belonging to other parties. We may be notified that we are infringing patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights owned by other parties. In the event of an infringement claim, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to develop a non-infringing alternative or to obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing such an alternative or obtaining a license on reasonable terms, if at all. Any litigation, even without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We depend on our executive officers and skilled personnel. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers as well as upon our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, manufacturing and marketing personnel. Generally, our executive officers are bound by employment or non-competition agreements. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able retain our executive officers and we could be seriously harmed by the loss of any of our executive officers. The loss of service of any of these officers or key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business growth and operating results. We maintain no key person insurance on our executive officers. As our operations grow, we also need to recruit and retain additional skilled management personnel and if we are not able to do so, our business and our ability to grow could be harmed. The PRC legal system has inherent uncertainties that could materially and adversely impact our ability to enforce the agreements governing our factories and to do business. We occupy our manufacturing facilities under China land use agreements with agencies of the PRC government and we occupy other facilities under lease agreements with the relevant landlord. The performance of these agreements and the operations of our factories are dependent on our relationship with the local governments in regions, which our facilities are located. Our operations and prospects would be materially and adversely affected by the failure of the local government to honor these agreements or an adverse change in the law governing them. In the event of a dispute, enforcement of these agreements could be difficult in China. Unlike the United States, China has a civil law system based on written statutes in which judicial decisions have limited precedential value. The government of China has enacted laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, its experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited, and our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes in China is unpredictable. These matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the PRC government, and forces and factors unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. Political or trade controversies between China and the United States could harm our operating results or depress our stock price. Differences between the United States and PRC governments on some political issues continue occasionally to color the relationship. These occasional controversies could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Political or trade friction between the two countries could also materially and adversely affect the market price of our shares, whether or not they adversely affect our business. The economy of China has been experiencing significant growth, leading to some inflation. If the government tries to control inflation by traditional means of monetary policy or returns to planned economic techniques, our business will suffer a reduction in sales growth and expansion opportunities. The rapid growth of the PRC economy has historically resulted in high levels of inflation. If the government tries to control inflation, it may have an adverse effect on the business climate and growth of private enterprise in the PRC. An economic slowdown may increase our costs. If inflation is allowed to proceed unchecked, our costs would likely increase, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to increase our prices to an extent that would offset the increase in our expenses. Changes to PRC tax laws and heightened efforts by the China’s tax authorities to increase revenues have subjected us to greater taxes. Under PRC law before 2008, we were afforded a number of tax concessions by, and tax refunds from, China’s tax authorities on a substantial portion of our operations in China by reinvesting all or part of the profits attributable to our PRC manufacturing operations. However, on March 16, 2007, the Chinese government enacted a unified enterprise income tax law or EIT, which became effective on January 1, 2008. Prior to the EIT, , as a foreign invested enterprise, or “FIE”, located in Shenzhen of the PRC, our PRC subsidiaries enjoyed a national income tax rate of 15% and were exempted from the 3% local income tax. The preferential tax treatment to our subsidiaries in the PRC of qualifying for tax refunds as a result of reinvesting their profits earned in previous years in the PRC also expired on January 1, 2008. Under the EIT, apart from those qualified as high-tech enterprises, most domestic enterprises and FIEs will be subject to a single PRC enterprise income tax rate of 25% in year 2012 and afterward. For information on the new EIT rates as announced by the PRC’s State Council for the transition period until year 2012, please see the table in Item 5, Operating and Financial Review and Prospects in this Report. We base our tax position upon the anticipated nature and conduct of our business and upon our 13 Table of Contents understanding of the tax laws of the various administrative regions and countries in which we have assets or conduct activities. However, our tax position is subject to review and possible challenge by taxing authorities and to possible changes in law, which may have retroactive effect. We cannot determine in advance the extent to which some jurisdictions may require us to pay taxes or make payments in lieu of taxes. We appear to have been a passive foreign investment company for 2009 and based on our current operations and market conditions, we may be a passive foreign investment company for 2010, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to some U.S. investors. Based upon an analysis of the book value of our assets and the total market value, or market cap, of our shares at the end of each quarter during 2009, we appear to be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, by the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The determination of whether we are a PFIC in any taxable year is made on an annual basis and depends on the composition of our income and assets. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC if, after applying relevant look-through rules with respect to the income and assets of subsidiaries, either (i) 75% or more of our gross income for such taxable year is passive income, or (ii) 50% or more of the average percentage of our assets during such taxable year either produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income (the “PFIC asset test”). Accordingly, we could be classified as a PFIC. We have not conducted an appraisal of the actual fair market value of our assets. If we conducted such appraisal, it might not result in a fair market value of our assets being sufficiently greater than the aggregate value of our market cap to avoid our classification as a PFIC, and, even if it did so result, such appraisal may not be enough to establish to the satisfaction of the IRS that the fair market value of our assets was sufficiently greater than the aggregate value of our market cap in order to avoid our classification as a PFIC. Our characterization as a PFIC during any year could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for U.S. investors. For example, if we were a PFIC in 2009 or in any other taxable year, U.S. investors who owned our common shares generally would be subject to increased U.S. tax liabilities and reporting requirements, and pledges of our common shares would be considered sales for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Given the complexity of the issues regarding our classification as a PFIC, U.S. investors are urged to consult their own tax advisors for guidance as to our PFIC status. For further discussion of the adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences of from the classification as a PFIC see “Taxation — United States Federal Income Tax Consequences beginning on page 66 of this Report. Changes in foreign exchange regulations of China could adversely affect our operating results. Some of our earnings are denominated in yuan, the base unit of the RMB. The People’s Bank of China and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) regulate the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies. Under the current unified floating exchange rate system, the People’s Bank of China publishes a daily exchange rate for RMB based on the previous day’s dealings in the inter-bank foreign exchange market. Financial institutions may enter into foreign exchange transactions at exchange rates within an authorized range above or below the exchange rate published by the People’s Bank of China according to the market conditions. Since 1996, the PRC government has issued a number of rules, regulations and notices regarding foreign exchange control designed to provide for greater convertibility of RMB. Under such regulations, any FIE must establish a “current account” and a “capital account” with a bank authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Currently, FIEs are able to exchange RMB into foreign exchange currencies at designated foreign exchange banks for settlement of current account transactions, which include payment of dividends based on the board resolutions authorizing the distribution of profits or dividends of the company concerned, without the approval of SAFE. Conversion of RMB into foreign currencies for capital account transactions, which include the receipt and payment of foreign exchange for loans and capital contributions, continues to be subject to limitations and requires the approval of SAFE. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient foreign exchange to make relevant payments or satisfy other foreign exchange requirements in the future. 14 Table of Contents Changes in currency exchange rates involving the Japanese yen or RMB have and could continue to significantly affect our financial results. Our financial results have been affected by currency fluctuations, resulting in total foreign exchange gains or losses during each of our three fiscal years in the period ended December 31, 2009 as indicated in the following chart: We sell most of our products in U.S. dollars and pay our expenses in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen, Hong Kong dollars and RMB. While we face a variety of risks associated with changes among the relative value of these currencies, we believe the most significant exchange risk presently results from our costs and expenses we pay, and material purchases we make, in Japanese yen and expenses we pay in RMB. Approximately 11%, 16% and 18% of our total costs and expenses and 8%, 12% and 14% of our material costs were in Japanese yen during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively, but sales made in Japanese yen accounted for only 7%, 9% and 12% respectively, of our total net sales for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Japanese yen to the U.S. dollar affect our gross margins and financial results. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2008, the exchange rate of the Japanese yen to the U.S. dollar fluctuated above the rate at December 31, 2007, increasing approximately 24% from the level at the end of December 31, 2007. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the reverse occurred as the exchange rate of the Japanese yen to the U.S. dollar fluctuated below the rate at December 31, 2008, decreasing approximately 2.9% from the level at the end of December 31, 2008. These fluctuations resulted in an increase in our material costs during 2008 and a decrease in our material costs during 2009. However, the fluctuations did not have a material net impact on our financial results for either 2008 or 2009. A future appreciation of the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar would increase our costs when translated into U.S. dollars and could adversely affect our margins and financial results unless we made sufficient sales in Japanese yen to offset against material purchases we made in Japanese yen. Approximately 13%, 16% and 18% of our total costs and expenses and 4%, 6% and 9% of our material costs were in RMB during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. Between 1994 and July 2005, the market and official RMB rates were unified and the value of the RMB was essentially pegged to the U.S. dollar and was relatively stable. On July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China adjusted the exchange rate of RMB to the U.S. dollar by linking the RMB to a basket of currencies and simultaneously setting the exchange rate of RMB to U.S. dollars, from 1:8.27, to a narrow band of around 1:8.11, resulting in an approximate 1.9% appreciation in the value of the RMB against the U.S. dollars at the end of 2005 from the July 21, 2005. The following chart illustrates the fluctuations of the RMB to the US dollar by showing the exchange ratio at the end of each quarter in the period from July 21, 2005 to December 31, 2009. 15 Table of Contents (1) RMB (yuan) to US dollar data presented in this chart were derived from the historical currency converter available at http://forex-history.net. (2) If the end of a quarter fell on a Saturday or Sunday, datum is provided as of the previous Friday. At the end of each of the three years after 2005, the RMB appreciated from the exchange ratio at the beginning of the year: approximately 3.3% at the end of 2006, approximately 6.4% at the end of 2007 and approximately 6.6% at the end of 2008. The exchange ratio of RMB to the US dollar was 1:6.823 at December 31, 2008 compared to 1:6.827 at December 31, 2009, indicating that there was virtually no change in the exchange ratio during 2009. The US dollar actually appreciated to the RMB, albeit very slightly, from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009, reversing the trend of RMB to US Dollar appreciation that has occurred since July 21, 2005. However, because of the prevailing global economic recession, it is uncertain whether the relative stability in the currency exchange rates experienced during 2009 can be expected to continue following an economic recovery. In any event, if the RMB resumes its appreciation to the U.S. dollar, our operating costs would increase and our financial results would be adversely affected. If we determined to pass onto our customers through price increases the effect of increases in the RMB and Japanese yen relative to the U.S. dollars, it would make our products more expensive in global markets, such as the United States and the European Union. This could result in the loss of customers, who may seek, and be able to obtain, products and services comparable to those we offer in lower-cost regions of the world. If we did not increase our prices to pass on the effect of increases in the RMB and Japanese yen relative to the U.S. dollars, our margins and profitability would suffer. We are exposed to intangible asset risk We have recorded intangible assets, which are mainly represented by goodwill, which are attributable to business acquisitions and reorganization. We are required to perform goodwill impairment test at least on an annual basis and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. In 2008, after performing an impairment analysis, we have written off about $17.3 million goodwill in the fourth quarter. As of December 31, 2009, goodwill with approximately $3.0 million remains on our books, which continues to be subject to annual and periodic evaluations. We may determine that further write-down may be necessary, which could adversely affect to our operating results and financial position. 16 Table of Contents The market price of our shares will likely be subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations. The markets for equity securities have been volatile and the price of our common shares has been and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to variations in operating results, news announcements, trading volume, sales of common shares by our officers, directors and our principal shareholders, customers, suppliers or other publicly traded companies, general market trends both domestically and internationally, currency movements and interest rate fluctuations. Other events, such as the issuance of common shares upon the exercise of our outstanding stock options could also materially and adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares. Further, the stock markets have often experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies and that have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common shares. The concentration of share ownership in our senior management allows them to control or substantially influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. On February 28, 2010, members of our senior management and Board of Directors as a group beneficially owned approximately 24.6% of our common shares. As a result, acting together, they may be able to control and substantially influence the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This ability may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Nam Tai, or causing a change in control of Nam Tai that may not be favored by our other shareholders. Implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system could disrupt our operations and cause unanticipated increases in our costs. During 2008 and 2009, several of our subsidiaries that are engaged in manufacturing began installing a new enterprise resource planning, or ERP, software system which the Company acquired from SAP Hong Kong Co., Ltd. The ERP software system includes related integrated applications for managing worldwide procurement and logistics business processes, customer relationships, product life-cycle and supplier relationships. We have invested, and will continue to invest, significant capital and human resources in the implementation of the ERP system, which may be disruptive to our underlying business. Any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of the new ERP system, particularly any disruptions, delays or deficiencies that impact our operations, could adversely affect our ability to process customer orders, ship products, provide services and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations, file SEC reports in a timely manner and otherwise run our business. Further, as we are dependent upon our ability to gather and transmit accurate information to key decision makers, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected if our database infrastructure does not allow us to transmit accurate information, even for a short period of time. Even if we do not encounter these adverse effects, the implementation of the new ERP system may be much more costly than we anticipated. If we are unable to successfully implement the new ERP system as planned during 2010, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted. We have experienced a number of challenges during the implementation of this project that have caused delays and affected our operations. Although to date our financial results have not been materially affected by the implementation of our new ERP system, future disruptions caused by its implementation could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Regulatory initiatives in the United States, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act has increased, and may continue to increase the time and costs of certain activities; and any further changes would likely further increase our costs. In the United States, there have been regulatory changes especially in corporate governance practices of public bodies, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, changes in the continued listing rules of the New York Stock Exchange, new accounting pronouncements and there may be new regulatory legislation, rule and accounting changes, which may have an adverse impact on our future financial position and operating results. These regulatory changes and other legislative initiatives have made some activities more time-consuming and have increased financial compliance and administrative costs of the companies that are subject to them, including foreign private issuers like Nam Tai having securities traded in the United States and thereby subject to legislative and regulatory changes in the U.S. capital markets. While these costs are no longer increasing, they may in fact increase in the future. In addition, any future changes in new regulatory legislation and rule and accounting may cause our legal and financial accounting costs to increase. Due to inherent limitations, there can be no assurance that our system of disclosure and internal controls and procedures will be successful in preventing all errors or fraud, or in informing management of all material information in a timely manner. Our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and internal controls and procedures will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and 17 Table of Contents operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system reflects that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been or will be detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur simply because of error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The consolidated and condensed consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the SEC are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets (including intangible assets), liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to changes in the future, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operation. It may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against our management or us. We are a British Virgin Islands holding corporation with subsidiaries in Hong Kong and China. Substantially, all of our assets are located in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and executive officers reside within the PRC or Hong Kong, and substantially all of the assets of these persons are located within the PRC or Hong Kong. It may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside the PRC or Hong Kong upon our directors, or executive officers, including effecting service of process with respect to matters arising under United States federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. The PRC does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States and many other countries. As a result, recognition and enforcement in the PRC of judgments of a court in the United States or many other jurisdictions in relation to any matter, including securities laws, may be difficult or impossible. Furthermore, an original action may be brought in the PRC against our assets and our subsidiaries, our directors and executive officers only if the actions are not required to be arbitrated by PRC law and only if the facts alleged in the complaint give rise to a cause of action under PRC law. In connection with any such original action, a PRC court may award civil liability, including monetary damages. No treaty exists between Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands and the United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. However, the courts of Hong Kong and the British Virgin Islands are generally prepared to accept a foreign judgment as evidence of a debt due. An action may then be commenced in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands for recovery of this debt. A Hong Kong or British Virgin Islands court will only accept a foreign judgment as evidence of a debt due if: • the judgment is for a liquidated amount in a civil matter; • the judgment is final and conclusive; • the judgment is not, directly or indirectly, for the payment of foreign taxes, penalties, fines or charges of a like nature (in this regard, a Hong Kong court is unlikely to accept a judgment for an amount obtained by doubling, trebling or otherwise multiplying a sum assessed as compensation for the loss or damage sustained by the person in whose favor the judgment was given); • the judgment was not obtained by actual or constructive fraud or duress; • the foreign court has taken jurisdiction on grounds that are recognized by the common law rules as to conflict of laws in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands; • the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained were not contrary to natural justice (i.e. the concept of fair adjudication); • the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained, the judgment itself and the enforcement of the judgment are not contrary to the public policy of Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands; 18 Table of Contents • the person against whom the judgment is given is subject to the jurisdiction of the Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands court; and • the judgment is not on a claim for contribution in respect of damages awarded by a judgment, which does not satisfy the criteria stated previously. Enforcement of a foreign judgment in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands may also be limited or affected by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, arrangement and moratorium, or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors’ rights generally, and will be subject to a statutory limitation of time within which proceedings may be brought. Future issuances of preference shares could materially and adversely affect the holders of our common shares or delay or prevent a change of control. Our Board of Directors may amend our Memorandum and Articles of Association without shareholder approval to create from time to time, and issue, one or more classes of preference shares (which are analogous to preferred stock of corporations organized in the United States). While we have never issued any preference shares and we have none outstanding, we could issue preference shares in the future. Future issuance of preference shares could materially and adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common shares, or delay or prevent a change of control. We incurred substantial expenses and costs in privatizing Nam Tai Electronic & Electrical Products Limited. It may require a number of years to realize the benefits from owning 100 percent of NTEEP. In November 2009, we successfully completed the privatization of Nam Tai Electronic & Electrical Products Limited, or NTEEP, by tendering for and acquiring the 25.12 percent of NTEEP that we did not previously own, i.e., NTEEP’s noncontrolling shares, resulting in NTEEP becoming our wholly-owned subsidiary. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we expended approximately $44.3 million to acquire NTEEP’s noncontrolling shares, including approximately $900,000 in professional fees and related expenses. We financed these expenditures with internally generated funds. Although we expect that our future financial results will benefit by our acquisition of the outstanding noncontrolling shares of NTEEP because of cost savings and the elimination of sharing of NTEEP’s profits with the noncontrolling shareholders, the primary benefit expected on our financial results will occur only to the extent NTEEP’s operations remain profitable. Even if NTEEP’s future operating results remain profitable, a number of years may be required before the net income from NTEEP’s operations that was attributable to the noncontrolling interests that we acquired and the overhead costs saved from NTEEP’s privatization total to an amount that equals the costs and expenses of acquiring that interest. Our status as a foreign private issuer in the United States exempts us from certain of the reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE limiting the protections and information afforded to investors. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States public companies including: • the rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K or annual reports on Form 10-K; • the sections of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or disclosures required in a proxy statement in accordance with rules therefor promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; • the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; and • the sections of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction (i.e. a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). In addition, because the Company is a foreign private issuer, certain corporate governance standards of the NYSE that are applied to domestic companies listed on that exchange may not be applicable to us. For information regarding whether our corporate governance standards differ from those applied to US domestic issuers, see the discussion under “NYSE listed Company Manual Disclosure” in Item 6, Directors and Senior Management of this Report. Because of these exemptions, investors are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States or traded on the NYSE. See footnote * on page 53 of this Report for 19 Table of Contents information and risks associated with disclosures we have made in this Report or may make in our proxy statements regarding compensation we have paid to our directors and senior managers on an individual basis. We have determined not to pay dividends in 2010 and may not pay dividends in the future. Although we had a long history of dividend payment before 2009, we may not be able to declare them or may decide not to declare them in the future. For example, in February 2009, our board of directors determined not to declare dividends in 2009 and in February 2010 our board determined not to declare dividends in 2010. These decisions were made in order to maintain cash reserves during the continuing economic turmoil. If dividends are to be declared in the future, we will determine the amounts and when they are to be declared. Even if dividends are declared in the future, we may not continue them in any future period. Payment of dividends by our subsidiaries in the PRC to our subsidiaries outside of the PRC and to us, as the ultimate parent, is subject to restrictions under PRC law. If we determine to resume our payment of dividends to our shareholders, the PRC tax law could force us to reduce the amount of dividends we have historically paid to our shareholders or possibly eliminate our ability to ever pay them again. Under PRC law, dividends may be paid only out of distributable profits. Distributable profits with respect to our subsidiaries in the PRC refers to after-tax profits as determined in accordance with accounting principles and financial regulations applicable to PRC enterprises (“China GAAP”) less any recovery of accumulated losses and allocations to statutory funds that it is required to make. Any distributable profits that are not distributed in a given year are retained and available for distribution in subsequent years. The calculation of distributable profits under China GAAP differs in many respects from the calculation under U.S. GAAP. As a result, our subsidiaries in PRC may not be able to pay any dividend in a given year as determined under U.S. GAAP. The China’s tax authorities may require changes in determining income of the Company that would limit its ability to pay dividends and make other distributions. Prior to the EIT law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, PRC-organized companies were exempt from withholding taxes with respect to earnings distributions, or dividends, paid to shareholders of PRC companies outside the PRC, such as was the case when our PRC subsidiaries distributed portions of their earnings to our subsidiaries outside of the PRC. However, under the new EIT Law, dividends payable to foreign investors which are derived from sources within the PRC will be subject to income tax at the rate of 5% to 15% by way of withholding unless the foreign investors are companies incorporated in countries which have tax treaty agreements with the PRC and then the rate agreed by both parties will be applied. For example, under the terms of a tax treaty between Hong Kong and the PRC that became effective in December 2006, distributions from our PRC subsidiaries to our Hong Kong subsidiary, will be subject to a withholding tax at a rate ranging from 5% to 10%, depending on the extent of ownership of equity interests held by our Hong Kong subsidiary in our PRC enterprises. As a result of this new PRC withholding tax, amounts available to us in earnings distributions from our PRC enterprises will be reduced. Since we derive most of our profits from our subsidiaries in PRC, the reduction in amounts available for distribution from our PRC enterprises could, depending on the income generated by our PRC subsidiaries, force us to reduce, or possibly eliminate, the dividends we have paid to our shareholders historically. For this reason, or other factors, we may decide not to declare dividends in the future. If we do pay dividends, we will determine the amounts when they are declared and even if we do declare dividends in the future, we may not continue them in any future period. 