ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk and should be considered only by those persons who are able to afford a loss of their entire investment. In evaluating our business, prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors. We are subject to risks frequently encountered by companies in the Internet marketing and advertising industry. Our prospects for financial and operational success must be considered in light of the risks frequently encountered by companies in the Internet marketing and advertising industry. These risks include the need to: · attract new clients and maintain current client relationships; · achieve effective advertising campaign results for our clients; · continue to expand the number of services and technologies we offer; · successfully implement our business model, which is evolving; · respond to pricing pressure in some of our lines of business; · maintain our reputation and build trust with our clients; · identify, attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; · accurately measure impressions, searches, clicks, or other online actions for our advertisers, publishers, or partners; · adapt to changes in online advertising, email, and other filtering software; and · manage online credit card billing and customer service concerns. If we do not successfully address these risks, our business could suffer. 6 Our revenue, expenses and operating results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter for several reasons, including: · addition of new clients or loss of current clients; · seasonal fluctuations in advertising spending; · timing variations on the part of advertisers with regard to implementing advertising campaigns; · changes in the availability and pricing of advertising space; · timing and amount of our costs; · costs related to any possible future acquisitions of technologies or businesses; · changes in revenue contribution by our business lines, which historically have had varying operating margins; · timing in the completion of web development projects or in the recognition of revenue on those projects; · fluctuations in our stock price which may impact the amount of stock-based compensation expense we are required to record; and · deterioration in the credit quality of our accounts receivable and an increase in the related provisions. Our limited operating history and relatively new business model in emerging and rapidly evolving markets make it difficult to evaluate our future prospects. We have only a limited operating history and have lost money during six of the last eight years ended December 31, 2008. There is no assurance we will generate net income in future periods. Failure to generate net income could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. We may be unable to successfully divest businesses. There is no assurance we will be able to divest operations within our discontinued operations. Failure to successfully divest discontinued operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Our success depends on our ability to continue and expand relationships with other internet media content, advertising and product providers. The Internet includes an ever-increasing number of businesses that offer and market consumer products and services. Advertising providers allow us to generate advertising revenue from our and our affiliates’ websites, as well as profit sharing arrangements for joint effort marketing programs. We expect that with the increasing number of entrants into the Internet commerce arena, advertising costs and joint effort marketing programs will become more competitive. This competitive environment might prevent us from satisfactorily executing profit generating advertising and joint effort marketing programs in the future. This competitive environment may also prevent us from providing content and product and service providers from marketing their products and services through our or our affiliates’ we bsites. If we fail to continue establishing new, and maintain and expand existing, profitable advertising and joint marketing arrangements, we may suffer substantial adverse consequences to our financial condition and results of operations. Our loan agreement with Wachovia Bank, N.A., contains covenants that can restrict our ability to borrow funds. Our loan agreement with Wachovia Bank, N.A. (Wachovia) contains certain financial covenants as well as covenants that restrict our ability to borrow based on past financial results. If our financial results continue to deteriorate it will further reduce our borrowing base with Wachovia and may force us to obtain funds at a higher cost. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially impacted by economic conditions and related fluctuations in customer demand for marketing and technology services. Our business and financial condition depends on the health of the general economy. Our revenue and profits are driven by demand for our products and services. The United States economy is currently in a recession and a continuing deterioration in economic activity in the United States could adversely affect demand for our products and services, which may materially and adversely impact our revenue and profitability. During economic cycles in which many companies are experiencing financial difficulties or uncertainty, customers and potential customers may cancel or delay spending on marketing and other business initiatives. In particular, the economic downturn that began in 2008 may cause our customers and potential customers to cancel or delay marketing initia tives for 7 which they have engaged us. If the current downturn in economic conditions continues or conditions worsen, the financial condition of our customers may be adversely affected, which could result in a reduced demand for our products and services, lower revenues and operating margins resulting from price reduction pressures for our services, and payment and collection issues with our customers. Any of these events could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have agreed, and may agree in the future, to pay additional amounts in connection with acquisitions. As part of the agreements to acquire certain of our operating subsidiaries, we agreed to pay the stockholders of these entities additional consideration, or contingent payments, if the financial performance of these respective entities satisfies certain financial hurdles. As of December 31, 2008, the cash portion of these potential contingent payments totaled approximately $6.4 million. There is no assurance that we will have cash available to pay these amounts if these financial hurdles are satisfied. Thus, we may have to borrow additional monies or sell additional equity to raise the needed funds, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. We depend on a single customer for a significant portion of our revenues. We received approximately 30.7% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008 from a single customer. The loss of that customer or a material change in the revenue or gross profit generated by that customer could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We lack long-term contracts with clients. Few of our clients retain us under contracts longer than twelve months. As a result, our revenues may be difficult to predict and may vary significantly. Because we sometimes incur costs based on expectations of future revenues, our failure to predict future revenues accurately could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Our brands are not well known. We have not been able to develop widespread awareness of our brands. Moreover, our brands may be closely associated with the success or failure of some of our Internet clients, some of whom are pursuing unproven business models in competitive markets. Lack of brand awareness or the failure or difficulty of one of our clients may damage our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. The telecommunications industry is a regulated industry. Amendments to current regulations could disrupt or adversely affect the profitability of our business. In addition, if any of our current agreements with telecommunications providers are terminated, we may not be able to replace the terminated agreement on favorable terms and conditions, if at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew any of our current agreements when they expire or expand our agreements on favorable terms, if at all, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Growth of our business depends upon increased adoption of the Internet as a means for commerce. The growth of our business depends heavily on the continued use and acceptance of the Internet as a means for commerce. If commercial use of the Internet does not continue to grow, or grows more slowly than expected, our business and prospects would be seriously harmed. Individuals and businesses may reject the Internet as a viable commercial medium or marketing tool. Failure of the Internet to grow as a means of commerce would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. We compete with many companies, some of whom are more established and better capitalized than us. We compete with a variety of companies on a worldwide basis both through the Internet and in traditional markets. Some of these companies are larger and better capitalized than us. There are also few barriers to entry in our markets and thus above average profit margins will likely attract additional competitors. Our competitors may develop services that are superior to, or have greater market acceptance than our services. For example, many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and larger customer bases than us. These factors may allow our competitors to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Our competitors may engage in more extensive research and development efforts, undertake more far - -reaching marketing campaigns and adopt more aggressive pricing policies which may allow them to build larger registrant and membership bases. In addition, current and potential competitors are making, and are expected to continue to make, strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative, and, in some cases, exclusive 8 relationships with significant companies or competitors to expand their businesses or to offer more comprehensive products and services. To the extent these competitors or potential competitors establish exclusive relationships with major portals, search engines and ISPs, our ability to reach potential members through online advertising may be restricted. Any of these competitors could cause us difficulty in attracting and retaining registrants and converting registrants into members and could jeopardize our existing affiliate program and relationships with portals, search engines, ISPs and other Internet properties. Failure to compete effectively including by developing and enhancing our services offerings would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Increasing government regulations or taxation could adversely affect our business. We are affected not only by regulations applicable to businesses generally, but also by federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules, regulations and taxes directly applicable to electronic communications, telecommunications and the Internet. Laws and regulations related to the Internet are becoming more prevalent, and new laws and regulations are under consideration in various jurisdictions. Many areas of law affecting the Internet remain unsettled, and it may take years to determine whether and how existing laws such as those governing consumer protection, intellectual property, libel and taxation apply to the Internet. New, or amendments to existing laws and regulations, including laws and regulations that govern, restrict, tax or affect things such as user privacy, the pricing and taxation of goods and services offered over the Internet, the content of webs ites, access to websites, linking of websites, outgoing email solicitations, consumer protection and the characteristics and quality of products and services offered over the Internet could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. We need to attract and retain a large number of paying members on an ongoing basis. Our Direct Segment must attract and retain a large number of paying members. To do so, we must continue to invest significant resources in order to enhance our existing products and services and to introduce new high-quality products and services. There is no assurance we will have the resources, financial or otherwise, required to enhance or develop services. Further, if we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our products and services on a timely basis, we may lose existing members and may fail to attract new registrants. Failure to enhance or develop services or to respond to the needs of our members in an effective or timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Our member acquisition costs may increase significantly. The member acquisition costs of our direct marketing businesses depend in part upon our ability to purchase advertising at a reasonable cost. Advertising costs vary over time, depending upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Historically, we have used online advertising as the primary means of marketing our services. In general, the costs of online advertising have increased substantially and are expected to continue to increase as long as the demand for online advertising remains robust. We may not be able to pass these costs on in the form of higher user fees. Continuing increases in advertising costs could thus have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Our business must keep pace with rapid technological change to remain competitive. Our business operates in a market characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product and service announcements, enhancements, and changing customer demands. We must adapt to rapidly changing technologies and industry standards and continually improve the speed, performance, features, ease of use and reliability of our services. Introducing new technology into our systems involves numerous technical challenges, requires substantial amounts of capital and personnel resources, and often takes many months to complete. We may not successfully integrate new technology into our websites on a timely basis, which may degrade the responsiveness and speed of our websites. Technology, once integrated, may not function as expected. In addition, the number of people who access the Internet through devices other than desktop and laptop computer s, including mobile telephones and other handheld computing devices, has increased dramatically in the past few years. Failure to attract and retain a substantial number of mobile device users to our services, or failure to develop services that are more compatible with mobile communications devices, or failure to generally keep pace with the rapid technological change could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. 9 Our services may be interrupted due to problems with our servers, our network hardware and software, or our inability to obtain network capacity. The performance of our server and networking hardware and software infrastructure is critical to our business and reputation and our ability to attract Internet users, advertisers, members and e-commerce partners to our websites and to convert members to subscribers. We have experienced occasional system interruptions as a result of unexpected increases in usage. We cannot assure you we will not incur similar or more serious interruptions in the future. An unexpected or substantial increase in the use of our websites could strain the capacity of our systems, which could lead to a slower response time or system failures. Any slowdowns or system failures could adversely affect the speed and responsiveness of our websites and would diminish the experience for our members and visitors. Further, if usage of our websi tes substantially increases, we may need to purchase additional servers and networking equipment to maintain adequate data transmission speeds, the availability of which may be limited or the cost of which may be significant. Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or a decrease in the responsiveness of our websites could reduce traffic on our websites and, if sustained or repeated, could impair our reputation and the attractiveness of our brands all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, we rely on many different hardware and software systems. Failure of these systems or inability to rapidly expand our transaction-processing systems and network infrastructure in response to a significant unexpected increase in usage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. The failure to establish and maintain affiliate agreements and relationships could limit the growth of business. We have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, arrangements with affiliates to increase our member base, increase traffic to our websites and enhance our brands. If any of the current agreements are terminated, we may not be able to replace the terminated agreement with an equally beneficial arrangement. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew any of our current agreements when they expire on acceptable terms, if at all. We also do not know whether we will be successful in entering into additional agreements or that any relationships, if entered into, will be on terms favorable to us. Failure to establish and maintain affiliate agreements and relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Our business relies on a number of third-party providers, and their failure to perform or termination of our relationships with them could harm our business. We license technologies from third parties to facilitate our ability to provide our services. Any failure on our part to comply with the terms of these licenses could result in the loss of our rights to continue using the licensed technology, and we could experience difficulties obtaining licenses for alternative technologies. Furthermore, any failure of these third parties to provide these and other services, or errors, failures, interruptions or delays associated with licensed technologies, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. We depend on our merchant and banking relationships, as well as strategic relationships with third parties, who provide us with payment processing solutions. From time to time, VISA and MasterCard increase the fees that they charge processors. We may attempt to pass these increases along to our merchant customers, but this might result in the loss of those customers to our competitors who do not pass along the increases. Our revenues from merchant account processing are dependant upon our continued merchant relationships which are highly sensitive and can be canceled if customer charge-backs escalate and generate concern that the company has held back sufficient funds in reserve accounts to cover these charge-backs. Cancellation by our merchant providers would most likely result in the loss of new customers and lead to a reduction in our revenues. We depend on credit card processing for a majority of our membership programs, to include but not be limited to Visa, Mastercard, American Express, and Discover. Significant changes to the merchant operating regulations, merchant rules and guidelines, card acceptance methods and or card authorization methods could significantly impact our revenues. Additionally our membership programs are accepted under a negative option billing term, change in regulation of negative option billing could significantly impact our revenue. We are exposed to risks associated with credit card fraud and credit payment. Many of our customers use credit cards to pay for our services. We have suffered losses, and may continue to suffer losses, as a result of membership orders placed with fraudulent credit card data, even though the associated financial institution approved payment. Under current credit card practices, a merchant is liable for fraudulent credit card transactions when the merchant does not obtain a cardholder’s signature. A failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would result in significantly higher credit card-related costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. 10 Our business may incur liability for information retrieved from or transmitted through its websites or websites linked to it. Because our business publishes or makes various information available on its websites or though linked websites, we may be sued for, or incur liability related to, defamation, civil rights infringement, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, invasion of privacy, personal injury, product liability or other legal claims. Our business also offers email services subjecting us to liabilities or claims relating to unsolicited email or spamming, lost or misdirected messages, security breaches, illegal or fraudulent use of email or interruptions or delays in email service. Our insurance does not specifically provide coverage for liability or expenses for these types of claims or losses. Liability or expense relating to these types of claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial con dition and the trading price of our common stock. Our business could be significantly impacted by the occurrence of natural disasters such as hurricanes and other catastrophic events. Our primary data center and corporate headquarters are located in Clearwater, Florida and, are therefore, susceptible to damage from hurricanes or other tropical storms. Although we believe we have adequate backup for this data in a secure location, we may not be able to prevent outages and downtime caused by these storms or other events out of our control, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. We must continually seek new members to maintain or increase our current level of revenue. Internet users, in general, freely navigate and switch among a large number of websites. We cannot assure you that we will be able to add more members than we lose each month. Failure to increase our membership on a cost-effective basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. We may incur liability if we fail to adequately protect personal information. Our business handles personally identifiable information pertaining to our members and visitors residing in the United States as well as foreign countries. Many jurisdictions have adopted privacy, security, and data protection laws and regulations intended to prevent improper use and disclosure of personally identifiable information. In addition, some jurisdictions impose database registration requirements for which significant monetary and other penalties may be imposed for failure to comply. These laws, which are subject to change and may be inconsistent, may impose costly administrative requirements, limit our handling of information, and subject us to increased government oversight and financial liabilities all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Security breaches and inappropriate Internet use could damage our business. Concerns over the security of transactions conducted on the Internet and the privacy of users may inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services generally, and online commerce in particular. Failure to successfully prevent security breaches could significantly harm our business and expose us to lawsuits. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, including customer credit card and personal data, cause interruptions in our operations, or damage our brand and reputation. Breach of our security measures could result in the disclosure of personally identifiable information and could expose us to legal liability. We cannot assure you that our financial systems and other technology resources are completely secure from security breaches or sabotage. We have experienced security breaches and attempts at “hac king.” We may be required to incur significant costs to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Further, any well-publicized compromise of our security or the security of any other Internet provider could deter people from using our services or the Internet to conduct transactions that involve transmitting confidential information or downloading sensitive materials, which might adversely affect our online dating business. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Computer viruses could damage our business. Computer viruses, worms and similar programs may cause our systems to incur delays or other service interruptions and could damage our reputation and ability to provide our services and expose us to legal liability, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. 11 We may be unable to protect our intellectual property. We cannot guaranty that we can safeguard or deter misappropriation of our intellectual property. In addition, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property and take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. If former employees or third parties infringe or misappropriate our trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks or other proprietary information or intellectual property, our business could be seriously harmed. In addition, although we believe that our proprietary rights do not infringe the intellectual property rights of others, other parties may assert infringement claims against us or claim that we have violated their intellectual property rights. These claims, even if not true, could result in significant legal and other costs all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common st ock. The terms and conditions of any acquisition could require us to take actions that would not require your approval. We may issue additional shares of common or preferred stock, borrow money or issue debt instruments including debt convertible into capital stock to complete future acquisitions. Not all of these actions would require your approval even if these actions dilute your economic or voting interest as a shareholder. We have not paid dividends to our common shareholders since our inception and do not expect to do so in the foreseeable future. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and have no plans to do so for the foreseeable future. We presently anticipate that all earnings, if any, will be retained to develop our business and acquire additional companies and assets. Certain provisions of Nevada corporate law may limit or discourage actions in your best interest. Certain provisions of Nevada corporate law limit the circumstances under which a person or entity may acquire a controlling interest in the stock of a Nevada corporation or cause a merger, consolidation or other “combination” to occur involving a Nevada corporation. These laws may discourage companies or persons interested in acquiring a significant interest in or control of us, or delay or make an acquisition or transaction more difficult or expensive to consummate, regardless of whether the acquisition or transaction is in the best interest of our stockholders, all of which may limit or prevent you from receiving a “control premium” for your common stock. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become further impaired we may be required to record additional significant charge to earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, future cash flows, and slower growth rates in our segments. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined resulting in an impact on our results of opera tions. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and integration of these acquisitions may disrupt our business and management. We have in the past and may in the future acquire additional companies, products or technologies. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition and each acquisition has numerous risks. These risks include: · difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; · difficulty in effectively integrating the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies; · difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration; · disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees from other opportunities and challenges due to integration issues; · difficulty integrating the acquired company’s accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems; · inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel of the acquired business; · inability to retain key customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business; · inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; 12 · incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results; · potential impairment of our relationships with employees, customers, partners, distributors or third-party providers of technology or products; · potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant issues with product quality, architecture and development, or legal and financial contingencies, among other things; · incurring significant exit charges if products acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful; · potential inability to assert that internal controls over financial reporting are effective; · potential inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner, approvals from governmental authorities, which could delay or prevent such acquisitions; and · potential delay in customer and distributor purchasing decisions due to uncertainty about the direction of our product offerings. Mergers and acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, and ultimately, if we do not complete the integration of acquired businesses successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions to the extent anticipated, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in, or interpretations of, accounting principles could result in unfavorable accounting charges. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. We depend on key personnel, the loss of whom could harm our business. The success of the Company depends in part on the retention of personnel critical to our combined business operations due to, for example, unique technical skills, management expertise or key business relationships. We may be unable to retain existing management, finance, engineering, sales, customer support, and operations personnel that are critical to the success of the Company, which may result in disruption of operations, loss of key business relationships, information, expertise or know-how, unanticipated additional recruitment and training costs, and diminished anticipated benefits of acquisitions, including loss of revenue and profitability. Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our key senior management. Our employment agreements with our key personnel are short-term and on an at-will basis. We do not have key-person insurance on any of our employees. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management team, or of any other key employees, could divert management’s time and attention, increase our expenses and adversely affect our ability to conduct our business efficiently. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. We may be unable to retain our key employees or attract, retain and motivate other highly qualified employees in the future. We have experienced difficulty from time to time in attracting or retaining the personnel necessary to support the growth of our business, and may experience similar difficulties in the future. Demand for our services may decline due to the proliferation of “spam” and software designed to prevent its delivery. Our business may be adversely affected by the proliferation of “spam” and other unwanted Internet solicitations. In response to such proliferation, Internet Service Providers (“ISP’s”) have been adopting technologies, and individual computer users are installing software on their computers that are designed to prevent the delivery of certain Internet advertising, including legitimate solicitations such as those delivered by us. We cannot assure you that the number of ISP’s and individual computer users who employ these or other similar technologies and software will not increase, thereby diminishing the efficacy of our services. In the case that one or more of these technologies are widely adopted or the software widely utilized, demand for our services would decline. During the Fourth Qu arter of Fiscal 2006 and continuing through 2007 we recognized a decline in our email marketing revenue due to the factors mentioned above, and may continue experience declines despite our best efforts to maintain “Best Practices” in the execution of our email business. Our stock price is likely to be volatile and could drop unexpectedly. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of securities, particularly securities of technology companies. As a result, the market price of our common stock may materially decline, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the 13 market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation of this type is often expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources. Decreased effectiveness of equity compensation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees and harm our business. We have historically used stock options as a key component of our employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention, and provide competitive compensation packages. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, some of whom have been granted stock options, or to attract additional highly-qualified personnel. At any given time, a portion of our outstanding employee stock options may have exercise prices in excess of our then-current stock price. To the extent these circumstances occur, our ability to retain employees may be adversely affected. Defects in our platform, disruptions in our service or errors in execution could diminish demand for our service and subject us to substantial liability. Our on-demand platform is complex and incorporates a variety of hardware and proprietary and licensed software. Internet-based services such as ours frequently experience disruptions from undetected defects when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. In addition, our recently added text messaging capabilities may hinder the performance of our platform as we have limited experience with dealing with text messaging services. From time to time we have found and corrected defects in our platform. Other defects in our platform, or defects in new features, complementary services or upgrades released in the future, could result in service disruptions for one or more clients. Our clients might use our service in unanticipated ways that cause a service disruption for other clients att empting to access their contact list information and other data stored on our platform. In addition, a client may encounter a service disruption or slowdown due to high usage levels of our service. Because clients use our service for critical business processes, any defect in our platform, any disruption in our service or any error in execution could cause existing or potential clients not to use our service, could harm our reputation, and could subject us to litigation and significant liability for damage to our clients’ businesses. Our quarterly operating results can be difficult to predict and can fluctuate substantially, which could result in volatility in the price of our common stock. Our quarterly revenues and other operating results have varied in the past and are likely to continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our agreements with clients do not require minimum levels of usage or payments, and our revenues therefore fluctuate based on the actual usage of our service each quarter by existing and new clients. Quarterly fluctuations in our operating results also might be due to numerous other factors, including: · Our ability to attract new clients, including the length of our sales cycles, or to sell increased usage of our service to existing clients; · Technical difficulties or interruptions in our services; · Changes in privacy protection and other governmental regulations applicable to the our industry; · Changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors · The financial condition and business success of our clients; · Purchasing and budgeting cycles of our clients; · Acquisitions of businesses and products by us or our competitors; · Competition, including entry into the market by new competitors or new offerings by existing competitors; · Our ability to hire, train and retain sufficient sales, client management and other personnel; · Timing of development, introduction and market acceptance of new services or service enhancements by us or our competitors; · Concentration of marketing expenses for activities such as trade shows and advertising campaigns; · Expenses related to any new or expanded data centers; and · General economic and financial market conditions. 14 Many of these factors are beyond our control, and the occurrence of one or more of them could cause our operating results to vary widely. Because of quarterly fluctuations, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful. We may fail to forecast accurately the behavior of existing and potential clients or the demand for our service. Our expense levels are based, in significant part, on our expectations as to future revenues and are largely fixed in the short term. As a result, we could be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenues. Variability in our periodic operating results could lead to volatility in our stock price as equity research analysts and investors respond to quarterly fluctuations. Moreover, as a result of any of the foregoing or other factors, our operating results might not meet our announced guidance or expectations of investors and analysts, in which case the price of our common stock could decrease significantly. Our clients are not obligated to pay any minimum amount for use of our service on an on-going basis, and if they discontinue use of any of our service or do not use our service on a regular basis, our revenues would decline. The agreements we enter into with clients do not require minimum levels of usage or payments and are terminable at will by our clients. The periodic usage of our service by an existing client could decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the client’s level of satisfaction with our service, the client’s ability to satisfy its customer contact processes internally, and the availability and pricing of competing products and services. If our service fails to generate consistent business from existing clients, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 