Risk Factors We may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements. Written forward-looking statements may appear in this document and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in press releases, in reports to shareholders, on our website, and other documents. The Private Securities Reform Act of 1995 contains a safe harbor for forward-looking statements on which the Company relies in making such disclosures. In connection with this “safe harbor”, we are hereby identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Any such statements are qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements. We are dependent on a few large customers, the loss of any of which could substantially harm our business and operating results. Historically, a substantial percentage of our sales have been to a small number of customers. During the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, sales to our customers accounting for 10% or more of our net sales aggregated approximately 47.9%, 57.7% and 57.6%, respectively, of our net sales. Our three largest customers during the year ended December 31, 2006 were Sanyo Epson Imaging Devices (HK) Limited, Sharp Corporation and Wuxi Sharp Electronic Components Co., Ltd. each of which accounted for more than 10% of our net sales during the year. The loss of any one of our largest customers or a substantial reduction in orders from any of them would adversely impact our sales and decrease our net income or cause us to incur losses unless and until we were able to replace the customer or order with one or more of comparable size. Our quarterly and annual operating results are subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a wide variety of factors. Our quarterly and annual operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results during any period. This could result from any one or a combination of factors, such as: • the timing, cancellation or postponement of orders; • the type of product and related margins; • our customers’ announcement and introduction of new products or new generations of products; • the life cycles of our customers’ products; • our timing of expenditures in anticipation of future orders; 5 Table of Contents • our effectiveness in managing manufacturing processes, including, interruptions or slowdowns in production and changes in cost and availability of components; and • the mix of orders filled. The volume and timing of orders received during a quarter are difficult to forecast. From time to time, our customers encounter uncertain and changing demand for their products. Customers generally order based on their forecasts. If demand falls below such forecasts or if customers do not control inventories effectively, they may reduce, cancel or postpone shipments of orders. Because of any of the above factors, our operating results in any period should not be considered indicative of results to be expected in any future period, and fluctuations in operating results may also result in fluctuations in the market price of our common shares. Our operating results in future periods may fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. This failure to meet expectations could cause the trading price of our common shares to decline. We face increasing competition, which has had and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our gross margins. Although certain barriers to entry exist in the electronics manufacturing services, or EMS, industry, including technical expertise, substantial capital requirements, difficulties relating to building customer relationships and a large customer base, the barriers to entry are comparatively low and we are aware that manufacturers in Hong Kong and China may be developing or have developed the required technical capability and customer base to compete with our existing business. Competition in the EMS industry is intense, characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change and competition from major international companies. Although our sales have generally increased each year, this intense competition has resulted in pricing pressures and consistently lower gross margins each year. Over the last several years, our gross margins have declined substantially and in the last three years, our gross margins have declined by: • 15.4% in 2006, from 11.7% for 2005 to 9.9% for 2006, • 18.2% in 2005, from 14.3% for 2004 to 11.7% for 2005; and • 12.3% in 2004, from 16.3% for 2003 to 14.3% for 2004. If we are forced to continue to lower our unit prices and are unable to offset this decrease by increasing our sales volumes, our gross margins will continue to decline. If we cannot stem the decline in our gross margins, our ability to use internal resources to finance planned expansion may be curtailed, our dividend payments to shareholders may be decreased or eliminated, our financial position may be harmed and our stock price may fall. We may not be able to compete successfully with our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do. We will face intense competition when we begin large-scale production of flexible printed circuit, or FPC, boards and FPC subassemblies. The electronic manufacturing services we provide are available from many independent sources as well as from our current and potential customers with in-house manufacturing capabilities. The following table identifies those companies who we believe are our principal competitors by category of products or services we provide: 6 Table of Contents Product/Service Competitor EMS Celestica, Inc. § Flextronics International Ltd. § Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd. § Jabil Circuit, Inc. § Sanmina-SCI Corporation § Solectron Corporation Image capturing devices and their modules Lite-On Technology Corporation § Logitech International S.A. § The Primax Group Mobile phone accessories Balda-Thong Fook Solutions Sdn., Bhd. § Elcoteq Network Corp. § WKK International (Holdings) Ltd. RF modules Liquid crystal display, or LCD, panels Wavecom SA § WKK International (Holdings) Ltd. Elec & Eltek International Holdings Limited § Truly International Holdings Ltd. § Varitronix International Ltd. Telecommunication subassemblies and components Philips § Samsung § Solectron § Varitronix International Ltd. Consumer electronic products (calculators, personal organizers and linguistic products) Kinpo Electronics, Inc. § Inventec Co. Ltd. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, manufacturing, regional shipping capabilities and logistics support and personnel resources than we do. As a result, we may be unable to compete successfully with these organizations in the future. When we begin large-scale production of FPC boards and FPC subassemblies, we expect to face intense competition from large flexible printed circuit board manufacturers located in Taiwan, China, Korea, Singapore, North America and Europe as well as from large, established EMS providers that have developed or acquired, or, like us, are developing their own flexible printed circuit manufacturing capabilities, and have extensive experience in electronics assembly. Such competition could pressure us to provide discounts or lower prices to gain market share, which could adversely affect our margins and the profitability of our FPC business and could adversely affect our operating results as a whole. Our inability to utilize capacity at our facilities could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. In order to increase our production capacity to manufacture LCD modules and FPC subassemblies and expand our capabilities and begin manufacturing FPC boards, we are improving our existing facilities in Shenzhen, PRC in order to expand our capacity to produce FPC boards and are planning to construct new factories in both Wuxi and Shenzhen Guangming Hi-Tech Industrial Park, or Shenzhen Guangming, China. In Wuxi, our expansion plan is to construct two new factories, one to produce FPC boards and FPC subassemblies and the other mainly for LCD module production. Our current intent is to dedicate our planned new factory in Shenzhen, Guangming to produce LCD modules and other products. Through December 31, 2006, we had spent approximately $11.7 million to modify and equip our existing Shenzhen factory for FPC manufacturing and in December 2006, we spent $1.3 million and $1.5 million to acquire the land in Wuxi and to pay the initial payment for land price of Shenzhen Guangming, respectively, upon which we plan to construct new factories for FPC and LCD modules production. We have financed the improvements to our existing Shenzhen facilities, and plan to finance the planned Wuxi and Shenzhen Guangming factories, from internally generated funds, but cannot guarantee that we will be able to utilize fully the additional capacity that each of these new facilities will provide when they come on line. Our factory utilization is dependent on our success in providing manufacturing services for FPC boards, FPC subassemblies and LCD modules at a price and volume sufficient to absorb our increased overhead expenses. Demand for contract manufacturing of these products may not be as high as we expect, and we may fail to realize the expected benefit from our investments in either or both of these facilities. Delays in constructing our new factories could adversely affect our operating results. Our goal is for our existing Shenzhen and new Wuxi factories to begin production of FPC boards and FPC subassemblies in mid-2007 and early 2009, respectively. We also plan to commence first phase construction of another factory building in Wuxi by the end of 2007 to manufacture LCD modules and expect production to begin in early 2010. In addition, we expect the completion of the transfer for the land in Shenzhen Guangming, where we plan to construct a new factory for the production of LCD modules and other products to be in the second quarter of 2007 and we plan to commence the first phase of construction in late 2007. In connection with constructing and improving 7 Table of Contents our manufacturing facilities, we could encounter shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering problems, work stoppages, weather interference, flood, delays in obtaining or failure to obtain necessary permits from regulatory authorities, losses as a result of fraud or corruption or unanticipated costs increases. We also could be subject to delays in connection with the transfer to us of the land in Shenzhen Guangming. Any of these eventualities could extend the time for these factories to begin significant production, which, in turn would delay our receipt of anticipated revenues to be generated from such production and adversely affect our operating results. Cancellations or delays in orders could materially and adversely affect our gross margins and operating results. Our sales to, original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, customers are primarily based on purchase orders that we receive from time to time rather than firm, long-term purchase commitments. Although it is our general practice to purchase raw materials only upon receiving a purchase order, for certain customers we will occasionally purchase raw materials based on such customers’ rolling forecasts. Further, during times of potential component shortages, we have purchased, and may continue to purchase, raw materials and component parts in the expectation of receiving purchase orders for products that use these components. In the event actual purchase orders are delayed, are not received or are cancelled, we would experience increased inventory levels or possible write-down of raw material inventory that could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers and the life cycles of their products (and therefore ours) may be short, so our future revenues are difficult to predict. As our customers do not have long-term purchase commitments with us and our sales are made on individual purchase orders, our customers may cancel or defer purchase orders. In addition, the life cycles of our customers’ products (and therefore ours) may be insufficient to ensure that these increased costs can be offset. Our customers’ purchase orders may vary significantly from period to period, and it is difficult to forecast future order quantities. Further, we do not typically operate with any significant backlog in orders, and this makes it difficult for us to forecast our revenues, plan our production and allocate resources for future periods (including our capital expenditures). There can be no assurance that the volume of our customers’ orders will be consistent with prior periods or with our expectations. Accordingly, our operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future. Such fluctuations may adversely affect our liquidity, profitability, operating results and financial condition. Our business has been characterized by a rapidly changing mix of products and customers. Our business has been characterized by a rapidly changing mix of products and customers, driven in significant part by changes in demand for consumer electronics as well as technological innovation. We manufacture headsets containing Bluetooth wireless technology, mobile phone accessories, home entertainment products, printed circuit board assemblies, or PCBAs, for headsets containing Bluetooth wireless technology, radio frequency, or RF, modules, thin film transistor liquid crystal display, or TFT LCD, modules, color LCD modules and complementary metal oxide semiconductor, or CMOS, sensor modules, FPC boards, FPC subassemblies, and digital audio broadcast, or DAB, modules. We expect that a substantial portion of our growth will come from the manufacturing of these products. Certain products have become less economically significant to us over time, such as monochrome LCD modules for mobile phone headsets, for which our sales have dropped significantly in each of the past few years since 2002 as end use customers are increasingly choosing color LCD panels instead. We expect that our current mix of customers and products will continue to change rapidly, and we believe this to be relatively common in the EMS industry. If the products of our customers that we manufacture become obsolete or less profitable and we are not able to diversify our product offerings or customer base in a timely manner, our business would be materially and adversely affected. There may not be a sufficient market for new products that our customers or we develop. Our customers may not develop new products in a timely and cost-effective manner, or the market for products they choose to develop may not grow or be sustained in line with their expectations. This would reduce the overall businesses they outsource, which would seriously affect our business and operating results. Even if we develop capabilities to manufacture new products, there can be no guarantee that a market exists or will develop for such products or that such products will adequately respond to market trends. If we invest resources to develop capabilities to manufacture or expand capabilities for existing and new products, like the investments we are making to our existing facilities in Shenzhen and the new factories we are planning to construct in Wuxi and Guangming Shenzhen, 8 Table of Contents PRC to manufacture FPC boards, FPC subassemblies, LCD modules and other products for which sales do not develop, our business and operating results would be seriously harmed. Even if the market for our services grows, it may not grow at an adequate pace. We must spend substantial amounts to maintain and develop advanced manufacturing processes and engage additional engineering personnel in order to attract new customers and business. We operate in a rapidly changing industry. Technological advances, the introduction of new products and new manufacturing and design techniques could materially and adversely affect our business unless we are able to adapt to those changing conditions. As a result, we are continually required to commit substantial funds for, and significant resources to, engaging additional engineering and other technical personnel and to purchase advanced design, production and test equipment. Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on our ability to continue to provide new manufacturing solutions which, based on time to introduction, cost and performance with the manufacturing capabilities of OEMs and competitive third-party suppliers compare favorably to those offered by our competitors. Our success in attracting new customers and developing new business depends on various factors, including: • utilization of advances in technology; • development of new or improved manufacturing processes for our customers’ products; • delivery of efficient and cost-effective services; and • timely completion of the manufacture of new products. Our business is capital intensive and the failure to obtain capital could require that we curtail capital expenditures. To remain competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in capital equipment, facilities and technological improvements. We expect that substantial capital will be required to continue to expand our manufacturing capacity and capability and provide working capital for growth. We plan to finance our expansion with capital we generate from operations. If we are unable to generate sufficient funds to conduct existing operations and fund our expansion, we may have to curtail our capital expenditures. Any curtailment of our capital expenditures could result in a reduction in net sales, further reduction or elimination of our dividends to shareholders, reduced quality of our products, increased manufacturing costs for our products, harm to our reputation, reduced manufacturing efficiencies or other harm to our business. We generally have no written agreements with suppliers to obtain components and our margins and operating results could suffer from increases in component prices. For certain customers, we are responsible for purchasing components used in manufacturing their products. We do not have written agreements with some of our suppliers of components. This typically results in our bearing the risk of component price increases because we may be unable to procure the required materials at a price level necessary to generate anticipated margins from the orders of our customers. Accordingly, increases in component prices could materially and adversely affect our gross margins and operating results. Our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected if our suppliers of needed components fail to meet our needs. At various times, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience, shortages of some of the electronic components that we use, and suppliers of some components lack sufficient capacity to meet the demand for these components. In some cases, supply shortages and delays in deliveries of particular components have resulted in curtailed production, or delays in production, of assemblies using that component, which contributed to an increase in our inventory levels and reduction in our gross margins. We expect that shortages and delays in deliveries of some components will continue. If we are unable to obtain sufficient components on a timely basis, we may experience manufacturing delays, which could harm our relationships with current or prospective customers and reduce our sales. We also depend on a small number of suppliers for certain components that we use in our business. For example, we purchase most of our integrated circuits from Cambridge Silicon Radio Plc, Toshiba Corporation and Sharp Corpo- 9 Table of Contents ration and certain of their affiliates. If we were to be unable to continue to purchase components from these limited source suppliers, our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. Factors affecting the electronics industry in general and our customers in particular could harm our operations. Most of our sales are to customers in the electronics industry, which is subject to rapid technological change, product obsolescence and short product life cycles. The factors affecting the electronics industry in general, or any of our major customers or competitors in particular, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our success depends to a significant extent on the success achieved by our customers in developing and marketing their products, especially products that use RF modules, color straight-twisted nematic, or STN, LCD modules, TFT LCD modules, CMOS sensor modules, FPC subassemblies and boards, and DAB modules, some of which may be new and untested. If our customers’ products become obsolete, fail to gain widespread commercial acceptance or become the subject of intellectual property disputes, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our customers are dependent on shipping companies for delivery of our products and interruptions to shipping could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our customers rely on a variety of carriers for product transportation through various world ports. A work stoppage, strike or shutdown of one or more major ports or airports could result in shipping delays materially and adversely affecting our customers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Similarly, an increase in freight surcharges from rising fuel costs or general price increases could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Because our operations are international, we are subject to significant worldwide political, economic, legal and other uncertainties. We are incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and have subsidiaries incorporated in the Cayman Islands, China, Japan, Hong Kong and Macao. We have administrative offices in Macao and Hong Kong and manufacture all of our products in China. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 99.7% of the net book value of our total property, plant and equipment was located in China. We sell our products to customers in Hong Kong, North America, Europe, Japan, China and Southeast Asia. Our international operations are subject to significant political and economic risks and legal uncertainties, including: • changes in economic and political conditions and in governmental policies; • changes in international and domestic customs regulations; • wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts; • changes in tariffs, trade restrictions, trade agreements and taxation; • difficulties in managing or overseeing foreign operations; and • limitations on the repatriation of funds because of foreign exchange controls. The occurrence or consequences of any of these factors may restrict our ability to operate in the affected region and decrease the profitability of our operations in that region. Our operating results could be negatively impacted by seasonality. Historically, our sales and operating results have been affected by seasonality. Sales of products and components related to mobile phones have generally been lower in the first quarter after peaking fourth quarter. Sales of educational products and home entertainment devices are often higher during the second and third quarters in anticipation of the start of the school year and the Christmas buying season. Similarly, orders for consumer electronics products have historically been lower in the first quarter from both the closing of our factories in China for the Lunar New Year holidays and the general reduction in sales following the holiday season. These sales patterns may not be indicative of future sales performance. 10 Table of Contents Our results could be adversely affected with intensifying environmental regulations. Our operations create environmentally sensitive waste, which involves the use and disposal of chemicals, solid and hazardous waste and other toxic and hazardous materials used in the manufacturing process. The disposal of hazardous waste has received increasing attention from Chinese national and local governments and foreign governments and agencies and has been subject to increasing regulation. Currently, relevant Chinese environmental protection laws and regulations impose fines on discharge of waste materials and empower certain environmental authorities to close any facility that causes serious environmental problems. The costs of remedying violations or resolving enforcement actions that might be initiated by governmental authorities could be substantial. Any remediation of environmental contamination would involve substantial expense that could harm our operating results. In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our operations may be subject or the manner in which existing or future laws will be administered or interpreted. Future regulations may be applied to materials, products or activities that have not been subject to regulation previously. The costs of complying with new or more stringent regulations could be significant. Future acquisitions or strategic investments may not be successful and may harm our operating results. From time to time, we review prospects for acquisition or strategic investments that we believe would complement our existing business and products, augment our market coverage and distribution ability or enhance our technological capabilities. Future acquisitions or strategic investments could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results because of: • possible charges to operating results for purchased technology, restructuring or impairment charges related to goodwill or amortization expenses associated with intangible assets; • potentially increasing our expenses and working capital requirements and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; • difficulties in successfully integrating any acquired operations, technologies, customers products and businesses with our operations; • diversion of our capital and management’s attention to other business concerns; • risks of entering markets or geographic areas in which we have limited prior experience; or • potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations or the inability to hire key employees necessary to manage or staff the acquired enterprise operations. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the risks related to our operations and losses. We have not experienced any major accidents in the course of our operations, which have caused significant property damage or personal injuries. However, there is no assurance that we will not experience major accidents in the future. Although we have insurance against various risks, including a business interruption, fidelity and losses or damages to our buildings, machinery, equipment and inventories, the occurrence of certain incidents such as earthquake, war, pandemics, and flood, and the consequences resulting from them, may not be covered adequately, or at all, by the insurance we maintain. We also face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of our products is alleged to have resulted in property damage, bodily injury or other adverse effects. We have only limited product liability insurance covering some of our products. Losses incurred or payments we may be required to make in excess of applicable insurance coverage or for uninsured events or any material claim for which insurance coverage is denied, limited or is not available could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We are a defendant in putative class action lawsuits and this litigation could adversely affect our business regardless of the final outcome. As we have previously reported, we and certain of our directors are defendants in consolidated class actions entitled Rocco vs. Nam Tai Electronics et al., Lead Case No. 03-cv-01148-JES, originally commenced on February 20, 2003 and pending in the United States District Court in the Southern District of New York. The named plaintiffs purport to represent a putative class of persons who purchased our common shares from July 29, 2002 through February 18, 2003. The plaintiffs have asserted claims under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 11 Table of Contents 1934 and allege that misrepresentations and/or omissions were made during the alleged class period concerning the partial reversal of an inventory provision and a charge to goodwill related to our LCD Products segment. We have filed an answer to the amended and consolidated complaint and oral argument on the plaintiffs’ most recent motion for class certification was held on February 1, 2007. The court reserved judgment on the motion at the conclusion of the oral argument and had not rendered a ruling as the close of business on March 16, 2007. We believe we have meritorious defenses and intend to continue to defend the actions vigorously. The ultimate outcome of this litigation cannot be determined at present. However, this litigation has been and is expected to continue to be very costly and could divert our management’s attention and resources. In addition, we have no insurance covering our liability, if any, or that of our officers and directors, for this lawsuit and we are paying the costs of defense and those of our directors. Any adverse determination in this litigation could also subject us to the payment of material amounts, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We believe we have meritorious defenses and intend to continue to defend the actions vigorously. We have suffered material losses from litigation involving claims against Tele-Art Inc. and related proceedings, and may suffer additional losses and be unable to succeed in recovering on our judgments against Tele-Art Inc. For a number of years, we have been involved in litigation against Tele-Art Inc, its initial liquidator and the Bank of China (Hong Kong) Limited, or the Bank of China, formerly known as Bank of China Hong Kong Branch, concerning, among things, the priority of claims against Tele-Art Inc.’s insolvent estate and Nam Tai’s rights to have redeemed in 1999 and 2002 an aggregate of 308,227 of the common shares of Nam Tai beneficially held by Tele-Art Inc. in order to satisfy a portion of Nam Tai’s claims against Tele-Art Inc. After several decisions by the courts of the British Virgin Islands and appeals in these proceedings, judgment was rendered on November 20, 2006 by the Lords of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council of the United Kingdom (the “Judgment”) declaring that: • the redemptions by Nam Tai of common shares beneficially owned by Tele-Art Inc. that Nam Tai effected on January 22, 1999 and August 12, 2002 were nullities, • the register of members of Nam Tai (i.e., Nam Tai’s shareholders’ register) should be rectified to reinstate the redeemed shares together with any other Nam Tai shares which have since accrued by way of exchange or dividend, and • the reinstated shares should be delivered to the Bank of China as the holder of a security interest in Tele-Art Inc.’s assets. Since our redemptions of 308,227 shares occurred before our three-for-one stock split and one-for-ten stock dividend that we effected in 2003, the total number shares that are being reinstated for delivery to the Bank of China as a result of the Privy Council’s judgment amount to 1,017,149 of our common shares. We have accounted for the obligation to reinstate the redeemed shares at their fair value (i.e. market closing price) on November 20, 2006, the date of the Judgment. Based on the proceedings with respect to the liquidation of Tele-Art Inc., any proceeds from sales of the shares by the Bank of China after the deduction of its valid claims and other costs and expenses of the liquidation of Tele-Art Inc., together with any Nam Tai shares remaining after the Bank of China’s sales of that collateral, are to be shared among Nam Tai and two other unsecured creditors on a pro-rata basis up to the amount of their valid claims against Tele-Art Inc. Nam Tai has been advised that of the unsecured claims against Tele-Art Inc. in the liquidation, approximately 95% consist of Nam Tai’s judgment against Tele-Art Inc. that the High Court of Justice in the British Virgin Islands awarded to Nam Tai in the amount of $34 million, plus interest, that resulted from damages Nam Tai suffered from a 1993 injunction obtained by Tele-Art Inc. The remainder of the unsecured claims against Tele-Art Inc. in the liquidation consist of Nam Tai’s claims for other amounts owed to it by Tele-Art Inc., which aggregate to approximately 4% of the total unsecured claims in the liquidation, with the balance of the aggregate unsecured claims consisting of those of two other unsecured creditors of Tele-Art Inc. The amount actually recoverable, if any, by Nam Tai on its judgments against Tele-Art Inc. and other claims will depend on the price realized by the liquidator if and when Nam Tai’s shares are sold to satisfy creditors’ claims against Tele-Art Inc. and thus is dependent on the market price at the time of sale as well as the actual amounts of the claims of the Bank of China and the other creditors against Tele-Art Inc. and ultimate expenses of the liquidator. Because of uncertainties relating to the timing of the Bank of China’s actions with respect to the disposition of the Nam 12 Table of Contents Tai shares to be delivered to it pursuant to the Judgment, including the timing of any sales and the amount of proceeds to be realized, the actual amount of the Bank of China’s claims, including interest, costs and expenses, whether the Bank of China actually remits any excess proceeds or shares to the liquidator for the benefit of Tele-Art Inc.’s unsecured creditors, the uncertain effect of any claims that Nam Tai may assert against the Bank of China, the possibility that Nam Tai will be forced to seek further recourse from the courts in an effort to protect its position and the timing, cost and uncertain success of such recourse, Nam Tai has determined not to record any value in its financial statements to a potential recovery on its unsecured claims against Tele-Art Inc.’s estate in liquidation until Nam Tai’s prospects of recovery, if any, become reasonably certain. We may incur substantial additional costs in pursuing our recovery, and neither the amount of our judgments against Tele-Art Inc. nor such costs may be recoverable. We have not paid dividends on the redeemed shares since 1997 and at March 1, 2007, the amount that would have accrued on the redeemed shares had such shares not been redeemed totaled approximately $5.6 million. Although the Privy Council did not address the issue of entitlement to post redemption dividends in its Judgment of November 20, 2006, following the Judgment, the Bank of China made claim to such dividends, a claim that Nam Tai has denied. Litigation may ensue over the Bank of China’s or the liquidator of Tele-Art Inc.’s right to the dividends and if we cannot successfully prevail on such claim or claims, of which there can be no assurance, we will suffer additional losses on account of having redeemed Tele-Art Inc.’s shares. We could become involved in intellectual property disputes. We do not have any patents, licenses, or trademarks material to our business. Instead, we rely on trade secrets, industry expertise and our customers sharing of intellectual property with us. However, there can be no assurance that such intellectual property is not in violation of that belonging to other parties. We may be notified that we are infringing patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights owned by other parties. In the event of an infringement claim, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to develop a non-infringing alternative or to obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing such an alternative or obtaining a license on reasonable terms, if at all. Any litigation, even without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We depend on our executive officers and skilled management personnel. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers. Generally, these employees are bound by employment or non-competition agreements. However, we cannot assure you that we will retain our executive officers and other key employees. We could be seriously harmed by the loss of any of our executive officers. In order to manage our growth, we will need to recruit and retain additional skilled management personnel and if we are not able to do so, our business and our ability to continue to grow could be harmed. We maintain no key person insurance on these individuals. The loss of service of any of these officers or key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business growth and operating results. Labor shortages in Southern China could adversely affect our gross margins or decrease revenue. To date, we have conducted all of our manufacturing operations in Southern China, where we have been able to take advantage of the lower overhead costs and inexpensive labor rates as compared to Hong Kong. Historically, there has been an abundance of labor in Southern China, but over the last few years, factories in Southern China are facing a labor shortage as migrant workers and middle level management seek better wages and working conditions elsewhere. If this trend continues and adversely affects our ability to recruit or retain necessary workers and management personnel, our operations could be adversely impacted by, for example, preventing us from manufacturing at peak capacity or forcing us to increase wages and benefits to attract necessary workers. This could result in lower revenues or increased manufacturing costs, which would adversely affect gross margins. We are subject to the risk of increased taxes. We base our tax position upon the anticipated nature and conduct of our business and upon our understanding of the tax laws of the various countries in which we have assets or conduct activities. Our tax position, however, is subject to review and possible challenge by taxing authorities and to possible changes in law. We cannot determine in advance the extent to which some jurisdictions may assess additional tax or interest and penalties on such additional taxes. 13 Table of Contents Several places in which we are located allow for tax holidays or provide other tax incentives to attract and retain businesses. We have obtained holidays or other incentives where available. Our taxes could increase if certain tax holidays or incentives are retracted, or if they are not renewed upon expiration, or tax rates applicable to us in such jurisdictions are otherwise increased. We may not pay dividends in the future Although we have declared dividends during each of the last thirteen years, we may not be able to declare them or may decide not to declare them in the future. Our China subsidiaries are required to reserve about 11% of their profits for future development and staff welfare, which may affect our ability to declare dividends. We will determine the amounts of the dividends when they are declared and even if dividends are declared in the future, we may not continue them in any future period. Payment of dividends by our subsidiaries in China to us is subject to restrictions under PRC law. Under PRC law, dividends may be paid only out of distributable profits. Distributable profits with respect to our subsidiaries in China refers to after-tax profits as determined in accordance with accounting principles and financial regulations applicable to PRC enterprises, or China GAAP, less any recovery of accumulated losses and allocations to statutory funds that it is required to make. Any distributable profits that are not distributed in a given year are retained and available for distribution in subsequent years. The calculation of distributable profits under China GAAP differs in many respects from the calculation under U.S. GAAP. As a result, our subsidiaries in China may not be able to pay any dividend in a given year as determined under U.S. GAAP. The China’s tax authorities may require changes in determining income of the Company that would limit its ability to pay dividends and make other distributions. PRC law requires companies to set aside a portion of net income to fund certain reserves for future development and staff welfare, which amounts are not distributable as dividends. These rules and possible changes could restrict our PRC subsidiaries from repatriating funds ultimately to us and our stockholders as dividends. Accordingly, since we derive a majority of our profits from our subsidiaries in China, we may not have sufficient distributable profits to pay dividends to our shareholders. If certain exemptions within the PRC regarding withholding taxes are removed, we may be required to deduct China’s corporate withholding taxes from any dividends that are paid to us by our PRC subsidiaries, which will reduce the return on investment. Under current PRC tax laws, regulations and rulings, companies are exempt from withholding taxes with respect to dividends paid to stockholders of PRC companies outside the PRC. If the PRC government eliminated this exemption, we may be required to withhold such taxes, which will reduce our revenues as a parent company and the amount of retained earnings that we may distribute to our stockholders. Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the PRC government to regulate its economy may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. All of our manufacturing facilities and most of our operations are in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in respect of various areas such as structure, governmental involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, China’s economy was a planned economy. Subsequently, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of China’s economy, including the encouragement of private economic activities and decentralization of economic regulation with a move towards a market economy. However, the PRC government retains a large role in industrial output (which is majority state-owned), the allocation of resources, production, pricing and management, and there can be no assurance that the PRC government will continue to pursue a policy of economic reform and they may significantly alter them to our detriment from time to time without notice. Furthermore, in all cases we may not be able to capitalize on the economic reform measures adopted by the PRC government. Our operations and financial results could be adversely affected by changes in political, economic and social conditions or the relevant policies of the PRC government, such as changes in laws and regulations (or the interpretations thereof), measures which might be introduced to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and the imposition of additional import restrictions. The nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises by the PRC government could result in the total loss of our investment in China. Furthermore, 14 Table of Contents significant portions of economic activities in China are export-driven at present and, therefore, are affected by developments in the economies of China’s principal trading partners and other export-driven economies. The PRC legal system has inherent uncertainties that could materially and adversely impact our ability to enforce the agreements governing our factories and to do business. We occupy our manufacturing facilities under China land use agreements with agencies of the PRC government and we occupy other facilities under lease agreements with the relevant landlord. The performance of these agreements and the operations of our factories are dependent on our relationship with the local governments in regions, which our facilities are located. Our operations and prospects would be materially and adversely affected by the failure of the local government to honor these agreements or an adverse change in the law governing them. In the event of a dispute, enforcement of these agreements could be difficult in China. Unlike the United States, China has a civil law system based on written statutes in which judicial decisions have limited precedential value. The government of China has enacted laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, its experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited, and our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes in China is unpredictable. These matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the PRC government, and forces and factors unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. Controversies affecting China’s trade with the United States could harm our operating results or depress our stock price. While China has been granted permanent most favored nation trade status in the United States through its entry into the World Trade Organization, controversies between the United States and China may arise that threaten the status quo involving trade between the United States and China. These controversies could materially and adversely affect our business by, among other things, causing our products in the United States to become more expensive resulting in reduced demand for our products by those customers. Political or trade friction between the United States and China, whether or not actually affecting our business, could also materially and adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares. A deterioration of relations between China and Japan may harm our business. While our production facilities are located in China, we derive a substantial amount of our sales from Japanese customers. With respect to our major customers accounting for 10% or more of our net sales, customers in Japan represented approximately 37.7%, 57.7% and 57.6% of our net sales for each of the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Our business is therefore vulnerable to any deterioration of relations or disruption of trade between China and Japan. Beginning in the spring of 2005, relations between China and Japan grew increasingly strained. This culminated in a week of anti-Japan protests throughout China, which included attacks on Japanese citizens and property and a boycott on Japanese imports. While relations between Japan and China appeared to improve during 2006, if relations again become strained, our Japanese customers and other companies based in Japan may become reluctant to outsource manufacturing to us and other EMS providers based in China. There is also the possibility that our operations in China could be targeted by anti-Japan protestors or for boycotts because of the presence of a number of our managers and employees who are Japanese or because of our relationships with Japanese customers. A reduction in business from Japanese customers or harm cause to our facilities or personnel from anti-Japanese sentiment could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. The economy of China has been experiencing significant growth, leading to some inflation. If the government tries to control inflation by traditional means of monetary policy or returns to planned economic techniques, our business will suffer a reduction in sales growth and expansion opportunities. The rapid growth of the PRC economy has historically resulted in high levels of inflation. If the government tries to control inflation, it may have an adverse effect on the business climate and growth of private enterprise in the PRC. An economic slowdown may increase our costs. If inflation is allowed to proceed unchecked, our costs would likely increase, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to increase our prices to an extent that would offset the increase in our expenses. 15 Table of Contents Changes to PRC tax laws and heightened efforts by the China’s tax authorities to increase revenues could subject us to greater taxes. Under applicable PRC law, we have been afforded a number of tax concessions by, and tax refunds from, China’s tax authorities on a substantial portion of our operations in China by reinvesting all or part of the profits attributable to our PRC manufacturing operations. However, the PRC tax system is subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to interpretation and enforcement. Following the PRC government’s program of privatizing many state-owned enterprises, the PRC government has attempted to augment its revenues through heightened tax collection efforts. Continued efforts by the PRC government to increase tax revenues could result in decisions or interpretations of the tax laws by China’s tax authorities that would increase our future tax liabilities or deny us expected concessions or refunds. For example, PRC tax reform, which reduced the value added tax, or VAT, tax refund from 17% to 13%, effective January 1, 2004, adversely affected our margins. Although, the PRC reinstated the VAT tax refund rate for certain products to 17% in mid-September 2006, such reinstatement did not cover all products and certain of our products remain limited to a VAT refund rate of 13% or less. Changes in foreign exchange regulations of China could adversely affect our operating results. Some of our earnings are denominated in yuan, the base unit of the RMB. The People’s Bank of China and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, regulate the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies. Under the current unified floating exchange rate system, the People’s Bank of China publishes a daily exchange rate for RMB based on the previous day’s dealings in the inter-bank foreign exchange market. Financial institutions may enter into foreign exchange transactions at exchange rates within an authorized range above or below the exchange rate published by the People’s Bank of China according to the market conditions. Since 1996, the PRC government has issued a number of rules, regulations and notices regarding foreign exchange control designed to provide for greater convertibility of RMB. Under such regulations, any foreign investment enterprise, or FIE, must establish a “current account” and a “capital account” with a bank authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Currently, FIEs are able to exchange RMB into foreign exchange currencies at designated foreign exchange banks for settlement of current account transactions, which include payment of dividends based on the board resolutions authorizing the distribution of profits or dividends of the company concerned, without the approval of SAFE. Conversion of RMB into foreign currencies for capital account transactions, which include the receipt and payment of foreign exchange for loans, capital contributions and the purchase of fixed assets, continues to be subject to limitations and requires the approval of SAFE. Our subsidiaries in China are all FIEs and subject to the laws of China to which such regulations apply. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient foreign exchange to make relevant payments or satisfy other foreign exchange requirements in the future. Our financial results have been affected by changes in currency exchange rates. Changes in currency rates involving the Japanese yen or renminbi could increase our expenses. Our financial results have been affected by currency fluctuations, resulting in total foreign exchange gains of approximately $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, total foreign exchange gains of approximately $2.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2005 and total foreign exchange gains of $189,000 during the year ended December 31, 2004. We sell most of our products in U.S. dollars and pay our expenses in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen, Hong Kong dollars and RMB. While we face a variety of risks associated with changes among the relative value of these currencies, we believe the most significant exchange risk presently results from material purchases we make in Japanese yen and expenses we pay in RMB. Approximately 6%, 3% and 11% of our material costs have been in Japanese yen during the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively, but sales made in Japanese yen accounted for only 4%, 2% and 9%, respectively, of our sales for each of the last three years. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the exchange rate of the Japanese yen to the U.S. dollar fluctuated above and below the rate at December 31, 2005, but at December 31, 2006, the exchange rate of Japanese yen to the U.S. dollar had increased approximately 1% from the level at the end of December 31, 2005. This fluctuation resulted in a slight increase in our material costs during 2006 but it did not have a material impact on our 2006 financial results as compared to those in 2005. A future appreciation of the Japanese yen against U.S. dollars would increase our costs when translated into U.S. dollars and could adversely affect our margins unless we made sufficient sales in Japanese yen to offset against material purchases we made in Japanese yen. 16 Table of Contents Approximately 3% and nil of our sales, 10% and 9% of our total costs and expenses and 3% and 2% of our material costs were in RMB during the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Between 1994 and July 2005, the market and official RMB rates were unified and the value of the RMB was essentially pegged to the U.S. dollar and was relatively stable. On July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China adjusted the exchange rate of RMB to the U.S. dollar by linking the RMB to a basket of currencies and simultaneously setting the exchange rate of RMB to U.S. dollars, from 1:8.27, to a narrow band of around 1:8.11, resulting in an approximate 2.4% appreciation in the value of the RMB against the U.S. dollars at the end of 2005, from the July 21, 2005 RMB adjustment, a 3.3% appreciation at the end of 2006 as compared to the end of 2005 and 5.7% cumulative appreciation at the end of 2006 as compared to the level immediately prior to the July 21, 2005 adjustment in the exchange rate. This RMB appreciation to the U.S. dollars resulted in an increase in our total costs and expenses of approximately 0.5% based on the difference between our sales made in RMB versus our total costs and expenses incurred in RMB. If the trend of RMB appreciation to the U.S. dollar continues or the PRC government allows a further and significant RMB appreciation, our operating costs would further increase and our financial results would be adversely affected unless our renminbi denominated sales increased commensurately. If we determined to pass onto our customers through price increases the effect of increases in the RMB relative to the U.S. dollars, it would make our products more expensive in global markets, such as the United States and the European Union. This could result in the loss of customers, who may seek, and be able to obtain, products and services comparable to those we offer in lower-cost regions of the world. If we did not increase our prices to pass on the effect of increases in the RMB relative to the U.S. dollars, our margins and profitability would suffer. We have suffered losses from hedging against our currency exchange risk. From time to time, we have attempted to hedge our currency exchange risk, but we did not engage in currency hedging transactions during 2004, 2005 and 2006. In the past, we have experienced losses as a result of currency hedging and may do so again in the future. Political and economic instability in Hong Kong could harm our operations. Some of our subsidiaries’ offices and several of our customers and suppliers are located in Hong Kong, formerly a British Crown Colony. The PRC resumed sovereignty over Hong Kong effective July 1, 1997. Since then, Hong Kong has become a Special Administrative Region of China, enjoying a high degree of autonomy except for foreign and defense affairs. China’s political system and policies are not practiced in Hong Kong. Under the principle of “one country, two systems”, Hong Kong maintains a legal system that is based on the common law and is different from that of China. It is generally acknowledged as an open question whether Hong Kong’s future prosperity in its role as a hub and gateway to China after China’s accession to the World Trade Organization, which is introducing a market liberalization in China, will be diminished. The continued stability of political, economic or commercial conditions in Hong Kong remains uncertain, and any instability could materially and adversely influence our business and operating results. Power shortages in China could affect our business. We consume substantial amounts of electricity in our manufacturing processes at our production facilities in China. Certain parts of China have been subject to power shortages in recent years. We have experienced a number of power shortages at our production facilities in China to date. We are sometimes given advance notice of power shortages and in relation to this we currently have a backup power system. However, there can be no assurance that in the future our backup power system will be completely effective in the event of a power shortage, particularly if that power shortage is over a sustained period of time and/or we are not given advance notice thereof. Any power shortage, brownout or blackout for a significant period of time may disrupt our manufacturing, and as a result, may have an adverse impact on our business. The recurrence of SARS in China, the potential outbreak of avian flu in China, or similar adverse public health developments, and concerns over the spread of these diseases in China and elsewhere, may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. From December 2002 to June 2003, China and certain other countries experienced an outbreak of a new and highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia now known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. On July 5, 2003, the World Health Organization declared that the SARS outbreak had been contained. Since September 2003, 17 Table of Contents however, a number of isolated new cases of SARS have been reported, most recently in central China in April 2004. During May and June of 2003, many businesses in China were closed by the PRC government to prevent transmission of SARS. Recently, concerns have been raised with respect to the spread of avian flu in various regions in China. Any recurrence of the SARS outbreak, outbreak of avian flu, or the development of a similar health hazard in China, may adversely affect our business and operating results. For instance, a recurrence of SARS, outbreak of avian flu or any other epidemic may lead to health or other government regulations requiring temporary closure of our business, or the businesses of our suppliers or customers, which will severely disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our products are sold internationally and the effect of business, legal and political risks associated with international operations could significantly harm us. Our products are sold internationally. There are risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: • Exposure to political and financial instability, leading to currency exchange losses, collection difficulties or other losses; • Exposure to fluctuations in the value of local currencies; • Changes in value-added tax, or VAT, reimbursement; • Imposition of currency exchange controls; and • Delays from customs brokers or government agencies. Any of these risks could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We are exposed to general economic conditions. Any slowdown in the technology products industry may affect our business and operating results adversely. In the past, as a result of the economic downturn in the United States and internationally, and reduced capital spending, sales to OEMs in the electronics industry declined substantially. While our market has recovered, we cannot assure you that this recovery is sustainable or that the industry will not again suffer declines similar to the declines that occurred in 2001 and 2002, or worse. We are exposed to impact of global business trends in the mobile phone industry, which could result in even lower gross margins on the mobile phone components and subassemblies we manufacture. During the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 84% of our sales were derived from subassemblies and components for mobile phones and mobile phone accessories. Accordingly, any fluctuations in the size of the mobile phone market, market trends, increased competition or pricing pressure of mobile phone industry may affect our business and operating results. For example, the mobile phone industry has been experiencing rapid growth, particularly from emerging economies such as India and China. The growth in these markets, however, does not necessarily translate into increased margins or growing profits as mobile phones sold in developing countries are typically stripped down to basic features and sold for low prices. Competition in developing markets is fierce, even more intense than in countries with advanced economies. Accordingly, we expect that our margins and profitability of the components and assemblies we manufacture for use in mobile phones that our customers target for emerging economies to continue to undergo severe pricing pressures, resulting in lower margins on these products than those we have experienced historically. Actual or perceived health risks associated with the use of mobile phone handsets or other communications equipment could negatively affect our business. There have been public concerns about health risks arising from electromagnetic fields generated by mobile phone handsets. Any perceived risks or new findings, regardless of their scientific foundation, concerning the potential adverse health effects of mobile communications equipment could negatively affect our reputation and brand value, or that of our direct or indirect customers, and could result in a reduction in sales. We cannot assure you that we will not become the subject of product liability claims or be held liable for such claims or be required to comply with future regulatory changes that may have an adverse effect on our business. 18 Table of Contents The market price of our shares will likely be subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations. The markets for equity securities have been volatile and the price of our common shares has been and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to variations in operating results, news announcements, trading volume, sales of common shares by our officers, directors and our principal shareholders, customers, suppliers or other publicly traded companies, general market trends both domestically and internationally, currency movements and interest rate fluctuations. The sale of the 1,017,149 of our common shares that we reinstate as a result of the November 2006 judgment of the Privy Council, or even the availability of such shares for sale, could have a negative impact on the prevailing market price of our shares. Other events, such as the issuance of common shares upon the exercise of our outstanding stock options could also materially and adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares. Further, the stock markets have often experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies and that have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common shares. The concentration of share ownership in our senior management allows them to control or substantially influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. On March 1, 2007, members of our senior management and Board of Directors as a group beneficially owned approximately 28.4% of our common shares. As a result, acting together, they may be able to control and substantially influence the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This ability may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Nam Tai, or causing a change in control of Nam Tai that may not be favored by our other shareholders. Regulatory initiatives in the United States, higher insurance costs and new and potentially new accounting pronouncements could adversely impact our future operating results and, in the case of the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s or FASB’s, recent pronouncement regarding the expensing of stock options, has adversely impacted, and will continue to, adversely impact, our financial results. In the United States, there have been regulatory changes, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and changes in the continued listing rules of the New York Stock Exchange, and new accounting pronouncements and there may be new regulatory legislation and rule and accounting changes, which may have an adverse impact on our future financial position and operating results. These regulatory changes and other legislative initiatives have increased general and administrative costs of the companies that are subject to them, including foreign private issuers like Nam Tai having securities traded in the U.S. and thereby subject to legislative and regulatory changes in the U.S. capital markets. As a result, insurers are likely to increase premiums as a result of high claims rates recently and our rates for our various insurance policies are likely to increase. The Financial Accounting Standards Board’s recent change to mandate the expensing of stock compensation has required us, and will require us, to record charges to earnings for stock option grants to employees and directors and have and will adversely affect our financial results for periods after we implemented the new pronouncement. As required, we implemented this new pronouncement on January 1, 2006. For a discussion of the recent changes in accounting standards, please refer to Note 2 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” of our consolidated financial statements. It may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against our management or us. We are a British Virgin Islands holding corporation with subsidiaries in Hong Kong, Macao, Japan and China. Substantially, all of our assets are located in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and executive officers reside within the PRC or Hong Kong, and substantially all of the assets of these persons are located within the PRC or Hong Kong. It may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside the PRC or Hong Kong upon our directors, or executive officers, including effecting service of process with respect to matters arising under United States federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. The PRC does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States and many other countries. As a result, recognition and enforcement in the PRC of judgments of a court in the United States or many other jurisdictions in relation to any matter, including securities laws, may be difficult or impossible. Furthermore, an original action may be brought in the PRC against our assets and our subsidiaries, our directors and executive officers only if the actions are not required to be arbitrated by PRC law and only if the facts alleged in the complaint give rise 19 Table of Contents to a cause of action under PRC law. In connection with any such original action, a PRC court may award civil liability, including monetary damages. No treaty exists between Hong Kong, the British Virgin Islands or Macao and the United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. However, the courts of Hong Kong and the British Virgin Islands are generally prepared to accept a foreign judgment as evidence of a debt due. An action may then be commenced in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands for recovery of this debt. A Hong Kong or British Virgin Islands court will only accept a foreign judgment as evidence of a debt due if: • the judgment is for a liquidated amount in a civil matter; • the judgment is final and conclusive and has not been stayed or satisfied in full; • the judgment is not, directly or indirectly, for the payment of foreign taxes, penalties, fines or charges of a like nature (in this regard, a Hong Kong or British Virgin Islands court is unlikely to accept a judgment for an amount obtained by doubling, trebling or otherwise multiplying a sum assessed as compensation for the loss or damage sustained by the person in whose favor the judgment was given); • the judgment was not obtained by actual or constructive fraud or duress; • the foreign court has taken jurisdiction on grounds that are recognized by the common law rules as to conflict of laws in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands; • the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained were not contrary to natural justice (i.e., the concept of fair adjudication); • the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained, the judgment itself and the enforcement of the judgment are not contrary to the public policy of Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands; • the person against whom the judgment is given is subject to the jurisdiction of the Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands court; and • the judgment is not on a claim for contribution in respect of damages awarded by a judgment, which does not satisfy the criteria stated previously. Similarly, the courts of Macao are generally prepared to accept a foreign judgment as evidence of a debt due. An action may then be commenced in Macao for recovery of this debt. A Macao court will only accept a foreign judgment as evidence of a debt due if: • there is no doubt to the authenticity of the judgment documents and the understanding of the judgment; • pursuant to the law of the place of judgment, the judgment is final and conclusive; • the judgment was not obtained by fraud or the matter in relation to the judgment is not within the exclusive jurisdiction of Macao courts; • the judgment will not be challenged on the ground that the relevant matter has been adjudicated by the Macao court, except matters which have first been adjudicated by courts outside Macao; • pursuant to the law of the place of the judgment, the defendant has been summoned and the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained were not contrary to natural justice; and • the enforcement of the judgment will not cause any orders that may result in apparent public disorder. Enforcement of a foreign judgment in Hong Kong, the British Virgin Islands or Macao may also be limited or affected by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, arrangement and moratorium, or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors’ rights generally, and will be subject to a statutory limitation of time within which proceedings may be brought. 20 Table of Contents Future issuances of preference shares could materially and adversely affect the holders of our common shares or delay or prevent a change of control. Our Board of Directors may amend our Memorandum and Articles of Association without shareholder approval to create from time to time and issue one or more classes of preference shares (which are analogous to preferred stock of corporations organized in the United States). While currently no preference shares are issued or outstanding, we may issue preference shares in the future. Future issuance of preference shares could materially and adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common shares, or delay or prevent a change of control. Our status as a foreign private issuer in the United States exempts us from certain of the reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE limiting the protections and information afforded to investors. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States public companies including: • the rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K or annual reports on Form 10-K; • the sections of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; • the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; and • the sections of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction (i.e., a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). In addition, because the Company is a foreign private issuer, certain corporate governance standards of the NYSE that are applied to domestic companies listed on that exchange may not be applicable to us. For information regarding the way our corporate governance standards have differed from those applied to US domestic issuers, see discussion under “NYSE listed Company Manual Disclosure” in Item 6. Directors and Senior Management of this Report. Because of these exemptions, investors are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States or traded on the NYSE. 