ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves a significant degree of risk. You should not invest in our common stock unless you can afford to lose your entire investment. You should consider carefully the following risk factors and other information in this report before deciding to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected and you could lose your entire investment in our company. 11 Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and there are no assurances we will ever generate profits. As of December 31, 2011 we have an accumulated deficit of approximately $114.6 million. For 2011, our operating loss from continuing operations was approximately $9.2 million and for 2010 our operating loss from continuing operations was approximately $4.6 million. While we expect to report higher revenues in 2012 following our acquisition of Vertro, there are no assurances that these additional revenues will fully offset the additional costs and result in profitable operations of the combined companies in future periods. The failure to integrate successfully the businesses of Inuvo and Vertro in the expected timeframe could adversely affect our future results following the completion of the merger. The success of the merger with Vertro will depend, in large part, on the ability of the combined company following the completion of the merger to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of Inuvo and Vertro. The failure to integrate successfully and to manage successfully the challenges presented by the integration process may result in our failure to achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits of the merger. Potential difficulties that may be encountered in the integration process include the following: ● using the combined company’s cash and other assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company; ● appropriately managing the liabilities of the combined company; ● potential unknown or currently unquantifiable liabilities associated with the merger and the operations of the combined company; ● potential unknown and unforeseen expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with the merger; and ● performance shortfalls at one or both of the companies as a result of the diversion of management’s attention caused by completing the merger and integrating the companies’ operations. There are no assurances that all of the expected benefits of the merger with Vertro will be realized. We depend on two customers for a significant portion of our revenues. Prior to the acquisition of Vertro, we received 86.6%, and 80.3%, respectively, of our net revenue for 2011 and 2010 from a single customer, Yahoo!. Vertro received approximately 81.0%, and 87.0%, respectively, of its net revenue for 2011 and 2010, from a different single customer, Google. Our current contract with Yahoo! expires in April 2013. Our current contract with Google expires December 31, 2012. The amount of revenue we receive from these customers depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including the amount they charge for advertisements, the depth of advertisements available from them, and their ability of to display relevant ads in response to our end-user queries. We will likely experience a significant decline in revenue and our business operations could be significantly harmed if: ● We fail to have websites and applications approved; ● Our paid listings providers' performance deteriorates; or ● We violate our paid listings providers' guidelines or they change their implementation guidelines. In addition, if any of these preceding circumstances were to occur, we may not be able to find a suitable alternate paid search results provider or otherwise replace the lost revenues. The loss of either of these customers or a material change in the revenue or gross profit generated by these customers will have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition in future periods. 12 Our success depends on our ability to continue and expand relationships with other Internet media content, advertising and product providers. The Internet includes an ever-increasing number of businesses that offer and market consumer products and services. Advertising providers allow us to generate advertising revenue from our downloadable products, as well as our and our affiliates’ websites. We expect that with the increasing number of entrants into the Internet commerce arena, advertising costs and joint effort marketing programs will become more competitive. Additionally, upstream advertising networks that we use may offer customers discounts as away to attract more advertisers to their network thereby reducing our revenues generated by these networks. This competitive environment might prevent us from satisfactorily executing profit generating advertising and joint effort marketing programs in the future. This competitive environment may also prevent us from providing content and product and service providers from marketing their products and services through our downloadable products, as well as our and our affiliates’ websites. If we fail to continue establishing new, and maintain and expand existing, profitable advertising and joint marketing arrangements, we may suffer substantial adverse consequences to our financial condition and results of operations. Portions of our performance marketing business are dependent upon our relationships with, and the success of, our distribution partners, including our ability to attract new distribution partners and retain existing distribution partners on favorable terms. Our performance marketing distribution partners are very important to our business. Our distribution partners may experience difficulty in attracting and retaining a substantial number of users due to, among other reasons, the rapidly changing nature of the market, technological innovation, industry consolidation, and changing consumer preferences. In addition, we may not be able to further develop and maintain relationships with distribution partners. Difficulties may arise in our relationships with distribution partners for a number of reasons, some of which are outside of our control. These distribution partners may regard us as not significant for their own businesses, may regard us as a competitor to their businesses, or find our competitors to be more attractive. Additionally, we have in the past and expect that in the future we will cease displaying advertisements through certain distribution partners whose traffic does not adequately convert to revenue for our monetization partners. Moreover, our agreements with our distribution partners vary in duration and generally are not exclusive or long-term agreements. We may not be successful in recruiting new distribution partners or renewing our existing distribution partnership agreements. If we are able to recruit new distribution partners or renew existing agreements, there is no guarantee that the new agreements will be on as favorable terms as our existing distribution basis. Any adverse changes in the business of, or our relationships with, key distribution partners or any inability on our part to obtain new distribution partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to maintain and grow our active consumer base. Our web properties segment operates a portfolio of websites and consumer-oriented interactive products including Appbars and homepages. Our web properties segment derives the majority of our revenue from advertisements directed towards consumers. The amount of revenue generated by the web properties segment is dependent on our ability to maintain and grow our user base. Factors that influence our ability to maintain and grow our active user base include, but are not limited to, government regulation, acceptance of our Appbar products and websites by consumers, the availability of advertising to promote our websites and Appbar products, third-party designation of Appbar and/or other products as undesirable or malicious, user attrition, competition, and sufficiency of capital to purchase advertising. We acquire users of our websites and ALOT products primarily through online advertising that we purchase from ad networks at prices agreed to based on expected rate of return. We have historically experienced difficulties in achieving cost effective distribution for ALOT products because we were unable to acquire our targeted number of users at desired prices. If we are unable to maintain and grow our active user base, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We base customer acquisition decisions in our web properties business primarily on our model of the predicted rate of return on new users. If the estimates and assumptions it uses in calculating the predicted rate of return for new users are inaccurate, our customer acquisition decisions may be misguided. We acquire users based on our predicted return which it calculates using estimates and assumptions and data from previously acquired users. The estimates and assumptions include estimates about user behavior and third party advertising revenue, both of which are out of our control. Estimates and assumptions used in calculating predicted rate of return may not be accurate or correct. Accordingly, the calculation of predicted rate of return may not be reflective of our actual returns. If we are unable to effectively manage our customer acquisition costs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 13 We deliver advertisements to users from third-party ad networks which exposes our users to content and functionality over which we do not have ultimate control. We display pay-per-click, banner, cost per acquisition, and other forms of Internet advertisements to users that come from third-party ad networks. We does not control the content and functionality of such third-party advertisements and, while it provides guidelines as to what types of advertisements are acceptable, there can be no assurance that such advertisements will not contain content or functionality that is harmful to users. Our inability to monitor and control what types of advertisements get displayed to users could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our credit facility with Bridge Bank imposes restrictions. Failure to comply with these restrictions could result in the acceleration of a substantial portion of such debt, which we may not be able to repay or refinance. In March 2012, we entered into a credit facility with Bridge Bank, which provides for up to $15.0 million in loans in a combination of term loans and revolving loans. The credit facility contains a number of covenants that, among other things, requires us, and certain of its subsidiaries, to: ● pay fees to the lender associated with the credit facility; ● maintain our corporate existence in good standing; ● grant the lender a security interest in our assets; ● provide financial information to the lender; and ● refrain from any transfer of any of our business or property (subject to customary exceptions). Our ability to comply with the provisions of the credit facility will be dependent upon its future performance, which may be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of its covenants could result in a default under the credit facility. In the event of any such default, Bridge Bank could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding under the credit facility, together with any accrued interest and other fees, to be due and payable, as well as require us to apply all available cash to repay the amounts. If we were unable to repay the indebtedness upon its acceleration, Bridge Bank could proceed against the underlying collateral. There can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay an amount in full, that we would be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance the indebtedness, or that we would be able to obtain a waiver to cure any such default. If we are unable to raise additional capital as needed, our ability to grow our company and satisfy our obligations as they become due will be in jeopardy. It is likely that we will need to raise significant additional capital to grow our company, fund our operating expenses and satisfy our obligations as they become due, including our revolving credit facility and term loan with Bridge Bank, N.A. Our revolving credit facility matures in 2014 and the term loan expires in February 2016. We do not have any commitments to provide this additional capital and we cannot assure you that funds are available to us upon terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we do not raise funds as needed, our ability to provide for current working capital needs and satisfy our obligations is in jeopardy. In this event, you could lose all of your investment us. 14 We compete with many companies, some of whom are more established and better capitalized than us. We compete with a variety of companies on a worldwide basis both through the Internet and in traditional markets. Some of these companies are larger and better capitalized than us. There are also few barriers to entry in our markets. Our competitors may develop services that are superior to, or have greater market acceptance than our services. For example, many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and larger customer bases than us. These factors may allow our competitors to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Our competitors may engage in more extensive research and development efforts, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns and adopt more aggressive pricing policies which may allow them to build larger registrant and membership bases. In addition, current and potential competitors are making, and are expected to continue to make, strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative, and, in some cases, exclusive relationships with significant companies or competitors to expand their businesses or to offer more comprehensive products and services. To the extent these competitors or potential competitors establish exclusive relationships with major portals, search engines and ISPs, our ability to reach potential members through online advertising may be restricted. Any of these competitors could cause us difficulty in attracting and retaining registrants and converting registrants into members and could jeopardize our existing affiliate program and relationships with portals, search engines, ISPs and other Internet properties. Failure to compete effectively including by developing and enhancing our services offerings would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Our business must keep pace with rapid technological change to remain competitive. Our business operates in a market characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product and service announcements, enhancements, and changing customer demands. We must adapt to rapidly changing technologies and industry standards and continually improve the speed, performance, features, ease of use and reliability of our services. Introducing new technology into our systems involves numerous technical challenges, requires substantial amounts of capital and personnel resources, and often takes many months to complete. We may not successfully integrate new technology into our websites on a timely basis, which may degrade the responsiveness and speed of our websites. Technology, once integrated, may not function as expected. In addition, the number of people who access the Internet through devices other than desktop and laptop computers, including mobile telephones and other handheld computing devices, has increased dramatically in the past few years. Failure to attract and retain a substantial number of mobile device users to our services, or failure to develop services that are more compatible with mobile communications devices, or failure to generally keep pace with the rapid technological change could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Our services may be interrupted due to problems with our servers, our network hardware and software, or our inability to obtain network capacity. The performance of our server and networking hardware and software infrastructure is critical to our business and reputation and our ability to attract Internet users, advertisers, members and e-commerce partners to our websites and to convert members to subscribers. We have experienced occasional system interruptions as a result of unexpected increases in usage. We cannot assure you we will not incur similar or more serious interruptions in the future. An unexpected or substantial increase in the use of our websites could strain the capacity of our systems, which could lead to a slower response time or system failures. Any slowdowns or system failures could adversely affect the speed and responsiveness of our websites and would diminish the experience for our members and visitors. Further, if usage of our websites substantially increases, we may need to purchase additional servers and networking equipment to maintain adequate data transmission speeds, the availability of which may be limited or the cost of which may be significant. Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or a decrease in the responsiveness of our websites could reduce traffic on our websites and, if sustained or repeated, could impair our reputation and the attractiveness of our brands all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, we rely on many different hardware and software systems. Failure of these systems or inability to rapidly expand our transaction-processing systems and network infrastructure in response to a significant unexpected increase in usage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. The failure to establish and maintain affiliate agreements and relationships could limit the growth of business. We have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, arrangements with affiliates to increase our member base, increase traffic to our websites and enhance our brands. If any of the current agreements are terminated, we may not be able to replace the terminated agreement with an equally beneficial arrangement. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew any of our current agreements when they expire on acceptable terms, if at all. We also do not know whether we will be successful in entering into additional agreements or that any relationships, if entered into, will be on terms favorable to us. Failure to establish and maintain affiliate agreements and relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. 15 Our business relies on a number of third-party providers, and their failure to perform or termination of our relationships with them could harm our business. We license technologies from third parties to facilitate our ability to provide our services. Any failure on our part to comply with the terms of these licenses could result in the loss of our rights to continue using the licensed technology, and we could experience difficulties obtaining licenses for alternative technologies. Furthermore, any failure of these third parties to provide these and other services, or errors, failures, interruptions or delays associated with licensed technologies, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Our business may incur liability for information retrieved from or transmitted through its applications, websites or websites linked to it. Because our business publishes or makes various information available on its applications, websites or though linked websites, we may be sued for, or incur liability related to, defamation, civil rights infringement, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, invasion of privacy, personal injury, product liability or other legal claims. Our business also offers email services subjecting us to liabilities or claims relating to unsolicited email or spamming, lost or misdirected messages, security breaches, illegal or fraudulent use of email or interruptions or delays in email service. Liability or expense relating to these types of claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Our business could be significantly impacted by the occurrence of natural disasters such as hurricanes and other catastrophic events. We maintain a data center and office in Clearwater, Florida and, are therefore, susceptible to damage from hurricanes or other tropical storms. Although we believe we have adequate backup for this data in a secure location, we may not be able to prevent outages and downtime caused by these storms or other events out of our control, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. We may incur liability if we fail to adequately protect personal information. Some segments of our business handle personally identifiable information pertaining to our users residing in the United States as well as foreign countries. Many jurisdictions have adopted privacy, security, and data protection laws and regulations intended to prevent improper use and disclosure of personally identifiable information. In addition, some jurisdictions impose database registration requirements for which significant monetary and other penalties may be imposed for failure to comply. These laws, which are subject to change and may be inconsistent, may impose costly administrative requirements, limit our handling of information, and subject us to increased government oversight and financial liabilities all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Security breaches and inappropriate Internet use could damage our business. Concerns over the security of transactions conducted on the Internet and the privacy of users may inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services generally, and online commerce in particular. Failure to successfully prevent security breaches could significantly harm our business and expose us to lawsuits. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, including customer credit card and personal data, cause interruptions in our operations, or damage our brand and reputation. Breach of our security measures could result in the disclosure of personally identifiable information and could expose us to legal liability. We cannot assure you that our financial systems and other technology resources are completely secure from security breaches or sabotage. We have experienced security breaches and attempts at “hacking.” We may be required to incur significant costs to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Further, any well-publicized compromise of our security or the security of any other Internet provider could deter people from using our services or the Internet to conduct transactions that involve transmitting confidential information or downloading sensitive materials, which might adversely affect our online dating business. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. 16 Computer viruses could damage our business. Computer viruses, worms and similar programs may cause our systems to incur delays or other service interruptions and could damage our reputation and ability to provide our services and expose us to legal liability, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. We depend on key personnel, the loss of whom could harm our business. Our success depends in part on the retention of personnel critical to our combined business operations due to, for example, unique technical skills, and management expertise or key business relationships. We may be unable to retain existing management, finance, engineering, sales, customer support, and operations personnel that are critical to our success, which may result in disruption of operations, loss of key business relationships, information, expertise or know-how, unanticipated additional recruitment and training costs, and diminished anticipated benefits of acquisitions, including loss of revenue and profitability. Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our key senior management. We do not have key-person insurance on any of our employees. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management team, or of any other key employees, could divert management’s time and attention, increase our expenses and adversely affect our ability to conduct our business efficiently. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. We may be unable to retain our key employees or attract, retain and motivate other highly qualified employees in the future. We have experienced difficulty from time to time in attracting or retaining the personnel necessary to support the growth of our business, and may experience similar difficulties in the future. Defects in our platform, disruptions in our service or errors in execution could diminish demand for our service and subject us to substantial liability. Our on-demand platform is complex and incorporates a variety of hardware and proprietary and licensed software. Internet-based services such as ours frequently experience disruptions from undetected defects when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. In addition, our recently added text messaging capabilities may hinder the performance of our platform as we have limited experience with dealing with text messaging services. From time to time we have found and corrected defects in our platform. Other defects in our platform, or defects in new features, complementary services or upgrades released in the future, could result in service disruptions for one or more clients. Our clients might use our service in unanticipated ways that cause a service disruption for other clients attempting to access their contact list information and other data stored on our platform. In addition, a client may encounter a service disruption or slowdown due to high usage levels of our service. Because clients use our service for critical business processes, any defect in our platform, any disruption in our service or any error in execution could cause existing or potential clients not to use our service, could harm our reputation, and could subject us to litigation and significant liability for damage to our clients’ businesses. We have made and anticipate making additional significant investments in new initiatives related to current and future product and service offerings that may not meet expectations in terms of the viability, success, or profitability of such initiatives. We have made and anticipate making significant investments in new initiatives related to current and proposed product and service offerings. All such new and proposed initiatives require the expenditure of significant time, money, personnel and other resources. There can be no assurance that any of these initiatives will be timely, viable, successful, and profitable or will enjoy the same margins as our historical business. An investor should consider the likelihood of our future success with respect to these and other initiatives to be speculative in light of our limited history in successfully developing, introducing, and commercially exploiting new initiatives of this nature, as well as the problems, limited resources, expenses, risks, and complications frequently encountered by similarly situated companies in emerging and changing markets, such as e-commerce, with respect to the development and introduction of initiatives of this nature. Any inability to successfully develop, introduce, or implement these or other products or services could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 17 If we fail to grow or manage our growth, our business will be adversely affected. To succeed, we must grow. We may make additional acquisitions in the future as part of our growth initiatives. These may include acquisitions of international companies or other international operations. We have limited experience in acquiring and integrating companies, and we may also expand into new lines of business in which it has little or no experience. Additionally, we may fail to achieve anticipated synergies from such acquisitions. Accordingly, our growth strategy subjects us to a number of risks, including the following: ● we may incur substantial costs, delays, or other operational or financial problems in integrating acquired businesses, including integrating each company’s accounting, management information, human resource, and other administrative systems to permit effective management; ● we may not be able to identify, acquire, or profitably manage any additional businesses; ● with smaller acquired companies, we may need to implement or improve controls, procedures, and policies appropriate for a public company; ● the acquired companies may adversely affect Our consolidated operating results, particularly since some of the acquired companies may have a history of operating losses; ● acquisitions may divert management’s attention from the operation of Our businesses; ● we may not be able to retain key personnel of acquired businesses; ● there may be cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from acquired companies into Our organization; and ● We may encounter unanticipated events, circumstances, or legal liabilities. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry We are subject to risks frequently encountered by companies in the Internet marketing and advertising industry. Our prospects for financial and operational success must be considered in light of the risks frequently encountered by companies in the Internet marketing and advertising industry. During 2011, the search alliance between Microsoft and Yahoo! adversely impacted our revenues and any continued consolidation within the search segment could result in additional decline in this portion of our business. In addition, we face other risks associated with our industry, including the need to: ● attract new clients and maintain current client relationships; ● achieve effective advertising campaign results for our clients; ● continue to expand the number of services and technologies we offer; ● successfully implement our business model, which is evolving; ● respond to pricing pressure in some of our lines of business; ● maintain our reputation and build trust with our clients; ● identify, attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; ● accurately measure impressions, searches, clicks, or other online actions for our advertisers, publishers, or partners; ● adapt to changes in online advertising, email, and other filtering software; and ● manage online credit card billing and customer service concerns. There are no assurances we will be able to effectively manage these risks. Our failure to do so could result in a decline in our revenues and impact our ability to continue as a going concern. 18 Regulatory and legal uncertainties could harm our business. While there are currently relatively few laws or regulations directly applicable to Internet access, commerce, or commercial search activity, there is increasing awareness and concern regarding some uses of the Internet and other online services, leading federal, state, local, and international governments to consider adopting civil and criminal laws and regulations, amending existing laws and regulations, conducting investigations, or commencing litigation with respect to the Internet and other online services covering issues such as: ● user privacy; ● trespass; ● defamation; ● database and data protection; ● limitations on the distribution of materials considered harmful to children; ● liability for misinformation provided over the web; ● user protection, pricing, taxation, and advertising restrictions (including, for example, limitation on the advertising on Internet gambling websites or of certain products); ● delivery of contextual advertisements via connected desktop software; ● intellectual property ownership and infringement, including liability for listing or linking to third-party websites that include materials infringing copyrights or other rights; ● distribution, characteristics, and quality of products and services; and ● other consumer protection laws. Legislation has also been introduced in the U.S. Congress and some state legislatures that is designed to regulate spyware, which does not have a precise definition, but which is often defined as software installed on consumers’ computers without their informed consent and designed to gather and, in some cases, disseminate information about those consumers, including personally identifiable information. We do not rely on spyware for any purpose, and it is not part of our product offerings, but the definition of spyware or proposed legislation relating to spyware may be broadly defined or interpreted to include legitimate ad-serving software, including toolbar offerings and other downloadable software currently provided by our product offerings. Currently, legislation has focused on providing Internet users with notification of and the ability to consent or decline the installation of such software, but there can be no guarantee that future legislation will not provide more burdensome standards by which software can be downloaded onto consumers’ computers. Currently, all downloadable software that we distribute requires an express consent of the consumer and provides consumers with an easy mechanism to delete the software once downloaded. However, if future legislation is adopted that makes the consent, notice, or uninstall procedures more onerous, we may have to develop new technology or methods to provide our services or discontinue those services in some jurisdictions or altogether. There is no guarantee we will be able to develop this new technology at all or in a timely fashion or on commercially reasonable terms. The adoption of any additional laws or regulations, application of existing laws to the Internet generally or our industry, or any governmental investigation or litigation related to the Internet generally, our industry, or our services may decrease the growth of the Internet or other online services, which could, in turn: ● decrease the demand for our services; ● increase our cost of doing business; ● preclude us from developing additional products or services; ● result in adverse publicity to us; ● subject us to fines, litigation, or criminal penalties; or ● enjoin us from conducting our business or providing any of our services; any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 19 The regulatory environment with respect to online marketing practices is also evolving. The Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, has increasingly focused on issues affecting online marketing, particularly online privacy and security issues. One of the key areas of focus for the FTC is the difference between spyware and ad-serving software, such as our downloadable toolbar applications. We may face third party intellectual property infringement claims that could be costly to defend and result in the loss of significant rights. Our current and future business activities may infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, and third parties may assert infringement claims against us, including claims alleging, among other things, copyright, trademark, or patent infringement. We are aware of allegations from time to time concerning these types of claims and in particular in respect of copyright and trademark infringement claims. While we believe that we have defenses to these types of claims under appropriate trademark laws, we may not prevail in our defenses to any intellectual property infringement claims. In addition, we may not be adequately insured for any judgments awarded in connection with any litigation. Any such claims and resulting litigation could subject us from time to time to significant liability for damages, or result in the invalidation of our proprietary rights, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Even if we were to prevail, these claims could be time-consuming, expensive to defend, and could result in the diversion of management’s time and attention. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock Our quarterly operating results can be difficult to predict and can fluctuate substantially, which could result in volatility in the price of our common stock. Our quarterly revenues and other operating results have varied in the past and are likely to continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our agreements with clients do not require minimum levels of usage or payments, and our revenues therefore fluctuate based on the actual usage of our service each quarter by existing and new clients. Quarterly fluctuations in our operating results also might be due to numerous other factors, including: ● our ability to attract new clients, including the length of our sales cycles, or to sell increased usage of our service to existing clients; ● technical difficulties or interruptions in our services; ● changes in privacy protection and other governmental regulations applicable to the our industry; ● changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; ● the financial condition and business success of our clients; ● purchasing and budgeting cycles of our clients; ● acquisitions of businesses and products by us or our competitors; ● competition, including entry into the market by new competitors or new offerings by existing competitors; ● discounts offered to advertisers by upstream advertising networks; ● our history of litigation; ● our history of uncollectable receivables; ● our ability to hire, train and retain sufficient sales, client management and other personnel; ● timing of development, introduction and market acceptance of new services or service enhancements by us or our competitors; ● concentration of marketing expenses for activities such as trade shows and advertising campaigns; ● expenses related to any new or expanded data centers; and ● general economic and financial market conditions. 20 The market price for our shares of common stock may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. The market for our common stock has recently been subject to significant disruptions that have caused substantial volatility in the prices of these securities, which may or may not have corresponded to our business or financial success. The market price for shares of our common stock has declined substantially in recent months and could decline further if Inuvo’s future operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of market analysts and investors and/or current economic or market conditions persist or worsen. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on the future market price of our common stock include: ● actual or expected fluctuations in its operating results; ● variance in its financial performance from the expectations of market analysts; ● changes in general economic conditions or conditions in its industry generally; ● changes in conditions in the financial markets; ● announcements of significant acquisitions or contracts by Inuvo or its competitors; ● its inability to raise additional capital and maintain its exchange listing; ● changes in applicable laws or regulations, court rulings and enforcement and legal actions; ● additions or departures of key management personnel; ● actions by its stockholders; ● changes in market prices for its products; and ● changes in stock market analyst research and recommendations regarding the shares of our common stock, other comparable companies or its industry generally. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. New legislation, which could be proposed or enacted at any time in the future, new regulations or changes in the regulatory climate, or the expansion, enforcement, or interpretation of existing laws could prevent us from offering some or all of our services or expose us to additional costs and expenses requiring substantial changes to our business or otherwise substantially harm our business. 21 Due to the global nature of the Internet, it is possible that multiple state, federal, or international jurisdictions might inconsistently regulate Internet activities, which would increase our costs of compliance and the risk of violating the laws of a particular jurisdiction, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Significant dilution will occur if outstanding warrants and options are exercised or restricted stock unit grants vest. As of March 28, 2012, we had warrants and stock options outstanding to purchase a total of approximately 2.0 million shares at share prices ranging from $1.09 to $32.80 per share. Also, as of March 28, 2012, we had approximately 63,000 restricted stock units outstanding. If outstanding warrants and stock options are exercised or restricted stock units vest, dilution will occur to our stockholders, which may be significant. We may not successfully defend ourselves against litigation. We are a defendant in a several pending lawsuits in which the plaintiffs are seeking damages in significant amounts. If we are not successful, one or more of these lawsuits could result in an unfavorable judgment against us. If we are unable to satisfactorily settle these lawsuits and we do not prevail in court, we may be subject to judgments in amounts which exceed our available capital which will damage our business and our ability to continue as a going concern. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable to a smaller reporting company. 