ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem insignificant may also impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of these risks could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 12 We face significant challenges and uncertainties in connection with our bankruptcy reorganization. On September 22, 2004, we and each of our wholly-owned subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under the Bankruptcy Code in the Bankruptcy Court. On January 14, 2006, Mrs. Cubbison’s, a subsidiary of which we are an eighty percent owner, filed a voluntary petition for relief under the Bankruptcy Code in the Bankruptcy Court. We currently operate our business as a debtor-in-possession pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code. We are continuing the process of stabilizing our businesses and evaluating our operations before beginning the development of a plan of reorganization. We have evaluated operations at each of our ten profit centers and have consolidated bakeries, depots, thrift stores and routes in these profit centers. In addition, we are in the process of implementing various initiatives established by our new Chief Executive Officer. These initiatives include without limitation (1) implementing a distribution system with different delivery options for our customers based on customer size, growth potential and service needs to lower our cost structure and profitably grow revenues, (2) implementing a lean manufacturing program to improve productivity, (3) improving brand management and innovation, and (4) redefining our organization to remove unnecessary layers of management and implement a matrix structure to improve communication, leadership and accountability. There can be no assurance that these initiatives will be successful. In order to implement the initiatives discussed above, we believe we need additional concessions from our unionized employees. As a result, have recently initiated talks with representatives of the two labor organizations, the Bakery Confectionery, Tobacco Workers & Grain Millers International Union and International Brotherhood of Teamsters, representing 91% of our unionized employees to achieve these concessions. We intend to seek similar concessions from all of our unionized employees. There can be no assurance we will reach agreement with our unionized employees on the concessions. As part of our restructuring efforts we are also evaluating various alternatives including, but not limited to, the sale of some or all of our assets, infusion of capital, debt restructuring and the filing of a plan of reorganization with the Bankruptcy Court, or any combination of these options. If we are unable to reach agreement on concessions with our unionized employees, we may not be able to obtain financing to allow us to emerge from bankruptcy. In addition, if we are unable to reach agreement or demonstrate substantial progress towards such an agreement, one or more of our constituents will likely oppose an extension to our plan filing and solicitation exclusivity periods (currently scheduled to expire on October 5, 2007 and December 5, 2007, respectively) or move to terminate our exclusivity periods, which could result in one or more of our constituents proposing their own plan of reorganization. Such a plan may include the sale of some or all of our assets and/or an orderly liquidation of the Company. In the event that we file a plan of reorganization with the Bankruptcy Court, the plan, along with a disclosure statement approved by the Bankruptcy Court, will be sent to creditors, equity holders and parties in interest in order to solicit acceptance of the plan. Following the solicitation, the Bankruptcy Court will consider whether to confirm the plan. If proposed, our plan of reorganization may not receive the requisite acceptance by creditors, equity holders and parties in interest, or the Bankruptcy Court may not confirm the proposed plan. Moreover, even if a plan of reorganization receives the requisite acceptance by creditors, equity holders and parties in interest and is approved by the Bankruptcy Court, the plan may not be viable. In addition, due to the nature of the reorganization process, actions may be taken by creditors and parties in interest that may have the effect of preventing or unduly delaying the filing and confirmation of a plan of reorganization in connection with the Chapter 11 process. Accordingly, we can provide no assurance as to whether or when a plan of reorganization may be filed or confirmed in the Chapter 11 process. We face uncertainty regarding the adequacy of our capital resources, including liquidity, and have limited access to additional financing. We currently have available a $200.0 million DIP Facility to potentially fund our post-petition operating expenses, supplier and employee obligations. The DIP Facility received interim approval by the Bankruptcy Court on September 23, 2004 and final approval on October 21, 2004. The DIP Facility has been amended nine times through the date of this filing. The DIP Facility subjects us to certain obligations, including the delivery of a Borrowing Base Certificate (as defined in the DIP Facility), cash flow forecasts and operating budgets at specified intervals, as well as certain limitations on the payment of indebtedness, entering into investments, the payment of capital expenditures and the payment of dividends. The DIP Facility also contains financial covenants, requiring minimum Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the DIP Facility), restricting Capital Expenditures (as defined in the DIP Facility), and limiting the amount of periodic cash restructuring charges (as defined in the DIP Facility). There can be no 13 assurance that we will be able to consistently comply with these obligations, financial covenants and other restrictive obligations in our DIP Facility. We are highly reliant on suppliers and vendors to continue to provide capital and materials for our ongoing operations. Any interruptions in our capital and materials could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition to the cash requirements necessary to fund ongoing operations, we have incurred significant professional fees and other restructuring costs in connection with the Chapter 11 process and the restructuring of our business operations and expect that we will continue to incur significant professional fees and restructuring costs. As of June 2, 2007, we had approximately $67.2 million in available cash and $90.3 million available for borrowing under the DIP Facility. This compares to the $78.2 million in available cash and $90.1 million available for borrowing under the DIP Facility as of June 3, 2006. These amounts of available cash exclude $32.9 million and $26.7 million at June 2, 2007 and June 3, 2006, respectively, related to checks written in excess of recorded balances included in accounts payable on our consolidated balance sheets. We cannot assure you that the amounts of cash from operations together with our DIP Facility will be sufficient to fund operations until such time as we are able to propose a plan of reorganization that will receive the requisite acceptance by creditors, equity holders and parties in interest and be confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court. In the event that cash flows and available borrowings under the DIP Facility are not sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements, we may be required to seek additional financing. We can provide no assurance that additional financing would be available or, if available, offered on acceptable terms. Failure to secure additional financing would have a material adverse impact on our operations. As a result of the Chapter 11 process and the circumstances leading to the bankruptcy filing, our access to additional financing is, and for the foreseeable future will likely continue to be, very limited. Our long-term liquidity requirements and the adequacy of our capital resources are difficult to predict at this time and ultimately cannot be determined until a plan of reorganization has been developed and is confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court in the Chapter 11 process. The maturity date of the DIP Facility has been extended to February 9, 2008. We may need to negotiate an additional extension of the maturity date or refinance the DIP Facility to provide adequate time to complete a plan of reorganization. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in extending or refinancing the DIP Facility or that we can extend or refinance the DIP Facility on terms favorable to us. Terms of collective bargaining agreements and labor disruptions could adversely impact our results of operations. We employ approximately 25,000 people, approximately 82% of whom are covered by one of approximately 420 union contracts. Most of our employees are members of either the International Brotherhood of Teamsters or the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers & Grain Millers International Union. Because a substantial portion of our workers are unionized, our costs are generally higher and our ability to implement productivity improvements and effect savings with respect to health care, pension and other retirement costs is more restricted than in many nonunion operations as a result of various restrictions specified in our collective bargaining agreements. Terms of collective bargaining agreements that prevent us from competing effectively could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our Chapter 11 filing and restructuring activities, including changes to our benefit programs and on-going labor negotiations in connection with our efforts to lower our cost structure and our operational restructuring process, have strained relations with certain employee groups and labor unions. We are committed to working with those groups to resolve conflicts as they arise. However, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful. We face significant challenges and uncertainties in connection with the implementation of our business plan. In February 2007, we hired a new Chief Executive Officer, Craig D. Jung, and began the next stage of restructuring activities, which initially was focused on the development of a business plan to use as a basis for a plan of reorganization. In developing such a business plan, Mr. Jung established four operating priorities for the Company: (i) profitably grow revenues; (ii) improve productivity; (iii) lower our cost structure; and (iv) create a performance culture. In order to implement these four priorities, we have determined to undertake the following initiatives, without limitation: (i) implement a distribution system with different delivery options for our customers based on 14 customer size, growth potential and service needs to lower our cost structure and profitably grow revenues, (ii) implement a lean manufacturing program to drive productivity, (iii) improve brand management and innovation, including increased investment in marketing our brands, and (iv) redefine our organization to remove unnecessary layers of management and implement a matrix structure to improve communication, leadership and accountability. On June 28, 2007, we submitted our business plan to our various constituents in the bankruptcy, including representatives of our lender syndicates and official committees of creditors and equity security holders. In order to secure rational financing required to implement this business plan, however, we believe additional concessions from our unionized employees are required. We have recently initiated talks with representatives of the two labor organizations, the Bakery Confectionery, Tobacco Workers & Grain Millers International Union and International Brotherhood of Teamsters, representing 91% of our unionized employees to achieve further concessions, including greater flexibility in the method and manner by which we distribute our products to our customers and cost reductions related to health and welfare programs. We intend to seek similar concessions from all of our unionized employees. There can be no assurance we will reach agreement with our unionized employees on the concessions. If we are unable to reach agreement, we may not be able to obtain financing to allow us to emerge from bankruptcy. In addition, if we are unable to reach agreement on concessions with our unionized employees or demonstrate substantial progress towards such an agreement, one or more of our constituents will likely oppose an extension to our plan filing and solicitation exclusivity periods (currently scheduled to expire on October 5, 2007 and December 5, 2007, respectively) or move to terminate our exclusivity periods, which could result in one or more of our constituents proposing their own plan of reorganization. Such a plan may include the sale of some or all of our assets and/or an orderly liquidation of the Company. We face significant challenges and uncertainties in connection with the development of a plan of reorganization. Using the business plan developed by our Chief Executive Officer, the Company has begun discussing one or more plans of reorganization (including an assessment of a reasonable range of values for our reorganized business and the appropriate capital structure) with our various bankruptcy constituents, and other potential sources to provide debt and equity financing to capitalize the Company for emergence from Chapter 11. In connection with evaluating various plans of reorganization, we are continuing to evaluate other restructuring alternatives including, but not limited to, the sale of some or all of our assets. There can be no assurances that the development of a plan of reorganization will be successful. If we are unable to develop a plan of reorganization, third parties may seek and obtain (i) court approval to terminate or shorten the exclusivity period provided by the Bankruptcy Court to the Company, (ii) appointment of a Chapter 11 trustee or (iii) conversion of the Chapter 11 proceeding to a Chapter 7 proceeding, among other things. Such actions could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to continue as a going concern. The Chapter 11 process and the DIP Facility impose restrictions on the conduct of our business. We are operating our business as a debtor-in-possession pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code. Under applicable bankruptcy law, during the pendency of the Chapter 11 process, we will be required to obtain the approval of the Bankruptcy Court prior to engaging in any transaction outside the ordinary course of business. In connection with seeking an approval, creditors and parties in interest may raise objections to the request for approval and may appear and be heard at any hearing with respect to the approval. Accordingly, although we may sell assets and settle liabilities (including for amounts other than those reflected on our financial statements) with the approval of the Bankruptcy Court, there can be no assurance that the Bankruptcy Court will approve any sales or proposed settlements. The Bankruptcy Court also has the authority to oversee and exert control over our ordinary course operations. The DIP Facility contains both affirmative and negative covenants pursuant to which we agree to take, or refrain from taking, certain actions. The primary on-going affirmative obligation that we are required to perform is the scheduled periodic delivery of a Borrowing Base Certificate (as defined in the DIP Facility), which reflects the components of and reserves against the Borrowing Base (as defined in the DIP Facility), establishes borrowing availability pursuant to an agreed formula, certifies as to the accuracy and completeness of the information presented and includes any documentation necessary or appropriate to support the information presented. Additionally, we are required to deliver periodic operating budgets and cash flow forecasts, as set forth in the DIP Facility. 15 The DIP Facility also contains several restrictive covenants that are typical for a debtor-in-possession credit facility of this type. The DIP Facility contains certain financial covenants requiring minimum Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the DIP Facility), restricting Capital Expenditures (as defined in the DIP Facility), and limiting the amount of periodic cash restructuring charges (as defined in the DIP Facility). In addition, the DIP Facility also imposes restrictions relating to, among other things, incurrence of liens, our ability to consolidate or merge with or into another entity, incurrence or guarantee of debt, payment of dividends, making of investments, and the disposition of assets. Failure to satisfy any of these covenants could result in an event of default that could cause, absent the receipt of appropriate waivers, an interruption in cash and letter of credit availability, which could cause an interruption of our normal operations. As a result of the restrictions described above, our ability to respond in a timely fashion to changing business and economic conditions may be significantly restricted and, absent approval by the requisite number of lenders, we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us. Our financial statements assume we can continue as a “going concern”. Our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K have been prepared assuming we can continue as a going concern. Because of the Chapter 11 process and our recurring losses from operations, negative working capital, downward sales trends, and the potential lack of liquidity should we be unable to successfully reorganize under Chapter 11, there is substantial doubt that we can continue as a going concern. Our continuation as a going concern is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to evaluate and execute various alternatives including the sale of some or all of our assets, infusion of capital, debt restructuring and the development, confirmation and implementation of a plan of reorganization, our ability to comply with the terms of the DIP Facility, our ability to negotiate an extension of or refinance our DIP Facility at its maturity, our ability to implement our restructuring activities, our ability to obtain concessions from our labor unions, our ability to obtain financing upon exit from bankruptcy and our ability to generate sufficient cash from operations to meet our obligations and any combination of these factors. In the event our restructuring activities are not successful and we are required to liquidate, additional significant adjustments would be necessary in the carrying value of assets and liabilities, the revenues and expenses reported and the balance sheet classifications used. In addition, the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K do not reflect adjustments to the carrying value of assets or the amount and classification of liabilities that ultimately may be necessary as the result of a plan of reorganization. Our reorganization will require substantial effort by management and may impact our ability to attract, retain and compensate key personnel. Our senior management has been, and will be, required to expend a substantial amount of time and effort structuring a plan of reorganization, as well as evaluating various restructuring alternatives including, but not limited to, the sale of some or all of our assets, infusion of capital and debt restructuring, or any combination of these options, which could have a disruptive impact on management’s ability to focus on the operation of our business. In addition, we have had and continue to have difficulty attracting, retaining and compensating key executives and associates and retaining personnel generally as a result of a number of problems related to the Chapter 11 process. Because of the uncertainty caused by our bankruptcy, we have had to fill a number of key management positions with consultants providing services pursuant to short term consulting agreements. There can be no assurance we can retain the services of these individuals beyond the terms of their agreements. We are no longer listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the market in our common stock is highly speculative and may not continue. Our common stock was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE, on September 23, 2004. Our common stock now trades on the over-the-counter bulletin board under the symbol “IBCIQ.PK.” Our delisting has reduced the market and liquidity of our common stock and consequently may adversely affect the ability of our stockholders and brokers/dealers to purchase and sell our shares in an orderly manner or at all. Trading in our 16 common stock through market makers and quotation on the over-the-counter bulletin board entails other risks. Due in part to the decreased trading price of our common stock and the elimination of analyst coverage, the trading price of our common stock may change quickly, and market makers may not be able to execute trades as quickly as they could when the common stock was listed on the NYSE. In addition, as a result of pre-petition indebtedness and the availability of the “cram-down” provisions of the Bankruptcy Code described in “Item 1. Business — Proceedings Under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the holders of our common stock may not receive value for their interests under a plan of reorganization. Because of this possibility, the value of our common stock is highly speculative and any investment in our common stock would pose an extremely high degree of risk. In connection with a motion filed in the Bankruptcy Court in November 2006, we described our view that, based on then-existing financial performance, it is difficult (if not impossible) to derive a current enterprise value for the Company that would result in value for the equity interests after first taking into consideration the amount of creditor claims against the Company. Potential investors in our common stock should consider the highly speculative nature of our common stock prior to making any investment decision with respect to our common stock. Implementation of various information technology systems could disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are currently implementing a new human resources management and payroll system across our Company. Additionally, we intend to upgrade and modernize other information technology systems, including an investment in new handheld computer technology that we believe is critical for the implementation of our proposed distribution system. As a result, we may experience disruptions and delays in our business, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of June 2, 2007 and weaknesses in our internal controls and procedures could adversely affect our financial condition. As discussed in Item 9A, management assessed our internal control over financial reporting as of June 2, 2007, the end of our most recent fiscal year, and concluded that material weaknesses existed and our internal control over financial reporting was not effective. We have engaged in, and are continuing to engage in, substantial efforts to improve our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures related to substantially all areas of our financial statements and disclosures. The remediation efforts are continuing and are expected to continue throughout fiscal 2008. There remains a risk that we will fail to prevent or detect a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in our remediation efforts, our financial condition, our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations accurately and in a timely manner and our ability to earn and retain the trust of our shareholders, employees, and customers, could be adversely affected. Declining demand for our products could have adverse effects on our financial results. We have experienced a significant decline in the demand for our bread products. According to data from Information Resources Incorporated (IRI), an independent market research concern that reports sales trends in most supermarkets (excluding mass merchandisers, club stores and discount stores), our total unit volume of branded bread products declined by 8.5% during fiscal 2007 from the comparable fiscal 2006 period. During fiscal 2007, revenues related to our bread products declined 3.0% from the comparable fiscal 2006 period. Data from IRI also indicates that the declining unit trend in bread products was evident in the industry during fiscal 2007. We believe that we will continue to experience reduced demand for our products. Dietary guidelines also could result in reduced demand for our bread and sweet good products. The Department of Health and Human Services and Department of Agriculture released the 2005 Dietary Guidelines for Americans in January 2005. The guidelines provide dietary advice aimed at promoting health and reducing the risk for major chronic diseases, and serve as the basis for federal food and nutrition education programs. The guidelines recommend limiting the intake of saturated and trans fats, cholesterol, added sugar, salt and alcohol. Although virtually all of our bread products and such key iconic Hostess sweet goods as Twinkies and Cupcakes have the “0 17 grams” trans fat label under the Food and Drug Administration’s labeling regulations that became effective January 1, 2006, certain of our products, primarily those that are fried or Kosher, contain trans fat, which is declared on the products’ labels. With respect to our new product offerings, we intend to introduce only those new products that can properly be labeled with the “0 grams” trans fat declaration to assist those consumers concerned about their trans fat consumption. There can be no assurance that these and other actions that we may take will offset the effect, if any, of the guidelines’ recommendation to reduce the intake of saturated and trans fats and added sugar. In addition, we have been notified by one of our large customers that they will no longer sell any of our products that contain trans fats after December 31, 2007. We are in the process of re-formulating our products to eliminate trans fats, if any. However, there can be no assurance that we will complete this project by the end of calendar 2007. If we do not complete the project by the end of calendar 2007, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. There can be no assurance that these and other actions that we may take will offset the effect, if any, of the guidelines’ recommendations. The guidelines recognize that whole grains are an important source of fiber and nutrients and recommend an increased consumption of whole grain products by substituting whole grain products for some enriched bread products. We have a number of whole grain products among our product offerings. However, the substantial majority of our bread revenues are from the sale of white bread and other refined grain bread products. There can be no assurance that, if consumers increase their consumption of whole grain products as a result of the guidelines, they will increase consumption of our whole grain product offerings. We have not been able to adequately respond to decreased demand for our bread products because we have limitations on flexibility with our costs. Our labor costs are relatively fixed. We employ approximately 25,000 people, approximately 82% of whom are covered by one of approximately 420 union contracts. Because a substantial portion of our workers are unionized, our costs are generally higher and our ability to implement productivity improvements and effect savings with respect to health care, pension and other retirement costs is more restricted than in many nonunion operations as a result of various restrictions specified in our collective bargaining agreements. We are currently in the process of renegotiating our union contracts to achieve concessions including cost reductions related to health and welfare programs. There can be no assurances we will reach agreement with our unionized employees on the concessions. We may have difficulty in maintaining relationships and material contracts with our suppliers. Although we have not had significant difficulty, in the future we may have difficulty in maintaining existing relationships with our suppliers or creating new relationships with suppliers as a result of the Chapter 11 process. Our suppliers may stop providing materials to us or provide materials on a “cash on delivery” or “cash on order” basis, or on other terms that could have an adverse impact on our short-term cash flow. Our ability to maintain arrangements with our suppliers that are critical to our operations may be adversely impacted due to supplier uncertainty regarding our cash-flow resources and the outcome of the Chapter 11 process. Failure to maintain these arrangements could have a material and immediate adverse impact on our ability to operate as a going concern. Increases in employee and employee-related costs could have adverse effects on our financial results. Historically, we have seen our health care and workers’ compensation costs increase, in some instances substantially. Our ability to pass along any cost increase in health care to our employees is limited by our collective bargaining agreements, which cover approximately 82% of our employees. Any substantial increase in health care or workers’ compensation costs may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, a shortage of qualified employees or a substantial increase in the cost of qualified employees could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Increases in prices and shortages of raw materials, fuels and utilities could cause our costs to increase. The principal raw materials used to bake our fresh bread and sweet goods, including flour, sugar and edible oils, and the paper, films and plastics used to package our products, are subject to substantial price fluctuations, and some raw materials are at historically high prices. The prices for raw materials are influenced by a number of factors, including the weather, crop production, transportation and processing costs, government regulation and policies, worldwide market supply and demand and alternative demand for raw materials, such as the recent demand for corn for use in the production of ethanol. Commodity prices have historically been volatile and may continue to be 18 volatile. Any substantial increase in the prices of raw materials may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We enter into contracts to be performed in the future, generally with a term of one year or less, to purchase raw materials at fixed prices to protect us against price increases. These contracts could cause us to pay higher prices for raw materials than are available in the spot markets. We rely on utilities to operate our business. For example, our bakeries and other facilities use natural gas, propane and electricity to operate. In addition, our distribution operations use gasoline and diesel fuel to deliver our products. For these reasons, substantial future increases in prices for, or shortages of, these fuels or electricity could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Price increases could reduce demand for our products. In late fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007, we implemented significant price increases for many of our products. In addition, commodity costs continue to rise which could necessitate additional price increases. The increased prices could have a negative effect on consumer demand for our products and our sales and profits. Competition could adversely impact our results of operations. The baking industry is highly competitive. Competition is based on product quality, price, customer service, brand recognition and loyalty, effective promotional activities, access to retail outlets and sufficient shelf space and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. We compete with large national bakeries, smaller regional operators, small retail bakeries, supermarket chains with their own bakeries, grocery stores with their own in-store bakery departments or private label products and diversified food companies. Some of these competitors are more diversified and many have greater financial resources than we do. Customer service, including responsiveness to delivery needs and maintenance of fully stocked shelves, is an important competitive factor and is central to the competition for retail shelf space. From time to time, we experience price pressure in certain of our markets as a result of our competitors’ promotional pricing practices. Excess industry capacity could also result in price pressure in certain markets. As a result, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products to respond to competitive and customer pressures and to maintain market share. Such pressures also may restrict our ability to increase prices in response to raw material and other cost increases. Any reduction in prices as a result of competitive pressures, or any failure to increase prices when raw material costs increase, would harm profit margins and, if our sales volumes fail to grow sufficiently to offset any reduction in margins, our results of operations will suffer. In order to protect our existing market share or capture increased market share in this highly competitive retail environment, we continue to promote our products, advertise and introduce and establish new products. Due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, our actions may not prove successful in maintaining or enhancing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits. In addition, we may incur increased credit and other business risks as a result of competing for customers in a highly competitive retail environment. We may be obligated to make additional contributions, or incur withdrawal liability, to multi-employer pension plans. We have collective bargaining agreements with our unions that stipulate the amount of contributions that we and other companies must make to union-sponsored, multi-employer pension plans in which our employees participate. Under our collective bargaining agreements, we are obligated to make contributions to a number of multi-employer plans which cover the majority of our employees. Benefits under these plans generally are based on a specified amount for each year of service. We contributed $115.7 million, $125.8 million, and $133.5 million to all of our multi-employer plans in fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. Based on the most recent information available to us, we believe that certain of the multi-employer pension plans to which we contribute are substantially underfunded. Multi-employer pension plans generally are managed by trustees, who are appointed by management of the employers participating in the plans (including our company, in some cases) and the affiliated unions, and who have fiduciary obligations to act prudently and in the best interests of the plan’s participants. For example, in the past we received notice from the trustees of one multi-employer plan to which we contribute requesting an increase in the 19 amount of our contributions to the plan. We may also receive similar requests from other plans to which we contribute. Thus, while we expect contributions to these plans to continue to increase as they have in recent years, the amount of increase will depend upon the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees, the actual return on assets held in these plans and the rate of employer withdrawals from the plans, as discussed below. Pension reform legislation passed in August 2006 will establish certain funding measures for multi-employer pension plans which could also result in heightened contribution obligations in certain circumstances. Under current law, an employer that withdraws or partially withdraws from a multi-employer pension plan may incur withdrawal liability to the plan, which represents the portion of the plan’s underfunding that is allocable to the withdrawing employer under very complex actuarial and allocation rules under the Employee Retirement Income Act of 1974 (ERISA). Current information regarding the funding status and potential withdrawal liability allocable to the Company is not routinely made available by multi-employer pension plans. However, based on publicly available information and limited information available from the plans, both of which are often dated and not subject to independent verification, we believe that our total contingent liability in the event of our complete withdrawal from all multi-employer plans to which we contribute would be in a range from $800 million to $950 million. This range does not reflect recent investment returns on plan assets or actuarial experience of the plans, both of which could materially impact the amount of withdrawal liability on a given date. This range also does not reflect a potential increase in our liability as the result of the partial or complete withdrawal of other employers participating in the plans. If employers that withdraw or partially withdraw from a multi-employer pension plan are not able or fail to pay their withdrawal liability to the plan, by reason of bankruptcy or otherwise, the remaining participating employers in the plan must meet the plan’s funding obligations and are responsible for an increased portion of the plan’s underfunding. The decline in the value of assets held by certain of the multi-employer pension plans to which we contribute, coupled with the high level of benefits generally provided by the plans and the inability or failure of withdrawing employers to pay their withdrawal liability, has dramatically increased the underfunding of these plans in recent years. As a result, and in light of pension reform legislation at the federal level, we expect that our contributions to these plans will continue to increase and the plans’ benefit levels, underfunding and related issues will continue to create challenges for us and other employers in the bakery and trucking industries. When we close bakeries, distribution centers and retail outlets, we may incur withdrawal liabilities with respect to underfunded multi-employer pension plans. In fiscal 2004, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006, we closed four, three and seven bakeries, respectively and, in connection with our restructuring activities, we may close additional bakeries, routes, bakery outlets and distribution centers. Any assessments for any withdrawal liability that we might incur by future closures will be recorded when the affected plans determine that it is probable that a liability exists and that the amount of the withdrawal liability can be reasonably estimated. Additionally, ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code and related regulations establish minimum funding requirements for multi-employer pension plans. Pension reform legislation passed in August 2006 could result in heightened contribution obligations for certain of the multi-employer plans to which we contribute. If any of these plans fail to meet these requirements and the trustees of these plans are unable to obtain waivers of the requirements from the Internal Revenue Service or reduce benefits to a level where the requirements are met, the Internal Revenue Service could impose excise taxes on us and the other employers participating in these plans, or we and the other employers may need to make additional funding contributions beyond the contractually agreed rates to correct the funding deficiency and avoid the imposition of such excise taxes. If excise taxes were imposed on us, or we make additional contributions, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For the forgoing reasons, we are unable to determine the amount of actual future contributions, excise taxes or withdrawal liabilities, if any, for which we may be responsible or whether an adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could result from our participation in these plans. Future cash contribution obligations to the American Bakers Association Retirement Plan, or the ABA Plan, are expected to significantly exceed previous contributions to the ABA Plan. As a result of the review of the ABA Plan begun in December 2004, we have recorded a significant net pension liability. Since January 2006, we have been notified of $35.5 million of required contributions which we have not paid and due to our severely underfunded position within the plan, future cash contribution obligations could continue to significantly exceed levels experienced in calendar years prior to 2006. Our responsibility to make all of these payments, as well as the timing of such payments, may be impacted by application of the Bankruptcy Code and/or other applicable law, including the August 8, 2006 determination from the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation that the ABA Plan is a multiple employer plan, as had been asserted by the Company and disputed by the ABA Plan, as well as pension reform legislation enacted by Congress. 20 We rely on the value of our brands, and the costs of maintaining and enhancing the awareness of our brands are increasing. We believe that maintaining our brands via marketing and other brand-building efforts is an important aspect of our efforts to attract and expand our consumer base. However, the costs associated with maintaining and enhancing consumer awareness of our brands are increasing. We may not be able to successfully maintain or enhance consumer awareness of our brands and, even if we are successful in our branding efforts, such efforts may not be cost-effective. In addition, our Chapter 11 filing may have an adverse impact on the reputation of our brands with consumers. If we are unable to maintain or enhance consumer awareness of our brands in a cost effective manner, it would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Economic downturns could cause consumers to shift their food purchases from our branded products to lower priced items. The willingness of consumers to purchase premium branded food products depends in part on national and local economic conditions. In periods of economic downturns or uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more private label or other lower priced products. If this were to happen, our sales volume of higher margin branded products could suffer, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Inability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences may result in decreased demand for products. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. Consumer preferences change, and our failure to anticipate, identify or react to these changes could result in reduced demand for our products, which could in turn adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have recently introduced several new products and improved products in order to achieve and retain market share and have incurred significant development and marketing costs in connection therewith. If our products fail to meet consumer preferences, then our strategy to maintain and grow sales and profits with new products will be less successful. Our intellectual property rights are valuable and any inability to protect them could dilute our brand image and adversely affect our business. We regard our trademarks, including “Wonder®,” “Hostess®,” “Home Pride®,” “Butternut®,” “Dolly Madison®,” “Drake’s®,” and “Merita®,” as well as our trade secrets and similar intellectual property, as important to our success. The efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. In the event that any of our proprietary information is misappropriated, our business could be seriously harmed. For example, if we are unable to protect our trademarks from unauthorized use, our brand image may be harmed. Other parties may take actions that could impair the value of our proprietary rights or the reputation of our products. Any impairment of our brand image could cause our enterprise value to decline. Also, we may not be able to timely detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property and take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. In the event we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, protecting our intellectual property and other proprietary rights can be expensive. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A number of our brands are also manufactured and produced pursuant to licensing agreements. Our ability to renew these licensing agreements as they come due may be made more difficult by the Chapter 11 process, which could also adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further consolidation in the retail food industry may adversely impact profitability. As supermarket chains continue to consolidate and as mass merchants gain scale, our larger customers may seek more favorable terms for their purchases of our products, including increased spending on promotional programs. Sales to our larger customers on terms less favorable than our current terms could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 21 Future product recalls or safety concerns could adversely impact our business and financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to recall certain of our products should they become contaminated or be damaged. We may also become involved in lawsuits and legal proceedings if it is alleged that the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. A product recall or an adverse result in any such litigation could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We could be adversely affected if consumers in our principal markets lose confidence in the safety and quality of our products. Adverse publicity about the safety and quality of certain food products, such as the publicity about foods containing genetically modified ingredients, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. A number of our brand names are owned, and products are produced and sold under these brand names, by third parties outside the U.S. Product recalls or adverse publicity about the safety and quality of these products could discourage consumers from buying our products, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Costs associated with environmental compliance and remediation could adversely impact our operations. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that impose environmental controls on us or otherwise relate to environmental protection and health and safety matters, including, among other things, the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the handling, use, treatment, storage and cleanup of solid and hazardous wastes, and the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater affected by regulated substances. We have underground storage tanks at various locations throughout the U.S. that are subject to federal and state regulations establishing minimum standards for these tanks and where necessary, remediation of associated contamination. We are presently in the process of or have completed remediating any known contaminated sites. In addition, we have received a request for information from the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, relating to our handling of regulated refrigerants. The EPA has not assessed any fines relating to this matter to date; however, the EPA may do so in the future. We have also received notices from the EPA, state agencies, and/or private parties seeking contribution, that we have been identified as a potentially responsible party, or PRP, under CERCLA, arising out of the alleged disposal of hazardous substances at certain disposal sites on properties owned or controlled by others. Because liability under CERCLA may be imposed retroactively without regard to fault, we may be required to share in the cleanup cost of five “Superfund” sites. Our ultimate liability may depend on many factors, including (i) the volume and types of materials contributed to the site, (ii) the number of other PRPs and their financial viability and (iii) the remediation methods and technology to be used. It is difficult to quantify the potential financial impact of actions involving environmental matters, particularly fines, remediation costs at waste disposal sites and future capital expenditures for environmental control equipment at these or other presently unknown locations. We believe the ultimate liability arising from such environmental matters, taking into account established accruals for estimated liabilities, should not be material to our overall financial position, but could be material to our results of operations or cash flows for a particular quarter or fiscal year. Government regulation could adversely impact our operations. Our operations and properties are subject to regulation by federal, state and local government entities and agencies. As a baker of fresh baked bread and sweet goods, our operations are subject to stringent quality, labeling and traceability standards, including under the Federal Food and Drugs Act of 1906 and Bioterrorism Act of 2002, and rules and regulations governing trade practices, including advertising. Our operations are also subject to federal, state and local workplace laws and regulations, including the federal Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 and the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970. Future compliance with or violation of such regulations, and future regulation by various federal, state and local government entities and agencies, which could become more stringent, may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We could also be subject to litigation or other regulatory actions arising out of government regulations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 22 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 