ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks regarding our Company. These and other risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. You should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report. Our results of operations are highly dependent on our sales during the winter holiday season and the Father’s Day selling season. A high percentage of our annual sales and substantially all of our annual income from operations have historically been attributable to the winter holiday selling season. In addition, our sales in our second fiscal quarter are generally higher than sales during the first and third quarters as a result of sales in connection with Father’s Day. Like many retailers, we must make merchandising and inventory decisions for the winter holiday selling season and the Father’s Day selling season well in advance of actual sales. Accordingly, unfavorable economic conditions, weather conditions and/or deviations from projected demand for products during these seasons could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the entire fiscal year. While we have implemented certain measures to improve our results during periods outside of the winter holiday selling season and the Father’s Day selling season, such as the opening of stores in airports, we expect that our annual results of operations will remain dependent on our performance during the winter holiday selling season, and to a lesser extent, on our performance during the Father’s Day selling season. Our ability to introduce innovative merchandise and updated products may impact our sales and profitability. Successful implementation of our merchandising strategy depends on our ability to introduce in a timely manner new or updated products, which are affordable, functional in purpose, distinctive in quality and design and not widely available from other retailers. We expect that the popularity of a product or group of related products of the types we typically offer will be limited in time due to the continual changing nature of consumer preferences. In addition, if our products or substitutes for such products become widely available from other retailers (including mass-retailers, department stores or discount retailers), demand for these products from us may decline or we may be required to reduce our retail prices. If a competitor of our Company were to offer for sale new and innovative products that we did not offer for sale, customer demand for our goods could decline. A decline in the demand for, or a reduction in the retail prices of, our important existing products can cause declines in our sales and profitability if we are unable to introduce in a timely fashion new or replacement products of similar sales levels and profitability. Even with innovative merchandising, there remains a risk that the products will not sell at planned levels. 11 Table of Contents Changes in consumer preferences could adversely affect our business. Our business in general is subject to changing consumer and industry trends, demands and preferences. Our continued success depends largely on the introduction and acceptance by our customers of new product lines and improvements to existing product lines that respond to such trends, demands and preferences. Trends within the industry change often and our failure to anticipate, identify or react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, rejection of a new product line and reduced demand and price reductions for our products, and could materially adversely affect us. In addition, we may not have sufficient resources to make necessary investments or we may be unable to make the advances necessary to develop new products or improve our existing products to maintain our market position. We are exposed to product liability claims and intellectual property infringement claims. Although we seek to maintain quality standards at a high level, our products may have defects that could result in high rates of return, recalls or product liability claims. Such returns, recalls or claims could adversely affect profitability. Third parties may assert claims for patent or trademark infringement, or violation of other proprietary rights. If successful, such claims could result in the inability to sell a particular product or, in the case of a settlement or royalty, adversely impact the profitability of the product and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Such claims could entail significant legal expenses even if they are ultimately resolved in our favor. Our ability to protect our proprietary technology is uncertain and our inability to protect these rights could impair our competitive advantage and cause us to incur substantial expense to enforce our rights. We actively pursue and protect, domestically and internationally, our corporate trademarks and other intellectual property rights to ensure that the quality of our brands and the value of our proprietary rights are maintained. We seek patents to establish and protect our proprietary rights relating to the technologies and products we have developed, are in the process of developing, or that we may develop in the future. We have taken and will continue, in the future, to take steps to broaden and enhance our patent protection for our proprietary products. We cannot assure you that a third party will not infringe upon or design around any patent issued or licensed to us, or that these patents will otherwise be commercially viable. Litigation to establish the validity of patents, to defend against patent infringement claims of others and to assert patent infringement claims against others can be expensive and time-consuming even if the outcome is favorable to us. If the outcome is unfavorable to us, we may be required to pay damages, stop production and sales of infringing products or be subject to increased competition from similar products. We have taken and may, in the future, take steps to enhance our patent protection, but we cannot assure you that these steps will be successful or that, if unsuccessful, our patent protection will be adequate. We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive position. We attempt to protect our proprietary technology in large part by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and other contractors. We cannot assure you, however, that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that competitors will not know of or independently discover our trade secrets. Existing or future governmental regulations and legal uncertainties, including those relating to consumer protection, could have a material impact on our business or results from operations. Our Company and its operations are subject to numerous laws, regulations and governmental policies and procedures on the international, federal, state and local levels, including, but not limited to, laws, regulations, policies, procedures, rulings, interpretations, or other governmental or quasi-governmental practices, regarding corporate governance, commerce, customs, international trade, labor and employment, importation tax, securities, accounting, and other laws and regulations which are, or are found to be, applicable to us. Changes to this legal and regulatory framework, or to any individual law or regulation, or governmental policy or procedure to which we are now, or are determined to be in the future, subject, could have a material impact on our business or results from operations. 12 Table of Contents In addition, we are subject to federal, state, local and foreign consumer protection laws and regulations, including laws prohibiting unfair and deceptive trade practices. The violation of these laws may result in actions by governmental agencies or give rise to private rights of action, including class action lawsuits. If any of these claims are successful, it could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, any amendments to these regulations may force us to change certain aspects of our business which may materially adversely affect our results of operations. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to open new stores and temporary locations. Our ability to open new stores, including airport locations, and to operate our temporary location program successfully depends upon, among other things, our capital resources and our ability to locate suitable sites, negotiate favorable rents and other lease terms and implement our operational strategy. In addition, because our store designs must evolve over time so that we may effectively compete for customers in top malls, airports and other retail locations, actual store-related capital expenditures may vary from historical levels due to such factors as the scope of remodeling projects, general increases in the costs of labor and materials and unusual product display requirements. If our leases terminate or are not renewed upon expiration, we could be required to make significant capital expenditures to relocate our retail stores. All of our retail stores are leased. There can be no assurance that upon termination or expiration of these leases we will be able to renew them on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to renew such leases, we could be required to make significant capital expenditures to relocate our retail stores. We operate in a very competitive business environment. The U.S. retail industry is highly competitive. We compete against large international and national players, as well as many regional competitors. Some of our principal competitors may be less highly leveraged than we are and have greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able to withstand changes in conditions within the industries in which we operate, and may have significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we do. These competitors could increase their market share and cause us to lose business from our customers. As a result of this competitive environment, we face and will continue to face pressure on sales prices of our products from competitors. As a result of these pricing pressures, we may in the future experience reductions in our profit margins, revenues or sales. In addition, we will need to invest continuously in customer service and support, marketing and our sales force. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase either current market share of our products or our price and operating margins successfully in the future. Our business will suffer if certain key officers or employees discontinue employment with us or if we are unable to recruit and retain highly skilled personnel. The success of our business is materially dependent upon the skills, experience and efforts of our executive officers and certain of our other members of senior management and employees. The loss of one or more members of senior management or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our business also depends on our ability to continue to recruit, train and retain skilled employees, particularly highly-skilled and motivated, full-time and temporary associates with appropriate retail experience to work in management and in our stores and temporary locations. Further, because of the limited time periods during which temporary locations are open each year, the availability of suitable associates for such locations is limited. The market for these resources is highly competitive. The loss of the services of any key personnel, or our inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills, could impair our ability to develop new products or enhance existing products, sell products to our customers or manage our business effectively. 13 Table of Contents Our business may be negatively impacted by poor economic conditions. Our business has been and may in the future be impacted by economic conditions that tend to reduce the level of discretionary consumer spending. These conditions include high interest rates, inflation, unemployment, stock market uncertainty and low consumer confidence. Computer systems or telephone services failures could have a material adverse effect on us. Our success is dependent upon our computer hardware and software systems and our telecommunications systems. The internet portion of the direct marketing segment relies heavily on the proper operation of these systems, as well as on the continued operation of the external components of the internet, to market goods and to receive and process orders. The retail segment utilizes point of sale computers located in the stores. Our headquarters and distribution center rely on a wide variety of applications to carry on the business. These systems are subject to damage from natural disasters, power failures, hardware and software failures, security breaches, including breaches involving customer credit card information, network failures, computer viruses and operator negligence. Should one of these systems fail or be inadequate to support future growth, our results could be materially and adversely impacted. We are also dependent on certain vendors of our key information systems. Should these vendors experience financial difficulties, the support of these key systems could be negatively impacted. Disruptions at our distribution center, including potential labor disputes and work stoppages, could significantly increase our distribution costs and therefore adversely affect our financial performance. We conduct the majority of our distribution operations and a significant portion of our direct marketing processing functions from our facility in Mexico, Missouri. A disruption in operations at the distribution center may significantly increase our distribution costs and prevent goods from flowing to stores and customers. We use third-party carriers for our product shipments. The distribution of products is vulnerable to disruption from employee strikes and labor unrest, in particular, potential strikes by UPS employees and/or longshoremen, which could increase costs and impede or restrict the supply of goods. The success of our direct marketing operations are dependent on various factors, including the receipt of adequate customer response to mailings and rising paper and postal rates. The success of our catalog operation hinges on the achievement of adequate response rates to mailings, merchandising and catalog presentation that appeal to mail order customers and the expansion of the potential customer base in a cost-effective manner. Lack of consumer response to particular catalog mailings could increase the costs and decrease the profitability of the direct marketing segment. Significant costs relative to paper, postage and inventory are associated with the direct marketing segment. Rising paper, printing and postal rates can negatively impact the business and the failure to accurately predict consumer response or to achieve the optimum cost-effective level of catalog circulation could adversely affect revenues and growth of the business. In addition, terrorism perpetrated via the U.S. mail or threats thereof could have a material adverse impact on our catalog business. Because we depend on a core group of significant vendors, our operating results may be adversely affected by the loss of these key vendors or if these key vendors are unable to continue to fill our orders for their products. Because we strive to sell only unique merchandise, adequate substitutes for certain key products may not be widely available in the marketplace. There can be no assurance that vendor manufacturing or distribution problems, or the loss of our exclusive rights to distribute important products, would not have a material adverse effect on our performance. In Fiscal 2006, we had one vendor who supplied products representing approximately 13% of net sales, with our 10 largest vendors representing approximately 42% of net sales. Our operating results could be adversely affected if any of our 10 largest vendors were unable to continue to fill our orders for such vendor’s products or failed to fill those orders in a timely way. Our dependence on foreign vendors subjects us to possible delays in receipt of merchandise and to the risks involved in foreign operations. We are purchasing an increasing portion of our merchandise from foreign vendors, including, but not limited to, Asia. Although we expect this strategy to increase profit margins for these products, our reliance 14 Table of Contents on such vendors subjects us to associated legal, social, political and economic risks, including, but not limited to, import, licensing and trade restrictions. In particular, economic relations between the United States and China have historically had a potential for volatility, the recurrence of which could have a material adverse impact on our operations and results. There is increasing political pressure on China to permit the exchange rate of its currency, the Chinese Yuan (“CNY”), to float against the U.S. Dollar (“USD”). Although substantially all of our supply contracts in China are denominated in USD, our suppliers could attempt to renegotiate these contracts and increase costs to us if the CNY/USD exchange rate were to change. We are also subject to the risk that the manufacturers abroad who ultimately manufacture our products may employ labor practices that are not consistent with acceptable practices in the United States. In any such event, we could be hurt by negative publicity with respect to those practices and, in some cases, face liability for those practices. Additionally, we are highly dependent upon steamship lines and air cargo companies to transport this merchandise from overseas to the United States and as such, we remain vulnerable to equipment shortages and labor stoppage, as well as terror alerts and acts of terrorism, both at the ports and countries of origins and in the United States. In such a situation, we could face inventory shortages in certain products, increased transportation costs and increased interest expense as a result of moving inventory receipts forward. The expansion of our business into international markets would expose us to certain risks. We may expand the Brookstone concept into Asia and may also expand into other international markets. We cannot assure you that we will maintain significant operations internationally or that any such operations will be successful. Any international operations we establish will be subject to risks similar to those affecting our existing operations in the United States in addition to a number of other risks, including: • political and economic instability in foreign markets; • inconsistent product regulation by foreign agencies or governments; • imposition of product tariffs and burdens; • cost of complying with a wide variety of international and U.S. export laws and regulatory requirements; • foreign currency fluctuations; • difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights; and • language and other cultural barriers. We currently do not plan to acquire political risk insurance in the countries in which we will conduct business. While we will carefully consider the risks in countries where we are evaluating investment opportunities, we cannot assure you that we will not be materially adversely affected as a result of such risks. Interruptions in deliveries of raw materials and/or increased prices for raw materials used in our products could adversely affect our profitability, margins and revenues. The raw materials used to manufacture the products we sell and our distribution and labor costs are subject to availability constraints and price volatility, which could result in increased costs. The raw materials used to manufacture the products we sell are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high demand for such products and their components, currency fluctuations, factory capacity, competition for suppliers and factories, weather, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. In addition, our transportation and labor costs are subject to price volatility caused by the price of oil, supply of labor, governmental regulations, economic climate, currency fluctuations and other unpredictable factors. Increases in demand for, or the price of, raw materials, distribution services and labor could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since we rely significantly on foreign sources of raw materials and production, we are at risk from a variety of factors that could leave us with inadequate or excess inventories, resulting in decreased profits or losses. 15 Table of Contents Increases in petroleum prices may increase our transportation and shipping costs and the costs of certain of our products, which could lead to a decrease in sales. In recent years, increases in petroleum prices have resulted in increased transportation and shipping costs for our Company. Further increases in petroleum prices such as those recently experienced as a result of Hurricane Katrina, or failure of such prices to decline, could continue to increase our costs for transportation and shipping and also could cause increases in the cost of goods that are manufactured from plastics and other petroleum-based products. In addition, increased petroleum prices may lead to increased airfares, which could cause a decrease in sales. Fluctuating exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability and revenues. We conduct a substantial part of our business in the U.S., and therefore our profitability and revenues may be adversely affected by fluctuating exchange rates. We are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenues. We cannot assure you that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Government regulation and other uncertainties relating to the internet and online commerce could negatively impact our internet business. As a greater proportion of our sales are made via the internet, and as we begin to look more to that channel to increase overall sales, we will become increasingly subject to the uncertainties inherent in the developing area of e-commerce. Such uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the extent to which our customers will adopt the internet as their method of purchase, the effect that government regulation of the internet (or lack thereof) will have on the internet as a medium of commerce, as well as the reliability, stability and security of the internet and World Wide Web. Health epidemics, terror alerts, terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may adversely affect our sales. The United States Federal Government terror alerts have a negative effect on retail sales as they cause a disruption of consumer shopping patterns. Our stores are located predominantly in large public areas such as malls and airports, which experience a significant decrease in traffic during periods of high alert. Our stores are dependent on pedestrian traffic for sales volume. Terror alerts and acts of terrorism that affect such traffic could have a materially adverse impact on sales. Terror alerts related to acts of terrorism perpetrated via the U.S. mail could also have a material adverse impact on our catalog business. A significant portion of our sales is generated at our airport store locations. Additionally, we market a wide range of products attractive to the traveling public. A decrease in traffic due to war, terrorism, health epidemics, cost increases to the consumer, or the consolidation of the airline industry caused by merger and bankruptcy and the consequent reduction of flights and available destinations could negatively affect the volume of business at our airport store locations and could depress the sales of travel-related merchandise. The outbreak of unexpected disease threats such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), influenza, and insect-borne diseases such as encephalitis and the West Nile virus could negatively impact our sales. Travel restrictions to certain parts of the world could impair our activities with some of our vendors that could result in product shortages and could slow new product development. Additionally, any reduction in travel could depress sales at our airport locations and reduce sales of our travel-related merchandise. Fear of contagion could cause a drop in traffic at all of our store locations with a consequent drop in sales. Extreme weather conditions may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Extreme weather conditions in regions in which we source our products or the areas in which our stores are located could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Major international catastrophes such as tsunamis, hurricanes and earthquakes could adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including but not limited to, store closures, reduced sales, performance delays, product shortages and increased costs, all of which are beyond our control and cannot be 16 Table of Contents anticipated. For example, Hurricane Katrina forced us to close five of our stores, temporarily. All five stores have since been re-opened. Also, heavy snowfall or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period might make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores. Our business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. These prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Sponsors’ interests may conflict with the interests of other securityholders of the Company. The Sponsors and their affiliates and designees indirectly collectively beneficially own approximately 96.5% of our outstanding voting securities. As a result, our Sponsors are collectively in a position to control all matters affecting us, including decisions regarding extraordinary business transactions, fundamental corporate transactions, appointment of members to our management, election of directors and our corporate and management policies. The interests of our Sponsors could conflict with the interests of other securityholders of the Company. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of our Sponsors might conflict with the interests of other securityholders of the Company. Our Sponsors may also have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions, including dividend payments to the holders of our equity, that in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to other securityholders of the Company. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health. We currently have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 30, 2006, we had total net indebtedness of $191.2 million (of which $183.2 million consisted of the senior secured notes, net of discount on the notes of $1.8 million, and the balance consisted of other debt). Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our investors. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the senior secured notes; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the indenture for the senior secured notes and our senior secured credit facility contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Based on our current level of operations and anticipated cost savings and operating improvements, we believe our cash flow from operations, available cash and available borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, will be adequate to meet our future liquidity needs at least until the maturity date of our senior secured credit facility. 17 Table of Contents We cannot assure you, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our senior secured credit facility and the senior secured notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. For Fiscal 2006, we are not required to evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which may lead to our investors losing confidence in our reported financial information. As a result of becoming a privately held company upon the consummation of the Transaction, we are not an accelerated filer within the meaning of Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act and will not be subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 until our Fiscal year ending December 29, 2007. Section 404 requires management of a reporting company to annually review, assess and disclose the effectiveness of a company’s internal controls over financial reporting and to obtain a report by the reporting company’s independent auditors addressing such assessments. To the extent that we do make the assessments and disclosures as to our internal controls over financial reporting provided for by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy of our reported financial information. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 18 Table of Contents 