Risk Factors described in Item 1A of this report, as well as other factors, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in a forward-looking statement made in this report or elsewhere by us or on our behalf. These factors are not necessarily all of the important factors that could affect us. Unpredictable or unknown factors that we have not discussed in this report could also have material adverse effects on actual results of matters that are the subject of our forward-looking statements. We advise our security holders that they should (i) be aware that important factors we do not refer to above could affect the accuracy of our forward-looking statements and (ii) use caution and common sense when considering our forward-looking statements. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The chlor-alkali industry is cyclical and subject to periodic downturns, so accordingly, our operating results should be expected to be cyclical and subject to periodic downturns. The chlor-alkali industry is cyclical, both as a result of changes in demand for chlorine and caustic soda, and as a result of the large increments in which new production capacity is added in the industry. Prices for both chlorine and caustic soda typically respond rapidly to changes in supply and demand. Our historical operating results reflect the cyclical nature of our industry. We experience cycles of fluctuating supply and demand in our chlor-alkali products business, which results in changes in selling prices. Periods of high demand, tight supply and increasing operating margins tend to result in increased capacity and production in the industry until supply exceeds demand, generally followed by periods of oversupply and declining prices. Because of the cyclical nature of our business, our pricing or profitability in the future may not be comparable to any particular historical period. See Item 1. “Business — Marketing, Production and Transportation”, and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The chlor-alkali industry may experience adverse trends in the future, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The following factors contribute to the cyclical nature of our operating results: • Sensitivity to cyclical demand from our customers and general economic conditions. The businesses of most of our customers are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have historically experienced periodic downturns. These economic and industry downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, excess manufacturing capacity and, in most cases, lower average sales prices. Therefore, any significant downturn in our customers’ markets or in global or domestic economic conditions could result in a reduction in demand for our products and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, while we only sell a small percentage of our products overseas, our business is affected by general economic conditions outside of North America since many of our customers sell a portion of their products outside of North America. While demand for both chlorine and caustic soda has been strong during the past year, a decline in domestic and global economic conditions could materially adversely affect demand for our products in the future. • Cyclical imbalances in chlorine and caustic soda demand and production constraints. Because chlorine and caustic soda are produced in a fixed ratio, the supply of one product can be constrained both by the physical capacity of the production facilities and the ability to sell and store the co-product. When chlorine demand is high and production increases as a result, the price of caustic soda may be depressed if there is insufficient demand for the increased supply. This imbalance may have the effect of reducing our operating profits, or even creating operating losses, as declining margins in caustic soda may partially or totally offset or even exceed improving margins in chlorine. On the other hand, when chlorine demand declines so that available storage is filled, production operations must be curtailed, even if demand for caustic soda has increased. This imbalance may also have the effect of reducing our operating profits or even creating operating losses because the improving margins for caustic soda may be partially or totally offset or even exceeded by both declining margins in chlorine and the reduced production of both products. When substantial imbalances occur, we will often be forced to reduce prices or take actions that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents • New industry production capacity is added in large increments. In 2006, a competitor began production at a new chlor-alkali plant in the Northwestern U.S. with an estimated production capacity of approximately 80,000 ECUs. This may impact the market served by our Henderson plant and overall pricing. In addition, another competitor has announced a new chlor-alkali facility in Louisiana with an estimated ultimate production capacity of 450,000 ECUs. This new plant is expected to commence operations in two stages, with the first stage of 300,000 ECUs estimated to occur during late 2007 and the timing of the second stage has not yet been announced. While we anticipate that the chlorine produced by this new Louisiana facility will be used internally by the competitor to produce other products, the added production of caustic soda is expected to put downward pressure on caustic soda prices in the markets served by our St. Gabriel plant and elsewhere. These capacity additions will be offset by other plant reductions, as Dow shuts down its Fort Saskatchewan, Alberta plant (490,000 ECUs) in late 2006 and OxyChem has announced it will shut down its Muscle Shoals, Alabama plant (132,000 ECUs) in the first half of 2008. • Limited ability to control selling prices. Most of our customers consider price one of the most significant factors when choosing among the various suppliers of chlor-alkali products. We have limited ability to influence prices in this large commodity market. Decreases in the average selling prices of our products could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. While we strive to maintain or increase our profitability by reducing costs through improving production efficiency, emphasizing higher margin products, and controlling selling and administration expenses, these efforts are usually not sufficient to offset fully the effect of any decline in ECU prices on operating results. Our profitability could decrease because of reduced customer demand that is difficult to predict. Some of our contracts require us to supply a customer’s product requirements up to a designated maximum amount, but the customer has no obligation to buy the product. While this requires us to allocate a portion of our estimated production to meet those anticipated requirements, we bear the risk if the customer’s needs unexpectedly decrease. A customer’s demand for our products may decrease due to seasonal slowdowns in the customer’s business, or other events that reduce demand from an entire industry sector or from a particular customer. In particular, a customer’s plant may be shut down due to planned or unplanned maintenance needs or extreme weather conditions, such as during Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. When a particular customer’s demand unexpectedly decreases, we may not be able to find alternative purchasers for the product and may have to curtail production as a result. We find it difficult to predict reduced customer demand, although we attempt to minimize the difficulty by maintaining regular contact with customers and discussing their production plans with them. Our operating results or financial condition may be materially adversely affected by conditions affecting our customer base in the future. The expansion of our St. Gabriel facility subjects us to construction risks that could make the project more expensive or take longer to complete than anticipated. The announced expansion of our St. Gabriel facility will require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed our expectations, and involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties. The project is currently estimated to cost $142.0 million. Given the size and scope of this project, however, it is possible that the actual costs may be higher than anticipated. In particular, some of the events that could result in cost overruns include: • higher than anticipated construction and labor costs in southern Louisiana in the aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita; and • an increase in the costs of the equipment required for the project. Also, the announced expansion of our St. Gabriel facility is a large and complex project that may take longer to complete than anticipated. Some of the reasons for a delay in completion of the project include: • a shortage of skilled and other labor for construction projects in the wake of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita; • supply interruptions; 15 Table of Contents • difficulty or inability to find suitable replacement parts for equipment; • permitting and other regulatory issues, license revocation and changes in legal requirements; • labor disputes and work stoppages; • unforeseen engineering and environmental problems; and • weather interferences and extraordinary events including fires, explosions, hurricanes and acts of terrorism. We cannot predict the impact of these risks on our business operations. These risks, if they were to occur, could lead to additional costs, loss of additional anticipated cash flow from the plant expansion, and the failure to meet customer commitments for the additional production from the plant. We will need to incur additional debt to fund the St. Gabriel project and may not have the ability to generate the cash needed to service such increased debt. We will be required to increase the amount of our debt and use our existing cash balances to fund the payments needed for the St. Gabriel project, as well as to repay the $75.0 million of our Senior Notes that are due in December 2008. The future success of our operations will, in large part, dictate our ability to make scheduled payments on, and satisfy our obligations under, the debt we will incur to fund the St. Gabriel project. Our future operating performance will be affected by general economic, competitive, market, business and other conditions, many of which are beyond our control. In particular, market prices for our chlor-alkali products may decrease or our costs to produce and transport our products may increase, which would decrease our cash flow needed to service our increased debt. To the extent we are not able to meet our obligations under our outstanding debt, we will be required to restructure or refinance our debt, seek additional equity financing or sell assets. We may not be able to restructure or refinance our debt, obtain additional financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms or at all. Higher energy prices could increase our cost of producing chlor-alkali products. Energy costs are the largest component of the raw material costs to produce chlor-alkali products. As a result, increases in the cost of energy could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and may cause our production of chlor-alkali products to become less economical or even uneconomical. In particular, increases in natural gas prices directly increase our operating costs at our St. Gabriel and Henderson facilities, which rely on gas-powered energy producers. Natural gas-based power has generally been more costly than hydropower and has experienced greater price volatility than hydropower. In response to natural gas price increases during 2005, our electricity rates for these plants increased throughout most of 2005 to historically high levels, reaching a peak in October and November. During 2006, natural gas prices and the corresponding effect on our electricity rates have decreased from peak 2005 levels. With the continued volatility in the U.S. natural gas market, our future power costs are also expected to be volatile. When energy prices rise, we may not be able to increase the selling prices of our products at the same time, and under those circumstances our operating margins would decrease. In addition, to the extent our competitors are able to secure less expensive power than we are due to their geographic location or otherwise, we may be at a competitive disadvantage. We are unable to predict the future impact that energy prices may have on the results of our operations. See Item 1. “Business — Marketing, Production and Transportation” above. The shipment of chlorine by rail may be negatively impacted by new regulatory and rail industry requirements. We ship approximately 55% of our annual production of chlorine by rail, so that the ability to economically ship chlorine by rail is critical to our ability to supply chlorine to our customers. Chlorine is classified as a hazardous material that is toxic by inhalation (commonly referred to as a Toxic Inhalation Hazard or “TIH”), and constitutes approximately 35% of the total TIH materials that are transported each year by the US freight rail industry. The rail industry, through the Association of American Railroads (“AAR”), has expressed concern that the shipment of chlorine by rail poses a safety and liability concern because of past derailments of chlorine railcars that have caused injuries and deaths. Certain regulatory agencies, the AAR and some U.S. cities also have raised security concerns 16 Table of Contents that railcars carrying chlorine could be a target for terrorists. As a result of these safety, liability and security concerns, the cost and difficulty of shipping chlorine by rail may be negatively impacted by the following: • Proposed new tank car standards. The AAR’s tank car standard committee, the Tank Car Committee, and the Federal Railroad Administration (“FRA”), are both working to adopt new tank car performance standard for chlorine and other TIH railcars that have the goal of reducing the possibility of a chlorine or other TIH material release in the event of a railcar accident. When a new railcar design is established, which is expected by the end of 2007, we may be required to replace our existing fleet of chlorine railcars within an expected time frame possibly as short as ten years. We anticipate that any new chlorine railcar requirement will result in material cost increases that we are unable to quantify at this time. In addition, the uncertainty with the railcar design requirements has prompted some existing lessors of chlorine railcars to stop leasing or building chlorine railcars. Accordingly, in 2006, we were required to purchase 62 railcars that we formerly leased which has increased our costs. Further, some chlorine lessors have started to scrap chlorine cars instead of repairing them which has further tightened the current chlorine car market. • Increased rail transport prices. During the past few years, rail carriers have imposed substantially higher rates to transport chlorine and other TIH materials than most other chemicals due to safety and security concerns with chlorine products. As a result, as our rail contracts are coming up for renewal, we are experiencing cost increases for chlorine shipment that range from 15% to 30% on average per year. Our chlor-alkali plants are each served by only one rail carrier, so we do not have the ability to shift our business to alternate rail carriers to seek lower prices to ship our products. Rates for shipping caustic soda and our other products have also increased substantially and may continue to rise. • Proposed new federal regulations affecting TIH rail shipments. In December 2006, the Transportation Security Administration (“TSA”), which is part of the Department of Homeland Security, and the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration of the Department of Transportation, proposed new security regulations which are designed to reduce the risk, and increase the security, of transporting TIH materials by rail. These proposed regulations include the expedited movement and re-routing of railcars carrying TIH through high threat urban areas, the minimization of the time loaded TIH railcars are unattended, and the secure handoff of TIH railcars at carrier interchanges. The rail industry has already begun to implement some of the new security measures. These new regulations, once fully implemented, are expected to increase the difficulty of shipping chlorine by rail and to impose additional costs on both rail carriers and shippers to comply with the new requirements. We require rail transportation to efficiently and cost-effectively ship our chlorine and other products to our customers. Each of the matters discussed above could make it more difficult and/or substantially more expensive for us to ship chlorine by rail. Furthermore, our ability to increase prices when rail shipment costs increase may be limited both by existing contracts that require us to bear the risks of increased transportation costs and market conditions existing at that time. We face competition from other chemical companies, which could adversely affect our revenues and financial condition. The chlor-alkali industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We encounter competition in price, delivery, service, performance, and product recognition and quality, depending on the product involved. Many of our competitors are significantly larger and have greater financial resources than we do. Additionally, some of our competitors have chlor-alkali manufacturing facilities that are larger and more cost-effective than our facilities. Among our competitors are two of the world’s largest chemical companies, Dow and OxyChem. Because of their greater financial resources and manufacturing economies of scale, these and other larger companies in our industry may be better able to withstand severe price competition and volatile market conditions. See Item 1 “Business — Overview — Chlorine Products Market; Competition” above. 17 Table of Contents We are subject to possible risk of terrorist attacks or railcar accidents which could adversely affect our operations. Since September 11, 2001, there have been increasing concerns that chemical manufacturing facilities and railcars carrying chlorine and other TIH materials may be at an increased risk of future terrorist attacks. There have also been increasing concerns that a railcar accident could involve the release of chlorine that could cause injuries or deaths. Additionally, federal, state and local governments have begun a regulatory process that could lead to new regulations impacting the security of chemical industry facilities. Our business could be adversely impacted if a terrorist incident were to occur at any chemical facility or while a railcar or tank truck was transporting chlorine or any similar chemical. Our business also could be adversely impacted by a railcar accident that involved a chlorine release, especially if such accident occurred in a densely-populated area. In addition, our business could be affected by the cost of complying with new regulations. While we carry insurance for terrorist attacks and accidents, there can be no assurances that the coverage or amounts of such insurance would be sufficient to cover the losses that could result from any such incident that affected one of our facilities, railcars or tank trucks. Our facilities are subject to operating hazards and other disruptions that may disrupt our operations. We are dependent upon the continued safe operation of our production facilities. Our production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture, handling, storage and transportation of hazardous and TIH materials and products, including leaks and ruptures, chemical spills or releases, pollution, explosions, fires, inclement weather, natural disasters, unscheduled downtime and environmental hazards. From time to time in the past, incidents have occurred at our plants, including hazardous chlorine releases that have temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupted our manufacturing, causing production delays and resulting in liability for injuries. In addition, our production is subject to disruption by outside events that are beyond our control, such as rail transportation disruptions, unexpected reductions in customer orders, planned and unplanned maintenance outages, and acts of nature. We believe our operating and safety procedures are consistent in all material respects with those established by the chemical industry as well as those recommended or required by federal, state and local governmental authorities. However, we may experience these types of incidents in the future and these incidents could result in production delays or otherwise could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We maintain general liability insurance and property and business interruption insurance with coverage limits we believe are appropriate. However, because of the nature of industry hazards, liabilities for pollution and other damages arising from a major occurrence may exceed our insurance coverage or policy limits and adequate insurance may not be available at reasonable rates in the future. We have ongoing environmental costs and we may be exposed to environmental liabilities that are not currently reserved for in our financial statements. The nature of our operations and products, and the raw materials that we handle, expose us to a risk of environmental liabilities and claims. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs and capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the United States and Canada. The ultimate costs and timing of environmental liabilities are difficult to predict. Liability under environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. One liable party could be held responsible for all costs at a site, regardless of fault, percentage of contribution to the site or the legality of the original disposal. We could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, natural resources damages, civil or criminal fines and sanctions and third-party claims, as a result of past or future violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. In addition, future events, such as changes to or more rigorous enforcement of environmental laws, could require us to make additional expenditures, modify or curtail our operations or install pollution control equipment. See Item 1. “Business — Environmental Regulation” above and Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II of this report. In addition, see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” for a description of certain legal proceedings that have arisen from environmental matters. We are entitled to indemnification in various degrees by third parties for particular environmental costs and liabilities associated with real property that we have acquired. We could incur significant costs if an indemnifying 18 Table of Contents party is unable or unwilling to fulfill its obligation to indemnify us, if any of such agreements is terminated, or if the coverage limits under any of such agreements are inadequate. See Item 1. “Business — Environmental Regulation — Indemnities” above. We perform periodic assessments of our environmental obligations, with the most recent being at the end of 2006. The 2006 study, like the preceding assessments in 2005 and 2003, was performed by an independent consulting firm and was based on scenario analysis to estimate the cost to remedy environmental concerns at all of our plant sites. For each scenario, the study also used cost estimating techniques that included actual historical costs, estimates prepared for us by our engineers, outside consultants and other published cost data available for similar projects completed at the same or other sites. See Item 1 “Business — Environmental Regulation — Environmental Remediation Liabilities and Asset Retirement Obligations.” Based on the 2006 study, our total estimated environmental liabilities were $16.5 million at December 31, 2006. We base our environmental reserves on undiscounted costs. There can be no assurances that actual remedial costs or associated liabilities will not exceed accrued amounts. At some of our locations, regulatory agencies are considering whether additional actions are necessary to protect or remediate surface or groundwater resources. We could be required to incur additional costs to construct and operate remediation systems in the future. In addition, our environmental reserves do not include any amounts with respect to liabilities that may arise as a result of the environmental legal matters discussed below in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” We are subject to litigation and other claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses. We are a defendant in a number of pending legal proceedings relating to our present and former operations. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” for a description of certain legal proceedings pending against us, which include alleged exposure of plaintiffs to mercury vapor emissions and to asbestos. We believe we have valid defenses to these proceedings and are defending them vigorously. Because of the inherent uncertainties of litigation, however, we are unable to predict the outcome of these proceedings and therefore cannot determine whether the financial impact, if any, will be material to our financial position or results of operations. We are exposed to the financial and tax effects of U.S. to Canadian dollar currency translation, which are subject to economic forces beyond our control. A portion of our sales and expenditures are denominated in Canadian dollars, and accordingly, our results of operations and cash flows are affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar. Future changes in the relative value of the U.S. dollar against the Canadian dollar will impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our Senior Notes, while denominated in U.S. dollars, were issued by our Canadian subsidiary. As a result, the payment of the Senior Notes prior to or at maturity may create a tax liability due to changes in the exchange rate. For Canadian tax purposes, a foreign exchange gain or loss is determined based on the difference between the exchange rate prevailing when the debt repayment is made and the exchange rate of 1.59 when the Senior Notes were originally issued on December 31, 2001. Our redemption of $50.0 million of the Senior Notes on January 13, 2006, when the exchange rate was 1.16, resulted in a foreign exchange gain (treated as a capital gain for Canadian tax purposes) of approximately $18.7 million. In Canada, capital gains are taxable at half of the regular federal and provincial rates. While we had a capital loss carryforward for Canadian tax purposes sufficient to offset this gain in 2006, the tax consequences of the redemption resulted in the use of a substantial portion of our Canadian capital loss carryforward which is no longer available for use against future income. The redemption of the $25.0 million of Senior Notes on January 12, 2007, when the exchange rate was 1.18, resulted in foreign exchange gain of $8.9 million before utilization of the remainder of the Canadian capital loss carryforward. After applying the remainder of our capital loss carryforward, the taxable foreign exchange rate gain on this transaction will be approximately $3.6 million. The Senior Notes are due in December 2008 and we are planning to refinance the remaining $75.0 million principal balance of the Senior Notes in the first half of 2007. If we refinance the Senior Notes prior to their scheduled maturity date, this would accelerate the realization of any related tax liabilities due to exchange rate differences. If the exchange rate for Canadian dollars to U.S. dollars on the date of payment of any portion of the Senior Notes is less than the exchange rate when the Senior Notes were originally issued on December 31, 2001, we would have a Canadian tax liability based on such difference, which could be material. 19 Table of Contents Should the exchange rate upon redemptions of the remaining $75.0 million be similar to the rate at the time of the January 2007 redemption (1.18), we would have a foreign exchange gain of approximately $27.0 million, which would result in a tax liability of approximately $4.0 to $5.0 million. We face risks from continued declines in the pulp and paper industry. In 2006, approximately 14% of our sales were to customers in the pulp and paper industry, a decrease from approximately 18% in 2005 and 23% in 2004. The pulp and paper industry sector has experienced difficult economic conditions over the past few years that have led to numerous plant closings. Although the rate of decline appears to have lessened in 2006, any continued decline in this industry would be expected to reduce future demand for our products and could affect our ability to collect amounts due from customers in this industry sector, especially if a customer went bankrupt. Therefore, if the economic decline of this industry continues, it could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Labor disputes under our collective bargaining agreements may disrupt our business. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 44% of our employees are employed under the terms of collective bargaining agreements. One of our collective bargaining agreements will expire in 2007 (Dalhousie — 39 employees), one will expire in 2008 (Tacoma — 15 employees), two agreements will expire in 2010 (Henderson — 64 employees) and the remaining agreement will expire in 2012 (Becancour — 125 employees). In the future we could be involved in labor disputes in connection with the renegotiation of these agreements or otherwise that could lead to strikes or work stoppages, and the resulting production delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Item 1 Business — Employees. Our pension plans are currently underfunded, and may need to be funded in future years. We have defined benefit pension plans that may require additional funding of an uncertain amount in the future. If there are declines in the securities markets or declines in the discount rate used to estimate our pension liability, our underfunded pension liability will increase and we may have to fund additional amounts to our defined benefit pension plans in future years. We are dependent upon a limited number of key suppliers. The production of chlor-alkali products principally requires electricity, salt, steam and water as raw materials, and if the supply of such materials were limited or a significant supplier failed to meet its obligations under our current supply arrangements, we could be forced to incur increased costs which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our chlor-alkali plants are each served by only one rail carrier, so we do not have the ability to shift our business to alternate rail carriers to seek lower prices to ship our products. See the Risk Factor, “The shipment of chlorine by rail may be negatively impacted by new regulatory and rail industry requirements.” The concentrated ownership of our common stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company. As of March 1, 2007, based on information that we have obtained from filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Barclays Global Investors, NA. et.al, Gates Capital Management, Inc. et al., Hotchkis & Wiley Capital Management, LLC et al., Kingdon Capital Management, LLC et al. and Mellon Financial Corporation, owned approximately 11.59%, 6.1%, 7.0%, 5.09% and 5.33%, respectively, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, these beneficial owners, especially if they were to act together, could be in a position to significantly influence the outcome of matters requiring a stockholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our certificate of incorporation or bylaws and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. This concentrated ownership of our common stock may have the effect of bringing about, delaying or preventing a change of control of our company. 20 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There were no written comments received from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding the Company’s periodic or current reports under the Act which were received more than 180 days before the end of the fiscal year that ended December 31, 2006, and which remain unresolved. 