Item 1A. Risk Factors 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 27 Item 4A. Executive Officers of the Registrant 27 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 29 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 32 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 49 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 49 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 49 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 49 Item 9B. Other Information 52 PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 52 Item 11. Executive Compensation 52 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 52 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 52 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 52 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 53 First Supplemental Indenture Indemnity Agreement dated May 13, 2004 - Charles L. Mears Indemnity Agreement dated May 12, 2005 - Richard L. Urbanowski Indemnity Agreement dated January 24, 2006 - Robert E. Allen Notice Letter dated November 14, 2005 - Kent R. Stephenson First Amendment and Assignment of Agreement of Purchase and Sale and Joint Escrow Instructions Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Certification of Michael Y. McGovern required by Rule 13a-14a/15d-14a Certification of Gary L. Pittman required by Rule 13a-14a/15d-14a Certification of Michael Y. McGovern required by Rule 13a-14a/15d-14a Certification of Gary L. Pittman required by Rule 13a-14a/15d-14a Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accountants Certain statements in this Form 10-K regarding future expectations of Pioneer’s business and Pioneer’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity may be regarded as “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Forward-looking statements relate to matters that are not historical facts. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described in Item 1A of this Form 10-K. Actual outcomes may vary materially. Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Business and Products Pioneer Companies, Inc. and its subsidiaries have manufactured and marketed chlorine, caustic soda and related products in North America since 1988. We conduct our primary business through our operating subsidiaries: PCI Chemicals Canada Company (which we refer to as PCI Canada) and Pioneer Americas LLC (which we refer to as Pioneer Americas). Chlorine and caustic soda are commodity chemicals that are used as raw materials in a wide variety of applications and chemical processes. We believe they are the seventh and sixth most commonly produced chemicals, respectively, in the United States, based on volume. Caustic soda and chlorine are co-products which are produced simultaneously through the electrolysis of salt water in a fixed ratio of approximately 1.1 to 1. An Electrochemical Unit, which the industry refers to as an “ECU”, consists of 1.1 tons of caustic soda and 1 ton of chlorine. Chlorine is used in 60% of all commercial chemistry, 85% of all pharmaceutical chemistry and 95% of all crop protection chemistry. More than 15,000 products, including water treatment chemicals, plastics, detergents, pharmaceuticals, disinfectants and agricultural chemicals, are manufactured with chlorine as a raw material. Chlorine is also used directly in water disinfection applications. In the United States and Canada, chlorination is used to make public drinking water safe to drink, and a significant portion of industrial and municipal wastewater is treated with chlorine or chlorine derivatives to kill water-borne pathogens. Caustic soda is a versatile chemical alkali used in a diverse range of manufacturing processes, including pulp and paper production, metal smelting and oil production and refining. Caustic soda is combined with chlorine to produce bleach, which is used for water and waste disinfection. Caustic soda is also used in the manufacture of a wide variety of other end-use products, including detergents, rayon and cellophane. Plant Locations We believe that our chlor-alkali production capacity represents approximately 5% of the chlor-alkali industry’s production capacity in the United States and Canada. We currently operate the following production facilities that produce chlorine and caustic soda and related products. Production capacity is stated in tons. Production Location Manufactured Products Capacity Becancour, Quebec Chlorine 340,000 Caustic soda 383,000 Hydrochloric acid 250,000 Bleach 236,000 St. Gabriel, Louisiana Chlorine 197,000 Caustic soda 216,700 Henderson, Nevada Chlorine 152,000 Caustic soda 167,200 Hydrochloric acid 130,000 Bleach 180,000 Dalhousie, New Brunswick Chlorine 36,000 Caustic soda 40,000 Sodium chlorate 22,000 Tracy, California Bleach 233,000 Santa Fe Springs, California Bleach 233,000 Tacoma, Washington Bleach 90,000 1 Table of Contents Asset Sales and Redeployments Sale of Tacoma, Washington Facility. In March 2002, we idled the remaining production capacity at our chlor-alkali manufacturing facility in Tacoma. On December 29, 2005, we completed the sale of this site to Mariana Properties, Inc. (“Mariana”), a subsidiary of Occidental Chemical Corporation (“OxyChem”). We also own and operate a bleach production and chlorine repackaging facility in Tacoma, which was not affected by this recent transaction. We had originally purchased the Tacoma facility from a subsidiary of OxyChem in 1997. Under the 1997 purchase agreement, the OxyChem subsidiary was responsible for ongoing environmental remediation activities at the site and the adjacent Hylebos Waterway until June 17, 2027 when Pioneer Americas would assume responsibility for certain environmental remediation obligations to the extent they were still outstanding at that time. We had earlier recorded a reserve of approximately $4.5 million for this potential remediation obligation. As a result of the sale, we received $750,000 of cash proceeds and Mariana agreed to assume all environmental obligations with respect to the site, including our environmental remediation obligations after June 17, 2027, if any, that arise from the historical use of the site. OxyChem has also guaranteed Mariana’s obligations in connection with the sale. This sale provides OxyChem with control over the site, which should allow it to better manage the environmental remediation. As a result of this transaction, we reduced our environmental reserve by $4.5 million due to the assumption by Mariana of our prior obligation to assume any residual remediation activities not completed by June 17, 2027. We recognized a $4.1 million gain as a result of this sale, which is included in Other Items in the consolidated statement of operations. Termination of Operations at Cornwall; Sale of Paraffin Operations. In April 2005, we completed the relocation of the bleach production assets from our Cornwall plant to our Becancour facility. During the second quarter of 2005, we decided to terminate the remaining operations at our Cornwall plant, and we sold the chlorinated paraffin operations at the plant for cash consideration of $1.0 million. Pursuant to the purchase agreement, we may also receive up to $220,000 in each quarter through June 30, 2009, for a maximum of $3.5 million, upon the satisfaction of certain purchase price contingencies tied to the future supply of chlorine to the buyer under a separate supply agreement. We recognized a $1.8 million loss as a result of this sale, which is also included in Other Items in the consolidated statements of operations. During the third and fourth quarters of 2005, the applicable purchase price contingencies were satisfied, and we recognized a gain of $440,000, which is also included in Other Items in the consolidated statements of operations. The remaining operations at our Cornwall plant, which were related to the production of anthraquinone, were terminated during the third quarter of 2005. At the end of the current lease term which expires in 2007 and for which the remaining rent is a nominal amount, we will return the plant facility to the lessor. The plant is fully depreciated. Pending Sale of Acreage in Henderson, Nevada. In June 2005, we announced that Pioneer Americas had entered into an agreement to sell approximately 60 acres of vacant land located adjacent to our chlor-alkali manufacturing facility in Henderson. While the sale was originally expected to close in 2005, difficulties in obtaining local governmental approvals and other closing conditions have delayed the closing to what is now anticipated to be in the second half of 2006. The agreement was extended through March 31, 2006 and we are currently discussing the possibilities of a further extension with the buyer. We anticipate that we will realize approximately $22.8 million in net proceeds from the transaction with this land, which has a nominal book value. We anticipate that the net proceeds from this transaction, if it is completed, will be used to redeem a portion of our outstanding 10% Senior Secured Notes due 2008 (“Senior Notes”). Chlorine Products Market; Competition Chlor-alkali manufacturers in the United States and Canada account for approximately 24% of world chlor-alkali annual production capacity, with approximately 14.8 million tons of chlorine and 16.3 million tons of caustic soda production capacity. According to data from Chemical Market Associates, Inc. (“CMAI”), a 2 Table of Contents global petrochemical, plastics, fibers and chlor-alkali consulting firm, the Dow Chemical Company (“Dow”) and OxyChem are the two largest chlor-alkali producers in North America, together representing approximately 55% of U.S. and Canadian capacity. Sixteen companies share the remaining capacity, and approximately 75% of the total capacity is located on the Gulf Coast. The chlor-alkali industry in the United States and Canada is highly competitive, and many of our competitors, including Dow and OxyChem, are substantially larger and have greater financial resources than we do. While widely available technology is used in chlor-alkali production, there are large capital requirements, regulatory requirements and difficult permitting requirements for the production of chlor-alkali and chlor-alkali related products. Competitive Advantages and Disadvantages. Our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure, to provide reliable and responsive service to our customers and to operate in a safe and environmentally responsible manner. Our goal is to build long-term relationships with our customers by meeting their product quality, delivery schedule and sales support needs. We believe that there are some characteristics of our production capabilities that distinguish us from our competitors, including the following: • our Becancour facility is a lower-cost production facility as a result of the availability of lower-priced hydropower; • our St. Gabriel facility has three pipelines that allow us to efficiently transport and supply chlorine to customers in the area; and • our Henderson facility is the only currently operating chlor-alkali production facility in the southwestern region of the United States, providing us with a strong regional presence and transportation cost advantages. However, a competitor is expected to start production at a new plant in the Northwestern U.S. in early 2006 with a production capacity reported to be approximately 80,000 ECUs. In 2005, approximately 174,000 tons (25%) of the chlorine and 75,000 tons (9%) of the caustic soda that we produced at our chlor-alkali plants were used for our internal production of other products, primarily bleach and hydrochloric acid. We sell our remaining production in the merchant market. In contrast, many chlor-alkali companies use a large proportion of the chlorine that they produce for the internal production of other chemical products. At times those companies treat the caustic soda that they produce as a secondary product that they are willing to dispose of at a discount, which affects the prices we are able to realize for sales of caustic soda. Some of the competitive disadvantages that we face include: • relatively high power costs at our Henderson and St. Gabriel facilities, which costs are largely dependent on the price of natural gas which can be volatile; • our inability to serve some customers in Canada and the United States without incurring significant transportation costs; • our need to acquire salt from third-party producers, with attendant availability, cost and transportation issues; • our inability to spread our fixed costs over a large manufacturing base, like some of our much larger competitors; and • our St. Gabriel and Dalhousie facilities use the mercury cell production process, rather than the more efficient membrane cell technology used by many of our competitors which requires less power. See “Marketing, Pricing, Production and Transportation — Marketing” below. Marketing, Pricing, Production and Transportation Marketing Chlorine and caustic soda are commodity chemicals that we typically sell under contracts to customers in the United States and Canada, although we occasionally export a relatively small amount of caustic soda on a 3 Table of Contents spot basis. Because chlorine and caustic soda are commodity chemicals, our sales contracts often contain pricing that is determined on a quarterly basis by mutual agreement. Contracts that we entered into during prior periods sometimes contained “meet or release” clauses that allow the customer to terminate the contract if we do not meet a better price offered the customer by a competitor. Our contracts may also allow either party to terminate the agreement if mutual agreement as to the applicable price for future product purchases is not reached. Both the chlorine and caustic soda markets have been, and are likely to continue to be, cyclical. Furthermore, these markets are often counter-cyclical, whereby one market is relatively strong and the other market is relatively weak. Periods of high demand, high capacity utilization and increasing operating margins tend to result in new plant investments in the industry and increased production until supply exceeds demand, followed by a period of declining prices and declining capacity utilization until the cycle is repeated. See Item 1A. “Risk Factors — The chlor-alkali industry is cyclical and subject to periodic downturns. . .” below. Approximately 31% of our 2005 revenues came from product sales for use in water treatment, approximately 18% came from product sales for use in the pulp and paper industry and approximately 10% came from product sales for use by urethane producers. We rely heavily on repeat customers, and our management and sales personnel are responsible for developing and maintaining successful long-term relationships with our customers. We also sell certain products to distributors, although we have reduced our reliance on the use of distributors over the course of the last several years. No customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues in any of our last three fiscal years. The vinyl and aluminum industries use significant amounts of chlorine and caustic soda production. While we do not sell large amounts of our products to customers in either industry, conditions in those industries have a material effect on the overall market supply of chlorine and caustic soda and hence the prices paid by our customers. We primarily use our own sales force to serve our markets, although we also sell some of our products to distributors. We use one of our downstream bleach production facilities and three leased terminal facilities to store and distribute caustic soda. We use an additional ten transfer facilities owned by third parties where rail shipments of caustic soda and hydrochloric acid are transloaded to trucks for local distribution. Pricing In accordance with industry practice, we compare ECU prices on a netback basis, reporting and analyzing prices net of the cost of transporting the products to customers to allow for a comparable means of price comparisons between periods and with respect to our competitors. Our average ECU netback was $581 in 2005, compared to $393 in 2004 and $382 in 2003. For purposes of determining our ECU netback, we use prices that we realize as a result of sales of chlorine and caustic soda to our customers, and we do not include the value of chlorine and caustic soda that is incorporated in other products that we manufacture and sell. Quarterly average ECU netbacks for 2005, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: 2005 2004 2003 First Quarter $ 548 $ 339 $ 362 Second Quarter 577 354 406 Third Quarter 581 409 392 Fourth Quarter 619 480 366 We announced price increases for chlorine and caustic soda in 2004 and 2005 that are set forth in the following table (stated on a per-ton basis). Increasing demand for chlorine since the beginning of 2004 and increasing demand for caustic soda beginning in the second quarter of 2004 led us to announce a series of price 4 Table of Contents increases for those products. The most recent increases in the third and fourth quarters of 2005 were brought about by the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Chlorine Caustic Soda 2004: First Quarter $ 75 $ — Second Quarter 20 95 Third Quarter 20 110 Fourth Quarter 20 50 2005: First Quarter $ 20 $ 40 Second Quarter — 30 Third Quarter 25 125 Fourth Quarter — 60 (1) 2006: First Quarter (through March 1) 25 — (1) In late October 2005, we announced an additional caustic soda price increase of $160 per ton, although this increase was subject to a temporary voluntary allowance of $100 per ton. We reserved the right to remove all or any portion of the temporary voluntary allowance at any time following the effective date of the price increase, upon notice to our customers. All of the price increases that we announce are implemented when announced or as soon as permitted by applicable contract terms. We generally do not announce product price decreases, which are implemented in accordance with applicable contract terms as a result of negotiations with individual customers or through the application of an externally-determined pricing formula. Our annual production capacity is approximately 725,000 ECUs, or 1,500,000 tons of chlorine and caustic soda. Most of the chlorine and caustic soda that we sell to customers is sold under contracts with varying terms and conditions. As of January 1, 2006, we had contracts that cover the anticipated sale of an annual total of approximately 470,000 tons of chlorine and caustic soda (including equivalent amounts that will be sold as bleach or hydrochloric acid), and that are subject to contractual provisions that could restrict or eliminate our ability to increase the netback we will receive for the amount of product that is sold under those contracts. Of the contracts that are subject to such restrictions, contracts with respect to approximately 380,000 tons will expire over the course of the next three years, and the remainder will expire over the following five years. The prices that we realize for contract sales of chlorine and caustic soda during any quarter, and thus our average ECU netback for the quarter, are different from the chlorine and caustic soda contract prices that are reported by CMAI. CMAI’s reported monthly contract prices are based on the assumption that price changes are implemented on the first day of the calendar quarter that follows announced price changes, while we have a mix of pricing provisions that in some cases limits or delays the implementation of price changes. CMAI’s reported monthly contract prices also relate to products that are produced and delivered in the U.S. Gulf Coast. While the majority of the demand for North American chlor-alkali production does occur in the U.S. Gulf Coast region, only one of our plants is located in that region, and regional supply and demand factors and logistical considerations generally result in varying regional prices for our products. During the fourth quarter of 2005, our average ECU netback was $619, while the average ECU netback quoted by CMAI for the same quarter was $861. In general, changes in our average ECU netback and the related effect on our revenues and cash flow have lagged changes in our announced prices and changes in the contract prices that are reported by CMAI, although the corresponding benefit to us in a period of declining 5 Table of Contents prices is of a somewhat lesser magnitude. The following table illustrates the recent relationship between our average ECU netback and the monthly contract price reported by CMAI: Our average ECU netback for the first two months of 2006 was approximately $620. Based on current CMAI forecasts, we anticipate that our average ECU netback may decrease from this level during 2006. Production Our annual production capacity of 725,000 ECUs is determined on the basis of the amount of chlorine and caustic soda our plants can produce under normal operating conditions on an annual basis, after taking into consideration plant shut downs that are scheduled for major maintenance activities. ECU production volumes at our chlor-alkali facilities and at all chlor-alkali industry production facilities in the U.S. and Canada for 2005, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: % of Production ECUs (in tons) Capacity 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 Pioneer production volume 671,000 704,000 671,000 93% 97% 93% Industry production volume(1) 13,264,000 14,385,000 13,890,000 90% 97% 84% (1) Sources: Chlorine Institute, CMAI and internal estimates. We also purchased 56,000 tons, 130,000 tons and 140,000 tons of caustic soda for resale in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. On average, our margins on purchases for resale are lower than the margins we realize from the sales of caustic soda that is produced in our own plants. Some of the purchases for resale are made under a contract with one supplier, while others are made on a spot basis. In 2004 we met contractual commitments for caustic soda previously produced at our Tacoma chlor-alkali production facility through purchases for resale. Those commitments have now terminated, which led to the reduced need for purchases for resale in 2005. While we anticipate some continuing need for purchases for resale to address seasonal variations in demand for caustic soda or to take advantage of new sales opportunities, we expect future purchases for resale to remain at lower levels than those of 2003 and 2004. Production rates for chlorine and caustic soda are generally based upon demand for chlorine, because storage capacity for chlorine is both limited and expensive. When demand for chlorine is high and operational capacity is expanded accordingly, an increase in the supply of both chlorine and caustic soda occurs since chlorine and caustic soda are produced in a fixed ratio. As a result, the price of caustic soda is often depressed, as there is insufficient demand for the increased supply. This imbalance may have the effect of reducing our operating profits, or even creating operating losses, because declining margins in caustic soda may partially or totally offset or even exceed improving margins in chlorine. On the other hand, when demand for chlorine declines to a level below plant operational capacity and available storage is filled, production must be curtailed, even if demand for caustic soda has increased. This imbalance may also have the effect of reducing 6 Table of Contents our operating profits, or even creating operating losses, because improving margins for caustic soda may be partially or totally offset or even exceeded by both declining margins in chlorine and the reduced production of both products. Our railcars can, under certain circumstances, be used to provide additional storage capacity, but only to a limited extent. Production Disruptions in 2005 From time to time, we experience disruptions in our operations, which are generally caused by the following: • Rail Transportation Disruptions. Disruptions in rail transportation can reduce our ability to obtain adequate amounts of salt and also interrupt our ability to transport our products to our customers. In January 2005, we reduced production at our Henderson plant due to flooding in California and Utah that disrupted rail transportation of salt to the plant and shipments from the plant to our customers and our bleach plants in California. In the third quarter of 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita caused a shortage of available railcars and other transportation disruptions that caused our Becancour chlor-alkali plant to operate at a reduced capacity for a portion of the third quarter. • Unexpected Reductions in Customer Orders. Reductions in orders from our customers caused by seasonal fluctuations in usage or other factors, such as production disruptions at their facilities, can cause us to reduce plant production if we are not able to find alternate customers to purchase the excess product on short notice. These types of reductions affected our Becancour plant in January 2005 and our St. Gabriel plant in June 2005. • Planned and Unplanned Maintenance Outages. We regularly schedule maintenance outages at our plants to perform needed maintenance on the equipment. In addition, we may experience equipment failures or other problems that require a plant to be shut down to fix the problem. We had planned maintenance outages at our St. Gabriel plant in March 2005, and at our Becancour, Dalhousie and Henderson plants in the fourth quarter of 2005. We also encountered temporary production difficulties at our Becancour plant as well as a plant shutdown at our St. Gabriel plant in late September caused by an electrical problem that was resolved during the first week of October. • Acts of Nature. In August and September 2005, our St. Gabriel plant was shut down as a precaution when Hurricanes Katrina and Rita approached the Gulf Coast. The plant sustained minor storm damage from Hurricane Katrina which caused the plant to be shut down for six days. Our 2005 production of 671,000 ECUs was 93% of our production capacity of 725,000 ECUs. Environmental Health and Safety Practices The chlor-alkali products that we make can be dangerous to humans and the environment if not handled safely. Accordingly, we try to manage our production facilities in a way that we believe will protect the environment and the health and safety of our employees, customers and surrounding communities. For this purpose, our management and employees strive to improve our health, safety and environmental performance, and work to prevent workplace injuries and environmental accidents. Toward that goal, our management and employees have a strong commitment to the following objectives as part of our environmental, health and safety policies: • complying with legal requirements related to safety, health and environmental quality; • regularly inspecting and maintaining our facilities in a safe operating condition; • providing workplace policies, procedures and training so that employees can perform their jobs in a safe, healthy and environmentally responsible manner; and • providing management leadership and requiring our employees to share accountability for ongoing improvement in health, safety and environmental performance. 7 Table of Contents Energy Costs and Other Raw Materials Electricity, salt, and water are the major raw materials for our chlor-alkali products, with electricity being the most costly component. The electricity costs associated with our production of chlor-alkali products can materially affect our results of operations, as each one dollar change in our cost for a megawatt hour of electricity generally results in a corresponding change of approximately $2.75 in our cost to produce an ECU. The amounts that we spent on electricity for the production of chlor-alkali products and for other power requirements during each quarter in 2004 and 2005, and the corresponding percentages of our cost of sales that those amounts represented, were as follows: Total Power Percentage of Costs Cost of Sales (In thousands) 2004 First Quarter $ 19,989 23% Second Quarter 21,273 25% Third Quarter 23,051 26% Fourth Quarter 22,201 24% 2005 First Quarter 20,334 23% Second Quarter 23,594 25% Third Quarter 25,109 26% Fourth Quarter 31,251 31% Our plants at St. Gabriel and Henderson rely on power sources that primarily use natural gas for the generation of electricity. In response to natural gas price increases, our electricity rates increased throughout most of 2005 to historically high levels, reaching a peak in October and November. While natural gas prices have decreased somewhat in early 2006 from 2005 levels, prices remain high relative to years prior to 2005. The salt that we use for the production of chlorine and caustic soda is purchased from suppliers and transported to our manufacturing facilities in railcars, trucks, ships or barges. Transportation Costs The destructive effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita disrupted the rail and barge transportation services that we rely upon to provide raw materials to our St. Gabriel and Becancour plants and to deliver our products to many of our customers. In addition, our rail carriers have indicated that they are reevaluating the transportation services that they provide to us, including the terms upon which those services are provided, contract durations and the prices charged for the services. A railroad’s ability to force us to accept changes in the terms upon which services are provided to us, and to do so in a short period of time, means that rail transportation could be reduced or even eliminated, or that we could be required to incur substantial increases in the cost of service. There could be further and more severe disruptions to rail service, which might affect our ability to meet our contractual obligations. Applicable contractual limitations may also prevent us from increasing our prices during periods of cost increases. Our rail transportation agreement with the Union Pacific Railroad has been extended beyond its expiration date of October 31, 2005, while we negotiate the terms of a new contract. We have agreed to substantially higher rates that became effective as of November 13, 2005, and are in the process of finalizing the new contract that will expire in October 2006. Among other things, we will now bear the risk of fuel surcharges. We may not be able to increase our prices to cover these increased costs. The Union Pacific Railroad provides rail services to our Henderson facility, where rail service problems have from time to time made it difficult to ship our chlor-alkali products to our customers on a timely basis, or to our bleach plants in Santa Fe Springs, Tracy and Tacoma for our bleach customers. Due to the increase in transit times between our salt suppliers’ locations and our chlor-alkali facility in Henderson, we have leased 8 Table of Contents additional railcars to handle salt deliveries, supplemented railcar shipments with supplies delivered by trucks, and increased our salt storage capacity at the Henderson facility. As a result, during 2005, we incurred additional transportation costs of $1.2 million along with increased capital expenditures of $0.5 million for building additional storage capacity at our Henderson facility. Most of the chlorine that we produce is transported to our customers in railcars and for customers near our plant in St. Gabriel by pipelines. We ship caustic soda by railcars, trucks, ships or barges, and we ship our other products by railcars or trucks. We lease a fleet of railcars, which numbered 1,958 as of December 31, 2005, and use third-party transportation operators for truck and water-borne distribution. We are increasing our ability to maintain inventory at leased terminal space, and we now store inventory at three terminal locations for truck-load shipments to customers. Another ten locations are used for the direct transfer of product from railcars to trucks for distribution. Technology We use three different technologies in the production of chlor-alkali products through the electrolysis of brine: diaphragm cell technology, mercury cell technology and membrane cell technology. • Diaphragm cell technology, which is used for approximately 60% of our production capacity, employs a coated titanium anode, a steel cathode and an asbestos or asbestos/ polymer separator. While diaphragm cell technology consumes less power than mercury cell technology, it produces caustic soda with a relatively higher salt content than other technologies and requires evaporation with steam to reach a commercial concentration. • Mercury cell technology, which is used in approximately 31% of our production capacity, employs a coated titanium anode and flowing mercury as a cathode. Mercury cell technology produces high purity caustic soda and does not require evaporation, but it consumes relatively more power, and the mercury requires heightened handling and control practices. • Membrane cell technology, which is used in approximately 9% of our production capacity and is generally the most efficient technology, employs a coated titanium anode, a nickel cathode and a fluorocarbon membrane separator. Compared to diaphragm cell technology, membrane cell technology produces higher-purity caustic soda and it requires lower power consumption and lower steam consumption. We believe that all of the new chlor-alkali plants that have been built in recent years use the membrane cell technology. See Item 2 “Properties — Facilities” below for information regarding the use of these technologies by our chlor-alkali production facilities. Environmental Regulation U.S. Requirements General. Various federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, affect our operations and costs. In particular, our activities in connection with the production of chlor-alkali and chlor-alkali related products are subject to stringent environmental regulation. As with the industry generally, compliance with existing and anticipated regulations affects our overall cost of business. Areas affected include capital costs to construct, maintain and upgrade equipment and facilities. Anticipated and existing regulations affect our capital expenditures and earnings, and they may affect our competitive position to the extent that regulatory requirements with respect to a particular production technology may give rise to costs that our competitors might not bear. Environmental regulations have historically been subject to frequent change by regulatory authorities, and we are unable to predict the ongoing cost to us of complying with these laws and regulations or the future impact of such regulations on our operations. Violation of federal or state environmental laws, regulations and permits can result in the imposition of significant civil and criminal penalties, injunctions and construction bans or delays. A discharge of chlorine or other hazardous substances into the environment could, to the extent such event is not insured, subject us to substantial expense, including both the cost to comply 9 Table of Contents with applicable regulations and claims by neighboring landowners and other third parties for any personal injury and property damage that might be alleged. Air Emissions. Our U.S. operations are subject to the Federal Clean Air Act and comparable state and local statutes. We believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with these statutes in all states in which we operate. Amendments to the Federal Clean Air Act enacted in late 1990 require or will require most industrial operations in the U.S. to incur capital expenditures in order to meet air emission control standards developed by the Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) and state environmental agencies. Among the requirements that are applicable to us are those that require the EPA to establish hazardous air pollutant emissions limitations and control technology requirements for chlorine production facilities. In December 2003 the EPA issued maximum achievable control technology (“MACT”) standards that relate to limitations on hazardous air pollutant emissions from mercury-cell chlor-alkali facilities, which will apply to our St. Gabriel facility. The new regulations provided a three-year period, ending in December 2006, during which we must implement new MACT measures at the St. Gabriel facility, including installing additional emission monitoring systems, adopting more stringent work practices and conducting more frequent operating and maintenance checks and repairs. We anticipate that the total project cost associated with complying with the new regulations will be approximately $2.6 million. Of that amount, we have spent approximately $2.2 million over the last five years in anticipation of the new requirements. Environmental groups filed a court challenge to certain of the new regulations, contending that the EPA should reconsider the rules and adopt new standards that bar the use of mercury for chlorine production. While the court proceedings have been held in abeyance while the EPA reconsiders the challenged rules, we are continuing our preparations for compliance with all of the new MACT standards. As a result of voluntary air emissions monitoring that we conducted during October 2004, we discovered that the carbon-based system that we use to remove mercury from the hydrogen gas stream at our St. Gabriel facility was not completely effective, resulting in mercury vapor emissions that were above the permit limits approved by the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality (“LDEQ”). We immediately reduced the plant’s operating rate in order to ensure that emissions were below the permitted levels, and determined the materials and process changes that would be necessary to address the problem. The installation of the necessary equipment was completed in late November, and the plant then returned to its full operating rate. Since that time emissions monitoring has confirmed that air emissions are below the permit limits. See our discussion of two legal matters that resulted from this matter in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” below. Our plants manufacture or use chlorine, which is in gaseous form if released into the air. Chlorine gas in relatively low concentrations can irritate the eyes, nose and skin and in large quantities or high concentrations can cause permanent injury or death. Over the last five years there have been minor releases at our plants, none of which has had any known impact on human health or the environment or resulted in any material claims against us. We maintain systems to detect emissions of chlorine at our plants, and the St. Gabriel, Henderson and Becancour facilities are members of their local industrial emergency response networks. We believe that our insurance coverage is adequate with respect to costs that might be incurred in connection with any future release, although there can be no assurance that we will not incur substantial expenditures that are not covered by insurance if a major release occurs in the future. Water. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972 (“FWPCA”) imposes restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of pollutants into navigable waters. Permits must be obtained to discharge pollutants into state and federal waters. The FWPCA imposes substantial potential liability for the costs of removal, remediation and damages. We maintain wastewater discharge permits for many of our facilities, where required pursuant to the FWPCA and comparable state laws. We have also applied for all necessary permits to discharge storm water under such laws. We believe that compliance with existing permits and foreseeable new permit requirements will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Some states maintain groundwater and surface water protection programs that require permits for discharges or operations that may impact groundwater or surface water conditions. The requirements of these laws vary and are generally implemented through a state regulatory agency. These water protection programs typically require site discharge permits, spill notification and prevention and corrective action plans. Solid Waste. We generate non-hazardous solid wastes that are subject to the requirements of the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) and comparable state statutes. We believe that we are in compliance with the stricter disposal standards for non-hazardous wastes that have been adopted by the EPA. RCRA also governs the disposal of hazardous wastes. We are not currently required to comply with a substantial portion of RCRA’s hazardous waste requirements because many of our operations do not generate quantities of hazardous wastes that exceed the threshold levels established under RCRA. However, it is possible that additional wastes, which could include wastes currently generated during operations, will in the future be designated by the regulations or other laws as “hazardous wastes.” Hazardous wastes are subject to more rigorous and costly disposal requirements than are non-hazardous wastes. Such changes in the regulations or laws could result in additional capital expenditures and operating expenses which could be material in amount. The EPA has adopted regulations banning the land disposal of certain hazardous wastes unless the wastes meet defined treatment or disposal standards. Our disposal costs could increase substantially if our present disposal sites become unavailable due to capacity or regulatory restrictions. We presently believe, however, that our current disposal arrangements will allow us to continue to dispose of such wastes with no material adverse effect on us. Hazardous Substances. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), also known as “Superfund,” imposes liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original act, on specified classes of persons that contributed to the release of a “hazardous substance” into the environment. These persons include the owner or operator of the site and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances found at the site. CERCLA also authorizes the EPA and, in some instances, third parties to act in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur. In the course of our ordinary operations, we generate waste that falls within CERCLA’s definition of a “hazardous substance.” We may be jointly and severally liable under CERCLA for all or part of the costs required to clean up sites at which such hazardous substances have been disposed of or released into the environment. We currently own or lease, and have in the past owned or leased, properties at which hazardous substances have been or are being handled. Although we have used operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or leased by us or on or under other locations where these wastes have been taken for disposal. In addition, many of these properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment and disposal or release of hydrocarbons or other wastes were not under our control. These properties and the wastes disposed thereon may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under such laws we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes (including wastes disposed of or released by prior owners or operators), to clean up contaminated property (including contaminated groundwater) or to perform remedial plugging operations to prevent future contamination. However, no investigations or remedial activities are currently being conducted under CERCLA by third parties with respect to any of our current or former plant sites, with the exception of the chlor-alkali facility that we previously owned in Tacoma and sold in December 2005, where the activities are covered by an indemnity from the current owner. See “Indemnities — OxyChem Indemnity for Tacoma Site” below. Investigations and remedial activities are being carried out at certain facilities under the other statutory authorities discussed above. See also our discussion of the Albany, N.Y. Mercury Refining Superfund Site in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” below. Environmental Remediation. Contamination resulting from spills of hazardous substances is not unusual within the chemical manufacturing industry. Although our current operating practices are designed with an intent to prevent such occurrences, such occurrences can occur from time to time. Historic spills and past operating practices have resulted in soil and groundwater contamination at several of our facilities and at 11 Table of Contents certain sites where operations have been discontinued. We are currently addressing soil and/or groundwater contamination at several sites through assessment, monitoring and remediation programs with oversight by government agencies. In some cases we are conducting this work under administrative orders. Environmental Assessment and Reserve. During 2005 we commissioned the most recent of our periodic assessments of our environmental obligations. The 2005 study, like the preceding assessment in 2003, was performed by an independent consulting firm and was based on scenario analysis to estimate the cost to remedy environmental concerns at all of our plant sites. For each scenario, the study also used cost estimating techniques that included actual historical costs, estimates prepared for us by our engineers and outside consultants, and other published cost data available for similar projects completed at the same or other sites. The 2005 study included consideration of various factors, including, but not limited to, existing knowledge of site conditions, current regulations and their application by regulatory agencies, the use of various alternative remediation technologies, post-acquisition contamination not covered under existing environmental indemnity agreements and the inherent risk of disputes under some of the indemnity agreements due to passage of time. Based on the 2005 study, we estimated our total environmental remediation liabilities to be $19.8 million as of March 31, 2005, of which $3.2 million is subject to indemnity claims against a previous owner, as discussed below. As of December 31, 2005, our total estimated environmental liabilities were $14.5 million, based on the results of the study, $0.8 million of costs that we have incurred since the study’s completion, and the $4.5 million liability reduction resulting from the indemnity that we received in connection with the sale of our former chlor-alkali facility in Tacoma. See “Indemnities — OxyChem Indemnity for Tacoma Site” below. We base our environmental reserves on undiscounted costs. There can be no guarantee that actual remedial costs or associated liabilities will not exceed accrued amounts. At some of our locations, regulatory agencies are considering whether additional actions are necessary to protect or remediate surface or groundwater resources. We could be required to incur additional costs to construct and operate remediation systems in the future. Our environmental reserves do not include any amounts with respect to liabilities that may arise as a result of the environmental legal matters discussed below in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” OSHA. We are also subject to the requirements of the Federal Occupational Safety and Health Act (“OSHA”) and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standard requires that certain information be maintained about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and citizens. We believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with OSHA requirements, including general industry standards, record-keeping requirements and monitoring of occupational exposure to regulated substances. Canadian Requirements General. Our Canadian facilities are governed by federal environmental laws administered by Environment Canada and by provincial environmental laws enforced by administrative agencies. Many of these laws are comparable to the U.S. laws described above. In particular, the Canadian environmental laws generally provide for control or prohibition of pollution, for the issuance of certificates of authority or certificates of authorization, which permit the operation of regulated facilities and prescribe limits on the discharge of pollutants, and for penalties for the failure to comply with applicable laws. These laws include the substantive areas of air pollution, water pollution, solid and hazardous waste generation and disposal, toxic substances, petroleum storage tanks, protection of surface and subsurface waters, and protection of other natural resources. However, there is no Canadian law similar to CERCLA that would make a company liable for legal off-site disposal. The Canadian Environmental Protection Act (the “CEPA”) is the primary federal statute that governs environmental matters throughout the provinces. The federal Fisheries Act is the principal federal water pollution control statute. This law would apply in the event of a spill of caustic soda or another deleterious substance that adversely impacts marine life in a waterway. The Becancour, Dalhousie and Corwnwall facilities are adjacent to major waterways and are therefore subject to the requirements of this statute. The 12 Table of Contents Chlor-Alkali Mercury Release Regulations and the Chlor-Alkali Mercury Liquid Effluent Regulations, adopted under the CEPA, regulate the operation of the Dalhousie facility. In particular, these regulations provide for the quantity of mercury a chlor-alkali plant may release into the ambient air and the quantity of mercury that may be released with liquid effluent. We believe we have operated and are currently operating in compliance with these statutes. Canadian regulatory authorities have identified mercury contamination in the waterway adjacent to the Dalhousie facility, but we believe that if we were to have any liability for the contamination, it would be subject to one of the indemnities discussed below. The primary provincial environmental laws include the Environmental Protection Act in the province of Ontario, the Quebec Environment Quality Act in Quebec and the Clean Environment Act in New Brunswick. In general, each of these acts regulates the discharge of a contaminant into the natural environment if such discharge causes or is likely to cause an adverse effect. Indemnities ZENECA Indemnity. Our Henderson facility is located within what is known as the “Black Mountain Industrial Park.” Soil and groundwater contamination have been identified on or under land within and adjoining the Black Mountain Industrial Park, including land owned by us. A groundwater treatment system has been installed at the facility and, pursuant to a consent agreement with the Nevada Division of Environmental Protection, studies are being conducted to further evaluate soil and groundwater contamination at the facility and other properties within the Black Mountain Industrial Park and to determine whether additional remediation will be necessary with respect to our property. In connection with our 1988 acquisition of the St. Gabriel and Henderson facilities, the sellers agreed to indemnify us with respect to, among other things, certain environmental liabilities associated with historical operations at the Henderson site. ZENECA Delaware Holdings, Inc. and ZENECA, Inc. (collectively, the “ZENECA Companies”) have assumed the indemnity obligations that benefit us. In general, we are indemnified against environmental costs that arise from or relate to pre-closing actions that involved disposal, discharge or release of materials resulting from the former agricultural chemical and other non-chlor-alkali manufacturing operations at the Henderson facility. The ZENECA Companies are also responsible for costs arising out of the pre-closing actions at the Black Mountain Industrial Park. Under the ZENECA Indemnity, we may only recover indemnified amounts for environmental work to the extent that such work is required to comply with environmental laws or is reasonably required to prevent an interruption in the production of chlor-alkali products. We are responsible for certain actions taken without the ZENECA Companies’ consent, for certain operations and maintenance costs of the groundwater treatment system at the facility, and for pre- and post-acquisition environmental costs relating to the chlor-alkali manufacturing operations at the Henderson facility. In January 2006 a Settlement Agreement and Administrative Order on Consent was entered into by the Nevada Division of Environmental Protection and various of the companies with historical operations at the Black Mountain Industrial Park, including Pioneer Americas. While the agreement provides for joint and several liability for certain costs that will be incurred in remediating off-site contamination in the vicinity of our facility, we believe that the ZENECA indemnity extends to the liabilities associated with most, if not all, of such contamination and that, in any event, amounts available under certain environmental insurance policies will be sufficient to cover such costs. Payments for environmental liabilities under the ZENECA Indemnity, together with other non-environmental liabilities for which the ZENECA Companies agreed to indemnify us, are limited to approximately $65 million. To date we have been reimbursed for approximately $12 million of costs covered by the ZENECA Indemnity, but the ZENECA Companies have directly incurred additional costs that would further reduce the total amount remaining under the ZENECA Indemnity. We have recorded an environmental reserve related to pre-closing actions at sites that are the responsibility of the ZENECA Companies, as well as a receivable from the ZENECA Companies for the same amount. It is our policy to record such amounts when a liability can be reasonably estimated. The timing of future cash flows for environmental work is uncertain, such that those cash flows do not qualify for discounting under generally accepted accounting 13 Table of Contents principles. As a result, the environmental liabilities and related receivables are recorded at their undiscounted amounts of $3.2 million at December 31, 2005. The environmental liabilities are included in our environmental reserves, which are recorded as other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. The ZENECA Indemnity expired in April 1999, but it continues to apply to claims to the extent that, prior to the expiration of the indemnity, proper notice to the ZENECA Companies was given and either the ZENECA Companies have assumed control of such claims or we were contesting the legal requirements that gave rise to such claims, or had commenced removal, remedial or maintenance work with respect to such claims, or commenced an investigation which resulted in the commencement of such work within ninety days. Our management believes proper notice was provided to the ZENECA Companies with respect to outstanding claims under the ZENECA Indemnity, but the amount of such claims has not yet been determined, given the ongoing nature of the environmental work at Henderson. We believe that the ZENECA Companies will continue to honor their obligations under the ZENECA Indemnity for claims properly presented by us. If disputes arise between the parties concerning the effect of contractual language, we would need to submit our claims for cleanup expenses, which could be substantial, to the contractually-established arbitration process. PCI Canada Acquisition Indemnity. In connection with our acquisition of the assets of PCI Canada in 1997, Imperial Chemical Industrials PLC (“ICI”) and certain of its affiliates (together the “ICI Indemnitors”) agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities associated with environmental matters arising from pre-closing operations of the Canadian facilities. In particular, the ICI Indemnitors have agreed to retain unlimited responsibility for environmental liabilities associated with the leased Cornwall site, liabilities arising out of the discharge of contaminants into rivers and marine sediments and liabilities arising out of off-site disposal sites. The ICI Indemnitors are also subject to a general environmental indemnity for other pre-closing environmental matters. This general indemnity will terminate on October 31, 2007, and is subject to a limit of $25 million (Cdn). We may not recover under the environmental indemnity until we have incurred cumulative costs of $1 million (Cdn), at which point we may recover costs in excess of $1 million (Cdn). As of December 31, 2005, we had not incurred any costs covered by the $25 million (Cdn) indemnity, and currently we do not anticipate incurring any liabilities that will be recoverable under the indemnity. With respect to the Becancour and Dalhousie facilities, the ICI Indemnitors are responsible under the general environmental indemnity for a portion of the costs incurred in any year during the period ending on October 31, 2007, subject in any event to the $1 million (Cdn) threshold mentioned above. The ICI Indemnitors will be responsible for 32% of any liabilities incurred during the twelve months ending October 31, 2006, and 16% of any liabilities incurred during the twelve months ending October 31, 2007. After October 31, 2007, we will be responsible for all environmental liabilities at such facilities, other than liabilities arising from pre-closing off-site disposal of waste generated at these (or other) facilities for which ICI retains liability. ICI also retains liability for the pre-closing discharge of contaminants into rivers and marine sediments at the Cornwall site and for other environmental claims relating to pre-closing or post-closing activities of ICI at the Cornwall site. We have agreed to indemnify ICI for environmental liabilities arising from post-closing operations and for liabilities arising from pre-closing operations for which we are not indemnified by the ICI Indemnitors. In March 2003, we initiated arbitration proceedings to resolve a dispute with ICI regarding the applicability of certain of ICI’s covenants with respect to approximately $1.1 million (Cdn) of equipment modification costs, most of which were capital expenditures that we made to achieve compliance with air emissions, effluent and waste sludge standards at our Becancour facility. Those proceedings are still pending. OxyChem Indemnity for Tacoma Site. In December 2005 we sold the site of a chlor-alkali facility that we previously operated in Tacoma to a subsidiary of OxyChem. In connection with the sale, we received an indemnification with respect to all obligations for the investigation, cleanup or remediation of the environment as a result of all past operations at the facility. OxyChem has also guaranteed Mariana’s obligations in connection with the sale. On March 15, 2005, the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington entered a consent decree relating to the remediation of the Hylebos Waterway in Tacoma, and we were made a party to the decree by virtue of our ownership of the Tacoma site at the time. The indemnification that we 14 Table of Contents received in connection with the sale of the facility extends to all obligations arising under the consent decree. The receipt of the indemnity for the environmental matters at the Tacoma facility resulted in a $4.5 million reduction in the environmental reserves that we had established earlier in the year with respect to the site. See our discussion of our environmental legal matters in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” below, and Note 11 “Commitments and Contingencies — Litigation” of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Employees As of December 31, 2005, we had 524 employees, 239 of whom are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Fifty-two of our employees at our Henderson facility are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the United Steelworkers of America, which expires in March 2010. Nine employees at our Henderson facility are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, which expires in March 2007. At our Becancour facility, 127 employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the Communication, Energy and Paperworkers Union, which expires on April 30, 2006. Thirty-seven of our employees at the Dalhousie plant are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the Communication, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada, which expires in May 2007. Seven employees at our Tacoma bleach facility are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the Teamsters Union, which expires in December 2008. Two unionized facilities, the Cornwall plant and our Tacoma terminal, have been shut down. Our employees at our other production facilities are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. We consider our relationship with our employees to be satisfactory, and we have not experienced any recent strikes or work stoppages. Financial Information about Geographic Areas For financial information about our geographic areas of operation, please see the table in Note 9 “Business Segment Information” of our consolidated financial statements, which presents revenues attributable to each of our geographic areas for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, and assets attributable to each of our geographic areas as of December 31, 2005 and 2004. Access to Filings Access to our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, as well as reports filed electronically pursuant to Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act, may be obtained through our Internet web site (http://www.piona.com). These reports may be viewed and printed at no cost as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The contents of our Internet web site are not, and shall not be deemed to be, incorporated into this report. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS We are including the following discussion to inform our existing and potential security holders generally of some of the risks and uncertainties that can affect our company and to take advantage of the “safe harbor” protection for forward-looking statements that applicable federal securities law affords. From time to time, our management or persons acting on our behalf make forward-looking statements to inform existing and potential security holders about our company. These statements may include projections and estimates concerning the timing and success of specific projects and our future prices, liquidity, backlog, debt levels, production, revenue, income, expenses, product margins, cash flows, capital spending and pension contributions. Forward-looking statements are generally accompanied by words such as “estimate,” “project,” “predict,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “could,” “intend,” “may,” “might,” “potential,” “should,” “forecast,” “budget,” “goal” or other words that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. In addition, sometimes we will specifically describe a statement as being a forward-looking 15 Table of Contents statement and refer to this cautionary statement. Any statement contained in this report, other than statements of historical fact, is a forward-looking statement. Various statements this report contains, including those that express a belief, expectation or intention, as well as those that are not statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. Those forward-looking statements appear in Item 1, “Business,” Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” Item 2, “Properties,” and Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” in Part I of this report and in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” and in the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of Part II of this report and elsewhere in this report. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report, we disclaim any obligation to update these statements, and we caution against any undue reliance on them. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and assumptions about future events. While our management considers these expectations and assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. Many of these risks, contingencies and uncertainties are described immediately below in Item 1A “Risk Factors” and also relate to, among other matters, the following: • general economic, business and market conditions, including economic instability or a downturn in the markets served by us; • the cyclical nature of our product markets and operating results; • competitive pressures affecting selling prices and volumes; • the supply/demand balance for our products, including the impact of excess industry capacity or the construction of new industry capacity; • the occurrence of unexpected manufacturing interruptions and outages, including those occurring as a result of production hazards or an interruption in the supply of electricity, salt or other raw materials; • failure to comply with financial covenants contained in our debt instruments; • inability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our indebtedness; • loss of key customers or suppliers; • increased prices for raw materials, including electricity; • disruption of transportation or higher than expected transportation or logistics costs; • environmental costs and other expenditures in excess of those projected; • changes in laws and regulations inside or outside the United States; • uncertainty with respect to interest rates and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • limitations on our NOL utilization; • the outcome of the operational efficiency project that we began implementing in the first quarter of 2004; • our ability to effect the sale of certain excess land and water rights at our Henderson facility; and • the occurrence of extraordinary events, such as the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon that occurred on September 11, 2001, or the war in Iraq. We believe the items we have outlined above and the Risk Factors described in Item 1A of this report, as well as other factors, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in a forward-looking statement made in this report or elsewhere by us or on our behalf. These factors are not necessarily all of the important factors that could affect us. Unpredictable or unknown factors that we have not discussed in this report could also have material adverse effects on actual results of matters that are the subject of our 16 Table of Contents forward-looking statements. We advise our security holders that they should (i) be aware that important factors we do not refer to above could affect the accuracy of our forward-looking statements and (ii) use caution and common sense when considering our forward-looking statements. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The chlor-alkali industry is cyclical and subject to periodic downturns, so accordingly, our operating results should be expected to be cyclical and subject to periodic downturns. The chlor-alkali industry is cyclical, both as a result of changes in demand for chlorine and caustic soda, and as a result of the large increments in which new production capacity is added in the industry. Prices for both chlorine and caustic soda typically respond rapidly to changes in supply and demand. Our historical operating results reflect the cyclical nature of our industry. We experience cycles of fluctuating supply and demand in our chlor-alkali products business, which results in changes in selling prices. Periods of high demand, tight supply and increasing operating margins tend to result in increased capacity and production in the industry until supply exceeds demand, generally followed by periods of oversupply and declining prices. Because of the cyclical nature of our business, our pricing or profitability in the future may not be comparable to any particular historical period. See Item 1. “Business — Marketing, Pricing, Production and Transportation — Pricing” above. The chlor-alkali industry may experience adverse trends in the future, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The following factors contribute to the cyclical nature of our operating results: • Sensitivity to cyclical demand from our customers and general economic conditions. The businesses of most of our customers are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have historically experienced periodic downturns. These economic and industry downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, excess manufacturing capacity and, in most cases, lower average selling prices. Therefore, any significant downturn in our customers’ markets or in global or domestic economic conditions could result in a reduction in demand for our products and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, while we only sell a small percentage of our products overseas, our business is affected by general economic conditions outside of North America since many of our customers sell a portion of their products outside of North America. While demand for both chlorine and caustic soda has been strong during the past year, a decline in domestic and global economic conditions could materially adversely affect demand for our products in the future. • Cyclical imbalances in chlorine and caustic soda demand and production constraints. Because chlorine and caustic soda are produced in a fixed ratio, the supply of one product can be constrained both by the physical capacity of the production facilities and the ability to sell and store the co-product. When chlorine demand is high and production increases as a result, the price of caustic soda may be depressed if there is insufficient demand for the increased supply. This imbalance may have the effect of reducing our operating profits, or even creating operating losses, as declining margins in caustic soda may partially or totally offset or even exceed improving margins in chlorine. On the other hand, when chlorine demand declines so that available storage is filled, production operations must be curtailed, even if demand for caustic soda has increased. This imbalance may also have the effect of reducing our operating profits or even creating operating losses because the improving margins for caustic soda may be partially or totally offset or even exceeded by both declining margins in chlorine and the reduced production of both products. When substantial imbalances occur, we will often be forced to reduce prices or take actions that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. • New industry production capacity is added in large increments. In early 2006, a competitor is expected to begin production at a new chlor-alkali plant in the Northwestern U.S. with an estimated production capacity of approximately 80,000 ECUs. This may impact the market served by our Henderson plant. In addition, another competitor has announced a new chlor-alkali facility in Louisiana with an estimated ultimate production capacity of 450,000 ECUs. This new plant is expected to commence operations in two stages, with the first stage estimated to occur during the second half of 17 Table of Contents 2007 and the second stage estimated to occur by the end of 2008. While we anticipate that the chlorine produced by this new Louisiana facility will be used internally by the competitor to produce other products, the added production of caustic soda is expected to put downward pressure on caustic soda prices in the markets served by our St. Gabriel plant. • Limited ability to control selling prices. Most of our customers consider price one of the most significant factors when choosing among the various suppliers of chlor-alkali products. We have limited ability to influence prices in this large commodity market. Decreases in the average selling prices of our products could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. While we strive to maintain or increase our profitability by reducing costs through improving production efficiency, emphasizing higher margin products, and controlling selling and administration expenses, these efforts are usually not sufficient to offset fully the effect of any decline in ECU prices on operating results. Our profitability could decrease because of reduced customer demand that is difficult to predict. Some of our contracts require us to supply a customer’s product requirements up to a designated maximum amount, but the customer has no obligation to buy the product. While this requires us to allocate a portion of our estimated production to meet those anticipated requirements, we bear the risk if the customer’s needs unexpectedly decrease. A customer’s demand for our products may decrease due to seasonal slowdowns in the customer’s business, or other events that reduce demand from an entire industry sector or from a particular customer. In particular, a customer’s plant may be shut down due to planned or unplanned maintenance needs or extreme weather conditions, such as during Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. When a particular customer’s demand unexpectedly decreases, we may not be able to find alternative purchasers for the product and may have to curtail production as a result. We find it difficult to predict reduced customer demand, although we attempt to minimize the difficulty by maintaining regular contact with customers and discussing their production plans with them. Our operating results or financial condition may be materially adversely affected by conditions affecting our customer base in the future. We face risks from continued declines in the pulp and paper industry. In 2005, approximately 18% of our sales were to customers in the pulp and paper industry, a decrease from approximately 23% in 2004 and 27% in 2003. The pulp and paper industry sector has been experiencing difficult economic conditions that have led to numerous plant closings. This industry decline is expected to reduce future demand for our products and could affect our ability to collect amounts due from customers in this industry sector, especially if a customer were to declare bankruptcy. Therefore, if the economic decline of this industry continues, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Higher energy prices could increase our cost of producing chlor-alkali products. Energy costs are the largest component of the raw material costs to produce chlor-alkali products. As a result, increases in the cost of energy could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and may cause our production of chlor-alkali products to become less economical or even uneconomical. In particular, increases in natural gas prices directly increase our operating costs at our St. Gabriel and Henderson facilities, which rely on gas-powered energy producers. Natural gas-based power has generally been more costly than hydropower and has experienced greater price volatility than hydropower. In particular, natural gas prices were at historically high levels in 2005, and while they have decreased somewhat in early 2006 from 2005 levels, prices remain high relative to years prior to 2005. The current contract with the provider of power to our Henderson facility terminates in 2006 and, in the absence of an extension of the term, it will be necessary to seek an alternative arrangement for the purchase of power for the Henderson facility. When energy prices rise, we may not be able to increase the selling prices of our products at the same time, and under those circumstances our operating margins would decrease. In addition, to the extent our competitors are able to secure less expensive power than we are due to their geographic location or otherwise, we may be at a competitive disadvantage. We are unable to predict the future impact that energy prices may 18 Table of Contents have on the results of our operations. See Item 1. “Business — Marketing, Pricing, Production and Transportation” above. The shipment of chlorine by rail may be negatively impacted by rail industry initiatives and potential changes to existing regulatory and/or legislative requirements. We ship approximately 62% of our annual production of chlorine by rail. Chlorine is classified as a hazardous material that is toxic by inhalation (commonly referred to as a Toxic Inhalation Hazard or “TIH”), and constitutes approximately 35% of the total TIH materials that are transported each year by the US freight rail industry. The rail industry, through the Association of American Railroads (“AAR”), has expressed concern that the shipment of chlorine by rail poses a safety concern because of past derailments of chlorine rail cars that have caused injuries and deaths. The AAR, some cities and federal regulatory agencies also have raised security concerns that rail cars carrying chlorine could be a target for terrorists. As a result of these safety and security concerns, our ability to ship chlorine by rail, which is critical to our ability to supply chlorine to our customers, may be negatively impacted by the following: • Proposed new tank car standards. The AAR’s tank car standard setting committee, the Tank Car Committee, is considering adoption of a new tank car performance standard for chlorine and anhydrous ammonia tank cars that it believes would reduce the probability of a tank car release in the event of an accident. The Tank Car Committee also is proposing that the existing fleet of tank cars that transport TIH products be replaced within a period of 5-7 years by tank cars that meet the new standard. If adopted, this new requirement would require us to update our fleet of leased tank cars, which would result in increased lease costs for the new tank cars. In addition, the new tank car being proposed is heavier than existing tank cars when fully loaded (286,000 pounds versus 263,000 pounds for existing tank cars), and substantial portions of the rail track on our existing routes are unable to handle the heavier tank cars when fully loaded. Therefore, the new tank car standard would require us to reduce the chlorine payload that is being shipped in the new tank cars, which in turn would require us to use more tank cars to ship our chlorine to customers and increase our shipping costs. • Increased rail transport prices. Rail industry pricing practices result in substantially higher rates for the transportation of chlorine than most other chemicals due to safety and security concerns with chlorine products. • Proposed bans and/or re-routing requirements on the shipment of chlorine and other TIH products. In February 2005, Washington, D.C. passed a ban on the transportation of certain hazardous materials, including chlorine, by rail or truck through certain portions of Washington, D.C. on the belief that it will reduce the risk of a terrorist attack. Although the enforcement of this law has been stayed by litigation brought by a rail company on the basis that the D.C. law is preempted by the Federal Railroad Safety Act, other cities are considering similar legislation. If the D.C. ban were ultimately allowed, other cities may be expected to pass similar bans. In addition, one or more bills have been introduced in Congress that would require the Department of Homeland Security to re-route TIH and other hazardous materials, as well as implement other safety measures for the transport of hazardous materials. Any such re-routing requirements would disrupt our ability to ship chlorine to our customers since we would have to find alternate routes for our shipments, which would likely make the shipment of chlorine more costly. • Proposed contract changes in our rail transport contracts. One of our existing rail transportation companies has notified its customers that ship chlorine, including us, that it will require new contract provisions that will have the effect of shifting any liability resulting from a rail car accident or terrorist attack to us. If we are required to accept such liability as a condition to maintaining our ability to ship chlorine, this could increase our insurance costs or hinder our ability to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms to cover these risks. Another of our existing rail transportation companies has requested the ability to terminate service to us upon 30 days’ notice. A railroad’s ability to force changes in the terms upon which services are provided to us, and to do so in a short period of time, means that available rail transportation could be reduced or even eliminated, or that we could be 19 Table of Contents required to incur substantial increases in the cost of service. There could be further and more severe disruptions to rail service, which might affect our ability to meet our contractual obligations. Our chlorine plants are each served by only one rail carrier, so we do not have the ability to shift our business to alternate rail carriers. We require rail transportation to efficiently and cost-effectively distribute our chlorine and other products to our customers. Each of the matters discussed above would make it more difficult and/or substantially more costly for us to ship chlorine by rail. Furthermore, our ability to increase prices when costs increase may be limited both by existing contracts that require us to bear the risks of increased transportation costs and market conditions existing at that time. We are subject to possible risk of terrorist attacks which could adversely affect our operations. Since September 11, 2001, there have been increasing concerns that chemical manufacturing facilities and railcars carrying chlorine and other TIH materials may be at an increased risk of future terrorist attacks. Additionally, federal, state and local governments have begun a regulatory process that could lead to new regulations impacting the security of chemical industry facilities. Our business could be adversely impacted if a terrorist incident were to occur at any chemical facility or while a railcar or tank truck was transporting chlorine or any similar chemical. In addition, our business could be affected due to the cost of complying with new regulations. While we carry insurance for terrorist attacks, there can be no assurances that the coverage or amounts of such insurance would be sufficient to cover the losses that could result from a terrorist attack on one of our facilities, railcars or tank trucks. Our facilities are subject to operating hazards and other disruptions that may disrupt our operations. We are dependent upon the continued safe operation of our production facilities. Our production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture, handling, storage and transportation of hazardous materials and products, including leaks and ruptures, chemical spills or releases, pollution, explosions, fires, inclement weather, natural disasters, unscheduled downtime and environmental hazards. From time to time in the past, incidents have occurred at our plants, including hazardous chlorine releases, that have temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupted our manufacturing, causing production delays and resulting in liability for injuries. In addition, our production is subject to disruption by outside events that are beyond our control, such as rail transportation disruptions, unexpected reductions in customer orders, planned and unplanned maintenance outages, and acts of nature. See Item 1. “Business — Marketing, Pricing, Production and Transportation — Production — Disruptions in 2005.” We believe our operating and safety procedures are consistent in all material respects with those established by the chemical industry as well as those recommended or required by federal, state and local governmental authorities. However, we may experience these types of incidents in the future and these incidents could result in production delays or otherwise could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We maintain general liability insurance and property and business interruption insurance with coverage limits we believe are appropriate. However, because of the nature of industry hazards, liabilities for pollution and other damages arising from a major occurrence may exceed our insurance coverage or policy limits and adequate insurance may not be available at reasonable rates in the future. Labor disputes under our collective bargaining agreements may disrupt our business. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 46% of our employees are employed under the terms of collective bargaining agreements. One of our collective bargaining agreements will expire in 2006, two agreements will expire in 2007, one will expire in 2008, and the remaining agreement will expire in 2010. In the future we could be involved in labor disputes in connection with the renegotiation of these agreements or otherwise that could lead to strikes or work stoppages, and the resulting production delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Most of the production and maintenance employees at our Becancour facility are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the Communication, Energy and Paperworkers Union that is in effect until 20 Table of Contents April 30, 2006. We are in the process of negotiating with the union for the terms of a new agreement to replace the existing agreement. If we are unable to negotiate a satisfactory new collective bargaining agreement, we could be involved in a labor dispute or strike that could lead to a plant shutdown and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to the financial and tax effects of US to Canadian dollar currency translation, which are subject to economic forces beyond our control. A portion of our sales and expenditures are denominated in Canadian dollars, and accordingly, our results of operations and cash flows are affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar. Future changes in the relative value of the U.S. dollar against the Canadian dollar will impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our Senior Notes, while denominated in U.S. dollars, were issued by our Canadian subsidiary. As a result, the payment of the Senior Notes prior to or at maturity may create a tax liability due to changes in the exchange rate. For Canadian tax purposes, a foreign exchange gain or loss is determined based on the difference between the exchange rate prevailing when the debt repayment is made and the exchange rate of 1.5928 when the Senior Notes were originally issued on December 31, 2001. Our redemption of $50 million of the Senior Notes on January 13, 2006, when the exchange rate was 1.1604, resulted in a foreign exchange gain (treated as a capital gain for Canadian tax purposes) of approximately $18.7 million. While we have a capital loss carry-forward for Canadian tax purposes sufficient to offset this gain in 2006, the tax consequences of the redemption will result in the use of a substantial portion of our Canadian capital loss carry-forward which will then no longer be available for use against future income. The Senior Notes are due in December 2008 and we are considering whether to refinance the remaining $100 million principal balance of the Senior Notes prior to their scheduled maturity date, which could accelerate the realization of any related tax liabilities due to exchange rate differences. In addition, we expect to receive proceeds of approximately $22.8 million from the sale of certain excess acreage in Henderson, Nevada sometime in the second half of 2006 that we anticipate will be applied to prepay the Senior Notes. If the exchange rate for Canadian dollars to U.S. dollars on the date of payment of any portion of the Senior Notes is less than the exchange rate when the Senior Notes were originally issued on December 31, 2001, we would have a Canadian tax liability based on such difference, which could be material. Because we are unable to determine the exchange rate that will be in effect when we ultimately repay the Senior Notes, we are unable at this time to determine the amount of such tax liability, if any. We have ongoing environmental costs and we may be exposed to environmental liabilities that are not currently reserved for in our financial statements. The nature of our operations and products, and the raw materials that we handle, expose us to a risk of environmental liabilities and claims. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs and capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the United States and Canada. The ultimate costs and timing of environmental liabilities are difficult to predict. Liability under environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. One liable party could be held responsible for all costs at a site, regardless of fault, percentage of contribution to the site or the legality of the original disposal. We could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, natural resources damages, civil or criminal fines and sanctions and third-party claims, as a result of past or future violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. In addition, future events, such as changes to or more rigorous enforcement of environmental laws, could require us to make additional expenditures, modify or curtail our operations or install pollution control equipment. See Item 1. “Business — Environmental Regulation” above and Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II of this report. In addition, see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” for a description of certain legal proceedings that have arisen from environmental matters. We are entitled to indemnification in various degrees by third parties for particular environmental costs and liabilities associated with real property that we have acquired. We could incur significant costs if an 21 Table of Contents indemnifying party is unable or unwilling to fulfill its obligation to indemnify us, if any of such agreements is terminated, or if the coverage limits under any of such agreements are inadequate. See Item 1. “Business — Environmental Regulation — Indemnities” above. We perform periodic assessments of our environmental obligations, with the most recent being in 2005. The 2005 study, like the preceding assessment in 2003, was performed by an independent consulting firm and was based on scenario analysis to estimate the cost to remedy environmental concerns at all of our plant sites. For each scenario, the study also used cost estimating techniques that included actual historical costs, estimates prepared for us by our engineers and outside consultants, and other published cost data available for similar projects completed at the same or other sites. See Item 1. “Business — Environmental Regulation — Environmental Assessment and Reserve.” Based on the 2005 study, the costs incurred and other events since the study completion, our total estimated environmental liabilities were $14.5 million at December 31, 2005. We base our environmental reserves on undiscounted costs. There can be no assurances that actual remedial costs or associated liabilities will not exceed accrued amounts. At some of our locations, regulatory agencies are considering whether additional actions are necessary to protect or remediate surface or groundwater resources. We could be required to incur additional costs to construct and operate remediation systems in the future. In addition, our environmental reserves do not include any amounts with respect to liabilities that may arise as a result of the environmental legal matters discussed below in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” We are undergoing management turnover with respect to our Chief Executive Officer, other executive officers and our board of directors. On November 14, 2005, we announced that our Chief Executive Officer, Michael Y. McGovern, would like to discontinue his employment with the us at some point in 2006 but would continue his service as President and CEO until his successor has been identified and elected. A search firm has been retained to assist the board in finding the successor. David N. Weinstein, our former non-executive Chairman, resigned from the board effective December 31, 2005, and Mr. McGovern was elected Chairman as of that date. Kent R. Stephenson, our former Secretary and General Counsel, resigned effective January 31, 2006. Finally, three of the current four independent members of our board of directors, Charles L. Mears, Richard L. Urbanowski and Robert E. Allen, and one inside director, David A. Scholes, have been elected to the board at various times during the past two years, and therefore our current board of directors represents a substantial change from the board that existed when we emerged from bankruptcy at the end of 2001. We are unable to predict whether and, if so, to what degree these changes in our management and board of directors will create organizational stress and uncertainty on various members of our remaining management and employees. We are subject to litigation and other claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses. We are a defendant in a number of pending legal proceedings relating to our present and former operations. See Item 3.“Legal Proceedings” for a description of certain legal proceedings pending against us, which include alleged exposure of plaintiffs to mercury vapor emissions. We believe we have valid defenses to these proceedings and are defending them vigorously. Because of the inherent uncertainties of litigation, however, we are unable to predict the outcome of these proceedings and therefore cannot determine whether the financial impact, if any, will be material to our financial position or results of operations. We face competition from other chemical companies, which could adversely affect our revenues and financial condition. The chlor-alkali industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We encounter competition in price, delivery, service, performance, and product recognition and quality, depending on the product involved. Many of our competitors are significantly larger and have greater financial resources than we do. Additionally, some of our competitors have chlor-alkali manufacturing facilities that are larger and more cost-effective than our facilities. Among our competitors are two of the world’s largest chemical companies, Dow and OxyChem. Because of their greater financial resources and manufacturing economies of scale, these and other larger companies in our industry may be better able to withstand severe price competition and volatile market conditions. See Item 1. “Business — Overview — Chlorine Products Market; Competition” above. 22 Table of Contents Availability of our net operating loss carry-forward may be limited by the Internal Revenue Code, which could negatively affect our after-tax cash flows in future periods. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $56.7 million of net operating loss carry-forward (“NOL”) for U.S. income tax purposes. U.S. NOL in the amount of $7.6 million (the “Predecessor Company NOL”), which expires from 2008 to 2020, was generated prior to our emergence from bankruptcy on December 31, 2001. The remaining $49.1 million of U.S. NOL (the “Successor Company NOL”) was generated in 2002 through 2004 and will expire in 2023 and 2024. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change” (generally defined as a greater-than-50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period), the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change NOL and other pre-change tax attributes against its post-change income is limited (the “Section 382 Limitation”). As a result of our emergence from bankruptcy and changes in the ownership of our common stock in 2000 and 2001, our utilization of the $7.6 million of Predecessor Company NOL is subject to a Section 382 Limitation of approximately $500,000 per year. Furthermore, our use of $49.1 million of Successor Company NOL may also be subject to the Section 382 Limitation as a result of subsequent changes in the ownership of our common stock. While we cannot quantify the amount of Successor Company NOL that would be available on an annual basis to offset future taxable income as a result of the application of the Section 382 Limitation, our after-tax cash flow would be negatively affected by reason of its application. We have pension plans that are currently under-funded, and may need to be funded in future years. We have defined benefit pension plans that may require additional funding of an uncertain amount in the future. If there are declines in the securities markets or declines in the discount rate used to estimate our pension liability, our unfunded pension liability will increase and we may have to fund additional amounts to our defined benefit pension plans in future years. We are dependent upon a limited number of key suppliers. The production of chlor-alkali products principally requires electricity, salt and water as raw materials, and if the supply of such materials were limited or a significant supplier failed to meet its obligations under our current supply arrangements, we could be forced to incur increased costs which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See also “The shipment of chlorine by rail may be negatively impacted by rail industry initiatives and potential changes to existing regulatory and/or legislative requirements.” The restrictive terms of our indebtedness may limit our ability to grow and compete. Our operating flexibility is limited by covenants contained in our Senior Notes and our revolving credit facility that limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, prepay or modify debt instruments, create additional liens upon assets, guarantee any obligations, sell assets and make dividend payments. The covenants contained in our debt instruments could limit our ability to grow and compete. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Part II of this report. We will need to pay or refinance our outstanding indebtedness at or prior to its maturity in 2008. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in order to make scheduled payments on our debt and to satisfy our other obligations depends on a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet these demands. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to pay our expenses and satisfy our debt obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, sell assets or raise additional equity. In addition, we may need to raise additional capital or undertake additional financing in order to maintain and grow our operations in order to remain competitive in our industry. 23 Table of Contents After the prepayment of $50 million on our Senior Notes in January 2006, we had $100 million of principal remaining that is due in December 2008. As of December 31, 2005, and February 28, 2006, we had no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility, which expires in December 2006. If the cash that we generate from our operations is not sufficient to repay the outstanding principal amounts, if any, of the revolving credit facility, and the Senior Notes when they are due in December 2008, it would be necessary to refinance the indebtedness, issue new equity or sell assets. The terms of any new borrowings could impose significant additional costs and burdens on our financial condition and operating flexibility, and the issuance of new equity securities could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders. The success of our future financing efforts may depend on many factors, including but not limited to: • the current and future outlook for the chlor-alkali industry; • general economic and capital market conditions; • the availability of credit from banks and other financial institutions; • investor confidence in us and the market in which we operate; • market expectations regarding our future earnings and probable cash flows; • market perceptions of our ability to access capital markets on reasonable terms; and • provisions of relevant tax and securities laws. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, raise equity on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or sell assets, and any of such eventualities could cause us to default on our obligations, impair our liquidity and restrict our ability to continue our operations as currently conducted and to compete in the future. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Under those circumstances, we would have to take appropriate action including restructuring or reorganizing all or a portion of our indebtedness, deferring payments on our debt, selling assets, incurring additional debt or issuing additional equity or taking other actions, including seeking protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and under Canada’s Companies Creditors’ Arrangement Act. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Part II of this report. The concentrated ownership of our common stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company. As of March 1, 2006, based on information that we have obtained from filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Ardsley Advisory Partners Fund II, L.P., et al., Barclays Global Investors, NA. et.al, FMR Corp., Hotchkis & Wiley Capital Management, LLC et al., Kingdon Capital Management, LLC, Mellon Financial Corporation, and Ore Hub Fund Ltd. et al., owned approximately 6.4%, 10.1%, 7.6%, 10.8%, 6.4%, 5.4% and 5.0%, respectively, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, these beneficial owners, if they were to act together, could be in a position to significantly influence the outcome of matters requiring a stockholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our certificate of incorporation or bylaws and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. This concentrated ownership of our common stock may have the effect of bringing about, delaying or preventing a change of control of our company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There were no written comments received from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding the Company’s periodic or current reports under the Act which were received more than 180 days before the end of the fiscal year that ended December 31, 2005, and which remain unresolved. 24 Table of Contents 