ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following information sets forth factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements we have made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and those we may make from time to time. You should carefully consider the following risks, together with other matters described in this Form 10-K or incorporated herein by reference in evaluating our business and prospects. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our securities could decline, in some cases significantly. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. Our future water revenues are uncertain and depend on a number of factors that may make our revenue streams and profitability volatile. We engage in various water resource acquisition, management, development, and sale and lease activities. Accordingly, our future profitability will primarily be dependent on our ability to develop and sell or lease water and water rights. Our long-term profitability will be affected by various factors, including the timing of water resource acquisitions, regulatory approvals and permits associated with such acquisitions, transportation arrangements, and changing technology. We may also encounter unforeseen technical difficulties which could result in construction delays and cost increases with respect to our water resource and water storage development projects. Moreover, our profitability is significantly affected by changes in the market price of water. Future prices of water may fluctuate widely as demand is affected by climatic, demographic and technological factors. Additionally, to the extent that we possess junior or conditional water rights, during extreme climatic conditions, such as periods of low flow or drought, our water rights could be subordinated to superior water rights holders. Many of the factors described above are not within our control. One or more of these factors could impact the profitability of our water resources and cause our results of operations to be volatile. Our water activities may become concentrated in a limited number of assets, making our growth and profitability vulnerable to fluctuations in local economies and governmental regulations. In the future, we anticipate that a significant amount of Vidler’s revenues and asset value will come from a limited number of assets, including our water resources in Nevada and Arizona and the Vidler Arizona Recharge Facility. Water resources in this region are scarce and we may not be successful in continuing to acquire and develop additional water assets. If we are unable to develop additional water assets, our revenues will be derived from a limited number of assets, primarily located in Arizona and Nevada. As a result of this concentration, our invested capital and results of operation will be vulnerable to fluctuations in local economies and governmental regulations. Vidler’s Arizona Recharge facility is one of the few private sector water storage sites in Arizona. To date, we have stored more than 100,000 acre feet at the facility for our own account. We have not stored any water on behalf of any customers, and have not as yet generated any revenue from the recharge facility. We believe that the best economic return on the asset will come from storing water in surplus years for sale in dry years; however we cannot assure you that we will ultimately be able sell the stored water at a price sufficient to provide an adequate return on the capital we have invested in the facility. A subsidiary of Vidler’s is constructing a pipeline approximately 35 miles long, to deliver water from Fish Springs Ranch to the northern valleys of Reno, Nevada. Vidler estimates that the total cost of the pipeline will be in the $78 million to $83 million range, and completion is estimated to be late 2007 or early 2008. To date, Vidler has only entered into sale agreements for a very small proportion of the total amount of water that will be conveyed through the pipeline to the northern valleys of Reno. By the time construction of the pipeline has been completed, we anticipate that negotiations will have begun with the principal buyers of this water, who will largely be real estate developers. Although the current market value of water in the area greatly exceeds the total estimated cost of the pipeline and the water to be supplied, we cannot assure you that the sales prices we obtain will provide an adequate return on capital employed in the project. Furthermore, if our negotiations do not result in prices that are acceptable to us, we may choose to monetize the water at a later time, which would have an adverse effect on our near-term revenues and cash flows. 10 Table of Contents Our water sales may meet with political opposition in certain locations, thereby limiting our growth in these areas. The water rights we hold and the transferability of these rights to other uses and places of use are governed by the laws concerning the laws concerning water rights in the states of Arizona, California, and Nevada. Our sale of water resources is subject to the risks of delay associated with receiving all necessary regulatory approvals and permits. Additionally, the transfer of water rights from one use to another may affect the economic base of a community and will, in some instances, be met with local opposition. Moreover, certain of the end users of our water rights, namely municipalities, regulate the use of water in order to manage growth, thereby creating additional requirements that we must satisfy to sell and convey water resources. If we are unable to effectively sell and convey water rights, our liquidity will suffer and our revenues would decline. The fair values of our real estate and water assets are linked to external growth factors. The real estate and water assets we hold have fair values that are significantly affected by the growth in population and the general state of the local economies where our real estate and water assets are located, primarily in the states of Arizona and Nevada. The current decline in the U.S. housing market, including the housing markets in Arizona and Nevada, may lead to a near-term slowdown in demand for our real estate and water assets, which could cause a decline in our revenues and income. While we do not expect long-term demand for our assets to decline, a slowdown in the housing market may impact the timing of our monetization of our real estate and water assets. Any prolonged delay in the monetization of our assets may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Variances in physical availability of water, along with environmental and legal restrictions and legal impediments, could impact profitability from our water rights. We value our water assets, in part, based upon the amounts of acre-feet of water we anticipate from water rights applications and permitted rights. The water rights held by us and the transferability of these rights to other uses and places of use are governed by the laws concerning water rights in the states of Arizona, Colorado and Nevada. The volumes of water actually derived from the water rights applications or permitted rights may vary considerably based upon physical availability and may be further limited by applicable legal restrictions. As a result, the amounts of acre-feet anticipated from the water rights applications or permitted rights do not in every case represent a reliable, firm annual yield of water, but in some cases describe the face amount of the water right claims or management’s best estimate of such entitlement. Additionally, we may face legal restrictions on the sale or transfer of some of our water rights, which may affect their commercial value. If we were unable to transfer or sell our water rights, we may lose some or all of our value in our water rights acquisitions. We may not receive all of the permitted water rights we expect from the water rights applications we have filed in Nevada. We have filed certain water rights applications in Nevada, primarily as part of the water teaming agreement with Lincoln County. Vidler expends the capital required to enable the filed applications to be converted into permitted water rights. We only expend capital in those areas where our initial investigations lead us to believe that we can obtain a sufficient quantity of water to provide an adequate return on the capital employed in the project. These capital expenditures largely consist of drilling and engineering costs for water production, costs of monitoring wells, and legal and consulting costs for hearings with the State Engineer, and National Environmental Protection Act, or “NEPA”, compliance costs. Until the State Engineer permits the water rights, there can be no assurance that we will be awarded all of the water which we expect based on the results of our drilling and our legal position. Any significant reduction in the quantity of water awarded to us from our expectations could adversely affect our revenues, profitability, and cash flows. Our sale of water may be subject to environmental regulations which would impact the profitability of such sales. The quality of the water we lease or sell may be subject to regulation by the United States Environmental Protection Agency acting pursuant to the federal Safe Drinking Water Act. While environmental regulations do not directly affect us, the regulations regarding the quality of water distributed affects our intended customers and may, therefore, depending on the quality of our water, impact the price and terms upon which we may in the future sell our water rights. If we need to reduce the price of our water rights in order to make a sale to our intended customers, our results of operations could suffer. 11 Table of Contents Purchasers of our real estate and water assets may default on their obligations to us and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. In certain circumstances, we finance sales of real estate and water assets, and we secure such financing through deeds of trust on the property, which are only released once the financing has been fully paid off. Purchasers of our real estate and water assets may default on their financing obligations. Such defaults may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and the results of operations and cash flows. If we do not successfully locate, select and manage acquisitions and investments, or if our acquisitions or investments otherwise fail or decline in value, our financial condition could suffer. We invest in businesses that we believe are undervalued or that will benefit from additional capital, restructuring of operations or improved competitiveness through operational efficiencies. If a business in which we invest fails or its fair value declines, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, the results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, we may not be able to find sufficient opportunities to make our business strategy successful. Our failure to successfully locate, select and manage acquisition and investment opportunities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, the results of operations and cash flows. Such business failures, declines in fair values, and/or failure to successfully locate, select and manage acquisitions or investments could result in an inferior return on shareholders’ equity. We could also lose part or all of our capital in these businesses and experience reductions in our net income, cash flows, assets and shareholders’ equity. Failure to successfully manage newly acquired companies could adversely affect our business. Our management of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, and finance. These efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of our management’s time and could distract our management from the day-to-day operations of our business. The diversion of our management’s attention from the day-to-day operations, or difficulties encountered in the integration process, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and the results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully, we may be unable to achieve our strategic goals and the value of your investment could suffer. Our acquisitions may result in dilution to our shareholders and increase liabilities. We make selective acquisitions of companies that we believe could benefit from our resources of additional capital, business expertise or existing operations. We endeavor to enhance and realize additional value to these acquired companies through our influence and control. Any acquisition could result in the use of a significant portion of our available cash, significant dilution to you, and significant acquisition-related charges. Acquisitions may also result in the assumption of liabilities, including liabilities that are unknown or not fully known to us at the time of the acquisition, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our acquisitions and investments may yield low or negative returns for an extended period of time, which could temporarily or permanently depress our return on shareholders’ equity, and we may not realize the value of the funds we invest. We generally make acquisitions and investments that tend to be long term in nature, and for the purpose of realizing additional value by means of appropriate levels of shareholder influence and control. We acquire businesses that we believe to be undervalued or may benefit from additional capital, restructuring of operations or management or improved competitiveness through operational efficiencies with our existing operations. We may not be able to develop acceptable revenue streams and investment returns through the businesses we acquire, and as a result we may lose part or all of our investment in these assets. Additionally, when any of our acquisitions do not achieve acceptable rates of return or we do not realize the value of the funds invested, we may write down the value of such acquisitions or sell the acquired businesses at a loss. Some of our prior acquisitions have lost either part or all of the capital we invested. Unsuccessful acquisitions could have negative impacts on our cash flows, income, assets and shareholders’ equity, which may be temporary or permanent. Moreover, the process we employ to enhance value in our acquisitions and investments can consume considerable amounts of time and resources. Consequently, costs incurred as a result of these acquisitions and investments may exceed their revenues and/or increases in their values for an extended period of time. Ultimately, however, we may not be able to develop the potential of these assets that we originally anticipated. Our ability to achieve an acceptable rate of return on any particular investment is subject to a number of factors which may be beyond our control, including increased competition and loss of market share, quality of management, cyclical or uneven financial results, technological obsolescence, foreign currency risks and regulatory delays. 12 Table of Contents We may not be able to sell our investments when it is advantageous to do so and we may have to sell these investments at a discount to fair value. No active market exists for some of the companies in which we invest. We acquire stakes in private companies that are not as liquid as investments in public companies. Additionally, some of our acquisitions may be in restricted or unregistered stock of U.S. public companies. Moreover, even our investments for which there is an established market are subject to dramatic fluctuations in their market price. These illiquidity factors may affect our ability to divest some of our acquisitions and could affect the value that we receive for the sale of such investments and have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our acquisitions of and investments in foreign companies subject us to additional market and liquidity risks which could affect the value of our stock. We have acquired, and may continue to acquire, shares of stock in foreign public companies. Typically, these foreign companies are not registered with the SEC and regulation of these companies is under the jurisdiction of the relevant foreign country. The respective foreign regulatory regime may limit our ability to obtain timely and comprehensive financial information for the foreign companies in which we have invested. In addition, if a foreign company in which we invest were to take actions which could be deleterious to its shareholders, foreign legal systems may make it difficult or time-consuming for us to challenge such actions. These factors may affect our ability to acquire controlling stakes, or to dispose of our foreign investments, or to realize the full fair value of our foreign investments. In addition, investments in foreign countries may give rise to complex cross-border tax issues. We aim to manage our tax affairs efficiently, but given the complexity of dealing with domestic and foreign tax jurisdictions, we may have to pay tax in both the U.S. and in foreign countries, and we may be unable to offset any U.S. tax liabilities with foreign tax credits. If we are unable to manage our foreign tax issues efficiently, our financial condition and the results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, we are subject to foreign exchange risk through our acquisitions of stocks in foreign public companies. We attempt to mitigate this foreign exchange risk by borrowing funds in the same currency to purchase the stocks. Significant fluctuations in the foreign currencies in which we hold investments or consummate transactions, could negatively impact our financial condition and the results of operations and cash flows. Volatile fluctuations in our insurance reserves could cause our financial condition to be materially misstated. Although we provide reserves that management believes are adequate, the actual losses could be greater. Our insurance subsidiaries may not have established reserves that are adequate to meet the ultimate cost of losses arising from claims. It has been, and will continue to be, necessary for our insurance subsidiaries to review and make appropriate adjustments to reserves for claims and expenses for settling claims. Inadequate reserves could cause our financial condition to fluctuate from period to period and cause our financial condition to appear to be better than it actually is for periods in which insurance claims reserves are understated. In subsequent periods when we discover the underestimation and pay the additional claims, our cash needs will be greater than expected and our financial results of operations for that period will be worse than they would have been had our reserves been accurately estimated originally. The inherent uncertainties in estimating loss reserves are greater for some insurance products than for others, and are dependent on various factors including: · the length of time in reporting claims; · the diversity of historical losses among claims; · the amount of historical information available during the estimation process; · the degree of impact that changing regulations and legal precedents may have on open claims; and · the consistency of reinsurance programs over time. Because medical malpractice liability, commercial property and casualty, and workers’ compensation claims may not be completely paid off for several years, estimating reserves for these types of claims can be more uncertain than estimating reserves for other types of insurance. As a result, precise reserve estimates cannot be made for several years following the year for which reserves were initially established. During the past several years, the levels of the reserves for our insurance subsidiaries have been very volatile. We have had to significantly increase and decrease these reserves in the past several years. Significant increases in the reserves may be necessary in the future, and the level of reserves for our insurance subsidiaries may be volatile in the future. These increases or volatility may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and the results of operations and cash flows. If we underestimate the amount of reinsurance we need or if the companies with which we have reinsurance agreements default on their obligations, we may be unable to cover claims made and that would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have reinsurance agreements on all of our insurance books of business with reinsurance companies. We purchase reinsurance based upon our assessment of the overall direct underwriting risk. It is possible that we may underestimate the amount of reinsurance required to achieve the desired level of net claims risk, and a claim may exceed the combined value of our reserve and the amount of reinsurance available. Additionally, our reinsurers could default on amounts owed to us for their portion of the direct insurance claim. Our insurance subsidiaries, as direct writers of lines of insurance, have ultimate responsibility for the payment of claims, and any defaults by reinsurers may result in our established reserves not being adequate to meet the ultimate cost of losses arising from claims. If claims made exceed the amount of our direct reserves and the available reinsurance, we may be subject to regulatory action or litigation and our results of operation would suffer as a result. 13 Table of Contents State regulators could require changes to our capitalization and/or to the operations of our insurance subsidiaries, and/or place them into rehabilitation or liquidation. Beginning in 1994, Physicians and Citation became subject to the provisions of the Risk-Based Capital for Insurers Model Act which has been adopted by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners for the purpose of helping regulators identify insurers that may be in financial difficulty. The Model Act contains a formula which takes into account asset risk, credit risk, underwriting risk and all other relevant risks. Under this formula, each insurer is required to report to regulators using formulas which measure the quality of its capital and the relationship of its modified capital base to the level of risk assumed in specific aspects of its operations. The formula does not address all of the risks associated with the operations of an insurer. The formula is intended to provide a minimum threshold measure of capital adequacy by an individual insurance company and does not purport to compute a target level of capital. Companies which fall below the threshold will be placed into one of four categories: Company Action Level, where the insurer must submit a plan of corrective action; Regulatory Action Level, where the insurer must submit such a plan of corrective action, the regulator is required to perform such examination or analysis the Superintendent of Insurance considers necessary and the regulator must issue a corrective order; Authorized Control Level, which includes the above actions and may include rehabilitation or liquidation; and Mandatory Control Level, where the regulator must rehabilitate or liquidate the insurer. As of December 31, 2006, all of our insurance subsidiaries’ risk-based capital results exceeded the Company Action Level. However, we cannot assure you that insurance subsidiaries’ risk-based capital results will exceed the Company Action Level in the future. If the risk-based capital of any of our insurance subsidiaries fails to exceed the Company Action Level, we will be subject to the regulatory action described above and our results of operations could suffer. If we are required to register as an investment company, we will be subject to a significant regulatory burden and our results of operations will suffer. At all times we intend to conduct our business so as to avoid being regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. However, if we were required to register as an investment company, our ability to use debt would be substantially reduced, and we would be subject to significant additional disclosure obligations and restrictions on our operational activities. Because of the additional requirements imposed on an investment company with regard to the distribution of earnings, operational activities and the use of debt, in addition to increased expenditures due to additional reporting responsibilities, our cash available for investments would be reduced. The additional expenses would reduce income. These factors would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and the results of operations and cash flows. We are directly impacted by international affairs, which directly exposes us to the adverse effects of any foreign economic or governmental instability. As a result of global investment diversification, our business, financial condition, the results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected by: · exposure to fluctuations in exchange rates; · the imposition of governmental controls; · the need to comply with a wide variety of foreign and U.S. export laws; · political and economic instability; · trade restrictions; · changes in tariffs and taxes; · volatile interest rates; · changes in certain commodity prices; · exchange controls which may limit our ability to withdraw money; · the greater difficulty of administering business overseas; and · general economic conditions outside the United States. Changes in any or all of these factors could result in reduced market values of investments, loss of assets, additional expenses, reduced investment income, reductions in shareholders’ equity due to foreign currency fluctuations and a reduction in our global diversification. 14 Table of Contents Because our operations are diverse, analysts and investors may not be able to evaluate us adequately, which may negatively influence our share price. PICO is a diversified holding company with operations in real estate and related water rights and mineral rights; water resource development and water storage; insurance operations in run-off; and business acquisitions and financing. Each of these areas is unique, complex in nature, and difficult to understand. In particular, the water resource business is a developing industry within the western United States with very little historical data, very few experts and a limited following of analysts. Because we are complex, analysts and investors may not be able to adequately evaluate our operations and PICO in total. This could cause analysts and investors to make inaccurate evaluations of our stock, or to overlook PICO in general. As a result, the trading volume and price of our stock could suffer. Fluctuations in the market price of our common stock may affect your ability to sell your shares. The trading price of our common stock has historically been, and we expect to continue to be, subject to fluctuations. The market price of our common stock may be significantly impacted by: · quarterly variations in financial performance and condition; · shortfalls in revenue or earnings from levels forecast by securities analysts; · changes in estimates by such analysts; · product introductions; · our competitors’ announcements of extraordinary events such as acquisitions; · litigation; and · general economic conditions. Our results of operations have been subject to significant fluctuations, particularly on a quarterly basis, and our future results of operations could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. Causes of such fluctuations may include the inclusion or exclusion of operating earnings from newly acquired or sold operations. At December 31, 2006, the closing price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market was $34.77 per share, compared to $20.77 at December 31, 2004. On a quarterly basis between these two dates, closing prices have ranged from a high of $35.53 to a low of $20.93. Statements or changes in opinions, ratings, or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to the markets in which we do business or relating to us specifically could result in an immediate and adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Such fluctuations in the market price of our common stock could affect the value of your investment and your ability to sell your shares. We may not be able to retain key management personnel we need to succeed, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully operate our businesses. To run our day-to-day operations and to successfully manage newly acquired companies we must, among other things, continue to attract and retain key management. We rely on the services of several key executive officers. If they depart, it could have a significant adverse effect. Messrs. Langley and Hart, our Chairman and CEO, respectively, are key to the implementation of our strategic focus, and our ability to successfully develop our current strategy is dependent upon our ability to retain the services of Messrs. Langley and Hart. We use estimates and assumptions in preparing financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We regularly evaluate our estimates, which are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The result of these evaluations forms the basis for our judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the reported amount of revenues and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. The carrying values of assets and liabilities and the reported amount of revenues and expenses may differ by using different assumptions. In addition, in future periods, in order to incorporate all known experience at that time, we may have to revise assumptions previously made which may change the value of previously reported assets and liabilities. This potential subsequent change in value may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and the results of operations and cash flows. Repurchases of our common stock could have a negative effect on our cash flows and our stock price. Our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $10 million of our common stock. The stock purchases may be made from time to time at prevailing prices though open market, or negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions, and will be funded from available cash resources of the company. Such repurchases may have a negative impact on our cash flows, and could result in market pressure to sell our common stock. 15 Table of Contents Future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards could have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, SEC regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to maintain compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of that assessment has required the commitment of substantial financial and managerial resources. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. Further, our board members, chief executive officer, and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties and we may be required to indemnify them for any expenses incurred in defending against claims. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If our efforts to comply with new or changes laws, regulations, and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation could be harmed. Absence of dividends could reduce our attractiveness to investors. Some investors favor companies that pay dividends, particularly in market downturns. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth and, therefore, we do not currently anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock. We may need additional capital in the future to fund the growth of our business, and financing may not be available. We currently anticipate that our available capital resources and operating income will be sufficient to meet our expected working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, we cannot assure you that such resources will be sufficient to fund the long-term growth of our business. We may raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings if such financings become available on favorable terms, but such financing may dilute the interests of our stockholders. We cannot assure you that any additional financing we need will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of unanticipated opportunities or otherwise respond to competitive pressures. In any such case, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Litigation may harm our business or otherwise distract our management. Substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur large expenditures and distract our management. For example, lawsuits by employees, stockholders or customers could be very costly and substantially disrupt our business. Additionally, our subsidiaries may become involved in litigation that could necessitate our management’s attention and require us to expend our resources. We or our subsidiaries will have disputes from time to time with companies or individuals, and we cannot assure that that we will always be able to resolve such disputes out of court or on terms favorable to us. THE FOREGOING FACTORS, INDIVIDUALLY OR IN AGGREGATE, COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND CASH FLOWS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION AND COULD MAKE COMPARISON OF HISTORIC OPERATING RESULTS AND CASH FLOWS AND BALANCES DIFFICULT OR NOT MEANINGFUL. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 