ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company’s business. The Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Please note that additional risks not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial may also impair its business and operations. The steel industry is cyclical, and has experienced periods of weak demand for products, excess capacity and low prices. If those conditions return the Company could be required to reduce prices for its products and profitability could be adversely impacted. Downturns in the industry have caused steel companies to file for bankruptcy, including some that are substantially larger than the Company. High fixed costs motivate steel producers to maintain high output levels even in the face of falling prices, thereby increasing further downward pressures on selling prices. Increased demand for steel products in Asia, a weak United States dollar, high ocean freight cost, improving conditions in the manufacturing economy, and reduced United States steel production capacity have significantly reduced worldwide oversupply and excess capacity. As a result, the Company, and the domestic steel industry in general, have recently seen significant increases in the selling prices of steel products which peaked in the fourth quarter of 2004. However, if the domestic steel industry again experiences reduced demand, overcapacity and reduced selling prices for steel products, the Company’s ability to realize its target profit margins will be impaired and its results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Increased levels of imports could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. Foreign competition historically has adversely affected product prices in the United States and the tonnage sold by domestic steel producers. Fluctuations in the value of the United States dollar against several other currencies substantially affect the intensity of foreign competition. Foreign governments control or subsidize many foreign steel producers. Decisions by these producers concerning production and exports may be influenced, in part, by political and social policy considerations as well as by prevailing market conditions and profit opportunities. Economic and currency dislocations in foreign markets may encourage importers to target the United States with excess capacity at aggressive prices. Moreover, existing trade laws and regulations may be inadequate to prevent unfair trade practices concerning these imports that could pose increasing problems for the Company and the rest of the domestic steel industry. Any such competition may have an adverse effect on the Company’s production, sales, operating margins, and profitability. The inputs used in production are subject to price fluctuations that could increase the costs of production and adversely affect the Company’s profitability. The purchase prices for scrap and alternate metallics used at the Company’s RMSM Division are affected by cyclical, seasonal, and other market factors. Prices also fluctuate on the basis of factors affecting supply, such as demand from domestic and foreign steel producers, periodic shortages, freight costs, speculation by brokers, export markets, and other conditions. Most of these factors are beyond the Company’s control. The cost of scrap and alternate metallics can vary significantly, and finished product prices often cannot be adjusted, especially in the short-term, to recover those increased costs. In addition to scrap and alternate metallics, the Company purchases steel slabs on the open market for its Portland Mill. Purchased slabs are expected to represent 100% of the production needs for plate and coiled plate in the foreseeable future. Even though the Company has established procurement relationships with certain vendors, it does not have any long-term steel slab supply agreements. The steel slab market and pricing are subject to significant volatility, and steel slabs may not be available at reasonable prices in the future or at the times and in the quantities needed to satisfy the Company’s customers. In addition, any significant increases in the price of steel slabs that cannot be passed along through higher priced finished products to the Company’s customers could have a materially adverse affect on the Company’s gross margins and operating results. In addition, an increase in specific utility rates, such as natural gas or electricity, or other service costs could have an adverse effect on the Company’s margins if those costs cannot be passed along to the Company’s customers. 9 Supply limitations or delays, including those resulting from trade tariffs or quotas or port closures, would constrain the Company’s production and could materially and adversely affect its sales and profitability. The Company purchases steel slabs from a number of foreign producers. Any interruption or reduction in the supply of steel slabs may make it difficult or impossible to satisfy customers’ delivery requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Steel slabs are purchased from a number of foreign producers. Most of the steel slabs purchased are delivered by ship. Any disruption to port operations, including those caused by a labor dispute or terrorism, could materially impact the supply or the cost of steel slabs, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s production, sales levels, and profitability. In addition, the imposition of tariffs pursuant to trade laws and regulations can have an adverse impact on the Company’s business by placing tariffs and tariff-rate quotas on the import of steel slabs and raising the prices of steel slabs used in production. Future impositions of tariffs or quotas could limit access to steel slabs at reasonable cost, or at all, and could consequently have a material adverse effect on the Company’s production, sales levels, operating margins, and profitability. The Company services cyclical industries and generally does not have long-term contracts with its customers, and therefore any downturn in these industries could reduce revenue and profitability. The Company sells products within cyclical industries, such as the rail transportation, construction, capital equipment, oil and gas, and durable goods segments. The demand for these products can change as a result of economic conditions, energy prices or other factors beyond the Company’s control. As a result of the volatile industries, the Company may have difficulty increasing or maintaining sales and profitability if it is not able to divert product to customers in other industries during these periods of decline. The Company does not have significant ongoing contracts with customers, and orders taken are generally cancelable by the customer prior to production. The Company’s substantial amount of debt could materially and adversely affect its financial health in a number of ways, including limiting its ability to obtain additional financing and reducing its ability to use cash flow for purposes other than debt payments, and prevent the Company from fulfilling its obligations under the outstanding debt. The Company’s debt is secured by the Company’s assets including the assets of its subsidiaries. The Company’s debt could have the following adverse consequences: • make it more difficult to satisfy the obligations for the outstanding debt; • increase vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in business; • limit the ability to obtain additional financing; • require a substantial portion of cash flows from operations to be used for debt payments rather than to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes; • limit the Company’s ability to plan for, or react to, changes in its business and industry; and • place the Company at a disadvantage with competitors with less debt or greater resources. If the Company is unable to satisfy its debt obligations, it could result in all of the debt becoming immediately due and payable and could permit the lenders to foreclose on the assets securing the debt. The Company may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service its debt which could prevent the Company from fulfilling its obligations under its outstanding debt. The Company may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service its debt, to repay its debt when due or to meet unanticipated capital needs. The Company plans to service interest payments on its debt with cash from operations. The Company’s cash from operations, however, may not be sufficient to repay the principal amount on the outstanding debt when it becomes due. The Company’s ability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy its obligations will depend on its future performance, which is subject to many economic, political, competitive, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond the Company’s control. In addition, the Company faces potential costs and liabilities associated with environmental compliance and remediation issues. If cash from operations is not sufficient to satisfy the Company’s obligations, it may need to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets, refinance the debt, sell selected assets or reduce or delay planned activities and capital expenditures. Any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms, if at all. If the Company cannot meet its debt service requirements an event of default would occur under the debt instruments. This could result in all of the Company’s debt becoming immediately due and payable and could permit the Company’s lenders to foreclose on its assets, or the assets of its subsidiaries securing the debt. The Company’s pension plans are currently underfunded and are at risk of becoming more underfunded due to changes in interest rates or due to the performance of pension plan assets that are invested in capital markets. 10 All of the Company’s pension plans are currently underfunded, and under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, the Company is required to record a liability to reflect the total underfunded accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) on its balance sheets. The amount of underfunded ABO is dependent on changes in interest rates, investment performance (as compared to the long-term expected rate of return on plan assets, which is dependent on the investment strategy) and the level of Company contributions. Changes in any of these factors could cause a dramatic change in the amount of liability, as well as the total pension expense recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Factors that can affect the amount of cash funding requirements include future asset performance, the level of interest rates used to measure minimum funding levels, union negotiated changes and future government regulation. Minimum funding requirements could have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s cash flows. The Company faces significant competition in its principal markets, and increased competition could reduce gross margins and net income. The principal markets served are highly competitive. Steel manufacturers compete primarily on the basis of product quality, price, and responsiveness to customer needs. Many of the Company’s competitors are larger and have substantial capital resources. Consolidation within the industry has increased the size of some of the competitors. Increased competition, especially combined with excess production capacity in some products, could force the Company to lower its prices, reducing gross margins and net income. Unplanned repairs, equipment outages, and delays in capital expansion projects could interrupt production and reduce income or cash flow. The Company’s operations depend upon critical pieces of equipment that are occasionally out of service for routine scheduled maintenance, equipment failures, or due to unforeseen delays in capital expansion. Any unplanned unavailability of critical equipment or delays in capital expansion projects would interrupt the Company’s production capabilities and reduce sales and profitability. Although failures in significant equipment are uncommon, there could be material shutdowns in the future. The resolution of pending environmental actions and the costs of compliance with environmental orders and regulations may materially and adversely affect the Company’s competitiveness and profitability. The Company is subject to extensive foreign, federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, wastewater, stormwater, air emissions, toxic use reduction and hazardous materials storage, handling, and disposal. Like other similar steel mills in the industry, the Pueblo Mill generates hazardous waste from the melting operation of its electric arc furnace, primarily dust containing heavy metals. Environmental standards are becoming increasingly stringent, including those relating to air emissions, waste water and stormwater discharge and hazardous materials use, storage, handling, and disposal, and the Company will likely be required to make additional expenditures, which could be significant, relating to environmental matters on an ongoing basis. Although reserves for environmental remediation have been established, the cost of remedial measures that might eventually be required by environmental authorities may exceed those reserves. Furthermore, additional environmental claims which are in excess of the current reserves or not reserved for at all, might be asserted by environmental authorities or private parties. The Company’s insurance policies surrounding the Portland Mill’s environmental matters may not provide sufficient coverage for all remediation costs which are currently not known as they continue to be dependent on several ongoing investigations. The Company may also be subject to legal proceedings brought by private parties or governmental agencies with respect to environmental matters, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. See Note 16 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements, “Contingencies,” for a description of the current environmental matters. A portion of the Company’s workforce is unionized; any labor disruptions, work stoppages or significant negotiated wage increases could reduce sales or increase costs, and accordingly could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s unionized employees consist primarily of hourly production workers. Most of the employees at the Pueblo Mill and the Camrose Pipe Mill belong to unions, and those mills negotiate collective bargaining agreements with these unions. Any failure to reach agreement on new labor agreements when required might result in a work stoppage that could, depending upon the operations affected and the length of the work stoppage, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations. In addition, a contract may be renegotiated with significant increases in wages or other adverse economic terms, which would increase costs and reduce profitability. The Company and the CAW are currently negotiating the terms of a new bargaining agreement for the Camrose Pipe Mill employees. There has not been a work stoppage related to the expired agreement. See “Item 1. Business – Employees,” for further discussion of existing labor contracts. As part of the 2004 settlement with the Union, the Company does not get involved, directly or indirectly, in any matter that involves the unionization of employees at the Portland Mill or CST. The Company offers stock compensation to certain employees and non-employee directors which can vary based on the Company’s operating performance, as well as market related factors which are outside the Company’s control. In addition, a portion of the expense associated with the awards varies based on the price of the Company’s common stock, which may fluctuate substantially. 11 Part of the compensation offered to certain executives, key employees, and non-employee directors is share-based in its nature. The Company has granted, and in the future expects to continue to grant, performance based awards under its 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The performance awards are based on the Company’s performance against (1) the total shareholder return as compared to a pre-determined peer group, and (2) the three-year average earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization per ton shipped. One half of the total performance awards are earned based on each category, and awards are paid 60% in cash and 40% in the Company’s common stock. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles dictate that the accounting for these awards is based on fair value principles beginning on January 1, 2006. The Company may be subject to variable levels of expense related primarily to the cash settled portion of the awards based on varying levels of performance, as well as for fluctuations in the Company’s stock price as a portion of these awards are “marked to market” periodically over the three-year service period. The market price of the Company’s common stock is likely to be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to many factors including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in the results of operations; • variances in financial performance from the expected market analysis; • conditions and trends in the end markets served and changes in the estimation of the size and growth rate of these markets; • announcements of significant contracts by the Company or its competitors; • loss of one or more significant customers; • legislation; • changes in market valuation or earnings of competitors; • trading volume of the Company’s common stock; and • general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and the New York Stock Exchange and the market for steel companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies affected. These broad market and industry factors may materially impact the market price of the Company’s common stock, regardless of the Company’s operating performance. Senior management may be difficult to replace if they leave. The Company’s operations and prospects depend in large part on the performance of the Company’s senior management team, including its chief executive officer and president, chief financial officer and the other members of the senior management team. The loss of the services of one or more of these members or the inability to attract, retain and maintain additional or replacement senior management personnel could harm the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. The Company does not have key man insurance on any of its executives. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 