ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our objectives, expectations and intentions. The cautionary statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be read as applicable to all forward-looking statements wherever they appear in this report. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed herein. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. As of February 15, 2012, we had available cash of approximately $430,000. We require additional capital to fund our operations and cannot ensure that additional capital will be available on acceptable terms or at all. We have experienced negative cash flows from operations from our pressure cycling technology business since we commenced our pressure cycling technology operations. As of February 15, 2012, we had available cash of approximately $430,000 which, based on current projections, will be sufficient to fund operations until April 2012. We need substantial additional capital to fund our operations beyond April 2012. We have received an opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm expressing doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. The audit report issued by our independent registered public accounting firm on our audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 contains an explanatory paragraph regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. The audit report states that our auditing firm has substantial doubt in our ability to continue as a going concern due to the risk that we may not have sufficient cash and liquid assets at December 31, 2011 to cover our operating and capital requirements for the next twelve-month period; and if sufficient cash cannot be obtained, we would have to substantially alter, or possibly even discontinue, operations. The accompanying consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Management has developed a plan to continue operations. This plan includes further reductions in expenses and obtaining equity or debt financing including our most recently completed financing in February 2012, in which we sold units consisting of shares of restricted common stock and warrants to purchase shares of common stock for net proceeds of approximately $765,000, which included the conversion of $387,547 in principal and accrued interest from convertible promissory notes. Although we have successfully completed equity financings and reduced expenses in the past, we cannot assure you that our plans to address these matters in the future will be successful. Such an opinion from our independent registered accounting firm could adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all, as such an opinion may cause investors to have reservations about our long-term prospects, and may adversely affect our relationships with customers. There can be no assurance that our auditing firm will not qualify its opinion in the future. If we cannot successfully continue as a going concern, our stockholders may lose their entire investment in us. We will need a greater amount of additional capital than we currently expect to need if we experience unforeseen costs or expenses, unanticipated liabilities or delays in implementing our business plan, developing our products and achieving commercial sales. We need substantial capital to implement our sales distribution strategy for our current products and to develop and commercialize future products using our pressure cycling technology products and services in the sample preparation area, as well as for applications in other areas of life sciences. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including but not limited to: · the problems, delays, expenses, and complications frequently encountered by early-stage companies; · market acceptance of our pressure cycling technology products and services for sample preparation; · the success of our sales and marketing programs; and · changes in economic, regulatory or competitive conditions in the markets we intend to serve. -15- To satisfy our potential capital requirements to cover the cost of implementing our sales distribution strategy for our current products and services and to develop and commercialize future products and services using our pressure cycling technology relating to sample preparation and other life science applications, we need to raise additional funds in the public or private capital markets. We may seek to raise any necessary additional funds through the issuance of warrants, equity or debt financings or executing collaborative arrangements with corporate partners or other sources, which may be dilutive to existing stockholders or otherwise have a material effect on our current or future business prospects. Additional financing may not be available to us on a timely basis, if at all, or on terms acceptable to us. If adequate funds are not available or if we fail to obtain acceptable additional financing, we may be required to: · severely limit or cease our operations or otherwise reduce planned expenditures and forego other business opportunities, which could harm our business; · obtain financing with terms that may have the effect of substantially diluting or adversely affecting the holdings or the rights of the holders of our capital stock; or · obtain funds through arrangements with future collaboration partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to some or all of our technologies or products. Our actual results and performance, including our ability to raise additional capital, may be adversely affected by current economic conditions. Our actual results and performance could be adversely affected by the current economic conditions in the global economy, which continue to pose a risk to the overall demand for our products from our customers who may elect to defer or cancel purchases of, or decide not to purchase, our products in response to continuing tightness in the credit markets, negative financial news and general uncertainty in the economy. In addition, our ability to obtain additional financing, on acceptable terms, if at all, may be adversely affected by the uncertainty in the current economic climate. We have a history of operating losses, anticipate future losses and may never be profitable. We have experienced significant operating losses in the area of PCT in each period since we began investing resources in PCT. These losses have resulted principally from research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses associated with the development of our PCT business. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded a net loss applicable to common shareholders of ($5,107,661) or ($0.77) per share, as compared to ($3,630,826) or ($1.35) per share in 2010. We expect to continue to incur operating losses until sales of our PCT products increase substantially. We cannot be certain when, if ever, we will become profitable. Even if we were to become profitable, we might not be able to sustain such profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our financial results depend on revenues from our pressure cycling technology products and services, and from government grants. We currently rely on revenues from our pressure cycling technology products and services in the sample preparation area and from revenues derived from grants awarded to us by governmental agencies, such as the National Institutes of Health. We have been unable to achieve market acceptance of our product offerings to the extent necessary to achieve significant revenue. Competition for government grants is very intense, and we can provide no assurance that we will continue to be awarded grants in the future. If we are unable to increase revenues from sales of our pressure cycling technology products and services and government grants, our business will fail. We may be unable to obtain market acceptance of our pressure cycling technology products and services. Many of our initial sales of our pressure cycling technology products and services have been to our collaborators, following their use of our products in studies undertaken in sample preparation for genomics, proteomics and small molecules studies. Our technology requires scientists and researchers to adopt a method of sample extraction that is different than existing techniques. Our PCT sample preparation system is also more costly than existing techniques. -16- Our ability to obtain market acceptance will depend, in part, on our ability to demonstrate to our potential customers that the benefits and advantages of our technology outweigh the increased cost of our technology compared to existing methods of sample extraction. If we are unable to demonstrate the benefits and advantages of our products and technology as compared to existing technologies, we will not gain market acceptance and our business will fail. Our business may be harmed if we encounter problems, delays, expenses, and complications that often affect companies that have not achieved significant market acceptance. Our pressure cycling technology business continues to face challenges in achieving market acceptance. If we encounter problems, delays, expenses and complications, many of which may be beyond our control or may harm our business or prospects. These include: · unanticipated problems and costs relating to the development, testing, production, marketing, and sale of our products; · delays and costs associated with our ability to attract and retain key personnel; · availability of adequate financing; and · competition. The sales cycle of our pressure cycling technology products is lengthy. We have incurred and may continue to incur significant expenses and we may not generate any significant revenue related to those products. Many of our current and potential customers have required between three and six months or more to test and evaluate our pressure cycling technology products. This increases the possibility that a customer may decide to cancel its order or otherwise change its plans, which could reduce or eliminate our sales to that potential customer. As a result of this lengthy sales cycle, we have incurred and may continue to incur significant research and development, selling and marketing, and general and administrative expense related to customers from whom we have not yet generated any revenue from our products, and from whom we may never generate the anticipated revenue if a customer is not satisfied with the results of the evaluation of our products or if a customer cancels or changes its plans. Our business could be harmed if our products contain undetected errors or defects. We are continuously developing new, and improving our existing, pressure cycling technology products in sample preparation and we expect to do so in other areas of life sciences depending upon the availability of our resources. Newly introduced products can contain undetected errors or defects. In addition, these products may not meet their performance specifications under all conditions or for all applications. If, despite internal testing and testing by our collaborators, any of our products contain errors or defects or fail to meet customer specifications, then we may be required to enhance or improve those products or technologies. We may not be able to do so on a timely basis, if at all, and may only be able to do so at considerable expense. In addition, any significant reliability problems could result in adverse customer reaction, negative publicity or legal claims and could harm our business and prospects. Our success may depend on our ability to manage growth effectively. Our failure to manage growth effectively could harm our business and prospects. Given our limited resources and personnel, growth of our business could place significant strain on our management, information technology systems, sources of manufacturing capacity and other resources. To properly manage our growth, we may need to hire additional employees and identify new sources of manufacturing capabilities. Failure to effectively manage our growth could make it difficult to manufacture our products and fill orders, as well as lead to declines in product quality or increased costs, any of which would adversely impact our business and results of operations. Our success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our senior management. Our success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our senior management. We do not have long-term employment agreements with our key employees. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could make it more difficult to successfully operate our business and achieve our business goals. In addition, our failure to retain existing engineering, research and development and sales personnel could harm our product development capabilities and customer and employee relationships, delay the growth of sales of our products and could result in the loss of key information, expertise or know-how. -17- We may not be able to hire or retain the number of qualified personnel, particularly engineering and sales personnel, required for our business, which would harm the development and sales of our products and limit our ability to grow. Competition in our industry for senior management, technical, sales, marketing, finance and other key personnel is intense. If we are unable to retain our existing personnel, or attract and train additional qualified personnel, either because of competition in our industry for such personnel or because of insufficient financial resources, our growth may be limited. Our success also depends in particular on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain qualified engineering and sales personnel with experience in design, development and sales of laboratory equipment. Our reliance on a single third party for all of our manufacturing, and certain of our engineering, and other related services could harm our business. We currently rely on Source Scientific, LLC (“Source Scientific”), a third party contract manufacturer, to manufacture our PCT instrumentation, provide engineering expertise, and manage the majority of our sub-contractor supplier relationships. Because of our dependence on one manufacturer, our success will depend, in part, on the ability of Source Scientific to manufacture our products cost effectively, in sufficient quantities to meet our customer demand, if and when such demand occurs, and meeting our quality requirements. If Source Scientific experiences manufacturing problems or delays, or if Source Scientific decides not to continue to provide us with these services, our business may be harmed. While we believe other contract manufacturers are available to address our manufacturing and engineering needs, if we find it necessary to replace Source Scientific, there will be a disruption in our business and we would incur additional costs and delays that would harm our business. Our failure to manage current or future alliances or joint ventures effectively may harm our business. We have entered into business relationships with three distribution partners and one co-marketing partner, and we may enter into additional alliances, joint ventures or other business relationships to further develop, market and sell our pressure cycling technology product line. We may not be able to: · identify appropriate candidates for alliances, joint ventures or other business relationships; · assure that any candidate for an alliance, joint venture or business relationship will provide us with the support anticipated; · successfully negotiate an alliance, joint venture or business relationship on terms that are advantageous to us; or · successfully manage any alliance or joint venture. Furthermore, any alliance, joint venture or other business relationship may divert management time and resources. Entering into a disadvantageous alliance, joint venture or business relationship, failing to manage an alliance, joint venture or business relationship effectively, or failing to comply with any obligations in connection therewith, could harm our business and prospects. We may not be successful in growing our international sales. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully develop our international sales channels to enable us to generate significant revenue from international sales. We currently have three international distribution agreements that cover Japan, Austria, and Germany. We have generated limited sales to date from international sales and cannot guarantee that we will be able to increase our sales. As we expand, our international operations may be subject to numerous risks and challenges, including: · multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including those that regulate high pressure equipment; · reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; · protectionist laws and business practices that favor local companies; · political and economic changes and disruptions; · export and import controls; · tariff regulations; and · currency fluctuations. -18- Our operating results are subject to quarterly variation. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period depending on a variety of factors, including the following: · our ability to increase our sales of our pressure cycling technology products for sample preparation on a consistent quarterly or annual basis; · the lengthy sales cycle for our products; · the product mix of the Barocycler instruments we install in a given period, and whether the installations are completed pursuant to sales, rental or lease arrangements, and the average selling prices that we are able to command for our products; · our ability to manage our costs and expenses; · our ability to continue our research and development activities without unexpected costs and expenses; and · our ability to comply with state and federal regulations without incurring unexpected costs and expenses. Our instrumentation operates at high pressures and may therefore become subject to certain regulation in the European Community. Regulation of high pressure equipment may limit or hinder our development and sale of future instrumentation. Our Barocycler instruments operate at high pressures. If our Barocycler instruments exceed certain pressure levels, our products may become subject to the European Pressure Equipment Directive, which requires certain pressure equipment meet certain quality and safety standards. We do not believe that we are subject to this directive because our Barocycler instruments are currently below the threshold documented in the text of the directive. If our interpretation were to be challenged, we could incur significant costs defending the challenge, and we could face production and selling delays, all of which could harm our business. We expect that we will be subject to regulation in the United States, such as the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), and overseas, if and when we begin to invest more resources in the development and commercialization of PCT in applications outside of sample preparation. Our current pressure cycling technology products in the area of sample preparation are not regulated by the FDA. Applications in which we intend to develop and commercialize pressure cycling technology, such as protein purification, pathogen inactivation and immunodiagnostics, are expected to require regulatory approvals or clearances from regulatory agencies, such as the FDA, prior to commercialization. We expect that obtaining these approvals or clearances will require a significant investment of time and capital resources and there can be no assurance that such investments will receive approvals or clearances that would allow us to commercialize the technology for these applications. If we are unable to protect our patents and other proprietary technology relating to our pressure cycling technology products, our business will be harmed. Our ability to further develop and successfully commercialize our products will depend, in part, on our ability to enforce our patents, preserve our trade secrets, and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We currently have 14 United States patents issued and several pending patent applications for our pressure cycling technology. Several of these have been followed up with foreign applications, for which three patents have been issued in Europe and three patents have been issued in Australia, two in Japan, and two in Canada. We expect to file additional foreign applications in the future relating to our pressure cycling technology, and we will file additional United States applications as we develop new patentable intellectual property. The patents which have been issued expire between 2015 and 2027. There can be no assurance that: · any patent applications filed by us will result in issued patents; · patent protection will be secured for any particular technology; · any patents that have been or may be issued to us will be valid or enforceable; · any patents will provide meaningful protection to us; · others will not be able to design around our patents; or -19- · our patents will provide a competitive advantage or have commercial value. The failure to obtain adequate patent protection would have a material adverse effect on us and may adversely affect our ability to enter into, or affect the terms of, any arrangement for the marketing or sale of any product. Our patents may be challenged by others. We could incur substantial costs in patent proceedings, including interference proceedings before the United States Patent and Trademark Office, and comparable proceedings before similar agencies in other countries, in connection with any claims that may arise in the future. These proceedings could result in adverse decisions about the patentability of our inventions and products, as well as about the enforceability, validity, or scope of protection afforded by the patents. If we are unable to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge, others may develop technology and products that could prevent the successful commercialization of our products. We rely on trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information in our product development activities. To the extent we rely on trade secrets and unpatented know-how to maintain our competitive technological position, there can be no assurance that others may not independently develop the same or similar technologies. We seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge, in part, through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors and contractors. These agreements may not be sufficient to effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information and may not provide us with an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of such information. If our employees, consultants, advisors, or contractors develop inventions or processes independently that may be applicable to our products, disputes may arise about ownership of proprietary rights to those inventions and processes. Such inventions and processes will not necessarily become our property, but may remain the property of those persons or their employers. Protracted and costly litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection, for any reason, could harm our business. If we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, our business will be harmed. It is possible that the manufacture, use or sale of our pressure cycling technology products or services may infringe patent or other intellectual property rights of others. We may be unable to avoid infringement of the patent or other intellectual property rights of others and may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action, or challenge the validity of the patents or other intellectual property rights in court. We may be unable to secure a license on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all. Also, we may not prevail in any patent or other intellectual property rights litigation. Patent or other intellectual property rights litigation is costly and time-consuming, and there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to bring any possible litigation related to such infringement to a successful conclusion. If we do not obtain a license under such patents or other intellectual property rights, or if we are found liable for infringement, or if we are unsuccessful in having such patents declared invalid, we may be liable for significant monetary damages, may encounter significant delays in successfully commercializing and developing our pressure cycling technology products, or may be precluded from participating in the manufacture, use, or sale of our pressure cycling technology products or services requiring such licenses. We may be unable to adequately respond to rapid changes in technology and the development of new industry standards. The introduction of products and services embodying new technology and the emergence of new industry standards may render our existing pressure cycling technology products and related services obsolete and unmarketable if we are unable to adapt to change. We may be unable to allocate the funds necessary to improve our current products or introduce new products to address our customers’ needs and respond to technological change. In the event that other companies develop more technologically advanced products, our competitive position relative to such companies would be harmed. We may not be able to compete successfully with others that are developing or have developed competitive technologies and products. -20- A number of companies have developed, or are expected to develop, products that compete or will compete with our products. We compete with companies that have existing technologies for the extraction of nucleic acids, proteins and small molecules from cells and tissues, including methods such as mortar and pestle, sonication, rotor-stator homogenization, French press, bead beating, freezer milling, enzymatic digestion, and chemical dissolution. We are aware that there are additional companies pursuing new technologies with similar goals to the products developed or being developed by us. Some of the companies with which we now compete, or may compete in the future, have or may have more extensive research, marketing, and manufacturing capabilities, more experience in genomics and proteomics sample preparation, protein purification, pathogen inactivation, immunodiagnostics, and DNA sequencing and significantly greater technical, personnel and financial resources than we do, and may be better positioned to continue to improve their technology to compete in an evolving industry. To compete, we must be able to demonstrate to potential customers that our products provide improved performance and capabilities. Our failure to compete successfully could harm our business and prospects. Provisions in our articles of organization and bylaws and our shareholder rights agreement may discourage or frustrate shareholders’ attempts to remove or replace our current management. Our articles of organization and bylaws contain provisions that may make it more difficult or discourage changes in our management that our stockholders may consider to be favorable. These provisions include: · a classified board of directors; · advance notice for stockholder nominations to the board of directors; · limitations on the ability of stockholders to remove directors; and · a provision that allows a majority of the directors to fill vacancies on the board of directors. Our shareholders rights agreement, or “poison pill”, may also have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change in control. These provisions could prevent or frustrate attempts to make changes in our management that our stockholders consider to be beneficial and could limit the price that our stockholders might receive in the future for shares of our common stock. The costs of compliance with the reporting obligations of the Exchange Act, and with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, may place a strain on our limited resources and our management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns. As a result of the regulatory requirements applicable to public companies, we incur legal, accounting, and other expenses that are significant in relation to the size of our company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ, have required changes in corporate governance and financial disclosure practices of public companies, some of which are currently applicable to us and others will or may become applicable to us in the future. These rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and may make some activities more time-consuming. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and on our management and financial resources. Certain of our net deferred tax assets could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. Certain of our net operating losses (“NOLs”) give rise to net deferred tax assets. Our ability to utilize NOLs and to offset our future taxable income and/or to recover previously paid taxes would be limited if we were to undergo an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, which we refer to as the Code. In general, an “ownership change” occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned by “5-percent shareholders” (within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned by such “5-percent shareholders” at any time over the preceding three years. An ownership change under Section 382 of the Code would establish an annual limitation on the amount of NOLs we could utilize to offset our taxable income in any single taxable year to an amount equal to (i) the product of a -21- specified rate, which is published by the U.S. Treasury, and the aggregate value of our outstanding stock plus (ii) the amount of unutilized limitation from prior years. The application of these limitations might prevent full utilization of the deferred tax assets attributable to our NOLs. We may have or will have experienced an ownership change as defined by Section 382 through the sale of equity and, therefore, we will consider whether the sale of equity units will result in limitations of our net operating losses under Section 382 when we start to generate taxable income. However, whether a change in ownership occurs in the future is largely outside of our control, and there can be no assurance that such a change will not occur. Risks Related to Share Ownership The holders of our common stock could suffer substantial dilution. In connection with the private placements and registered direct offering we completed during the past few years, we have issued shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, Series C Convertible Preferred Stock, and Series D Convertible Preferred Stock. In connection with those private placements and registered direct offering, we also issued warrants to purchase shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, warrants to purchase shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, and warrants to purchase shares of common stock. Each share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock was, and each share of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock is, convertible into 10 shares of common stock. Each share of Series D Convertible Preferred Stock is convertible into 1,538.46 shares of common stock. As of January 31, 2012, there were no shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock or Series B Convertible Preferred Stock issued and outstanding. If all of the outstanding shares of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock and Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, together with our outstanding warrants issued in connection with our private placements and registered direct offering, were converted or exercised into shares of our common stock, an additional 6,344,886 shares of common stock would be issued and outstanding. The additional issuance of common stock would cause immediate and substantial dilution to our existing stockholders, and could cause a significant reduction in the market price of our common stock. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception of such possible sales, could depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities in the public markets, including in an offering of our common stock or preferred stock, could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity or equity-related securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock. Our share price could be volatile and our trading volume may fluctuate substantially. The price of our shares of common stock has been and may in the future continue to be extremely volatile, with the sale price fluctuating from a low of $0.51 to a high of $2.29 since December 31, 2009. Many factors could have a significant impact on the future price of our shares of common stock, including: · our inability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, whether through the issuance of equity securities or debt; · our failure to successfully implement our business objectives; · compliance with ongoing regulatory requirements; · market acceptance of our products; · technological innovations and new commercial products by our competitors; · changes in government regulations; · general economic conditions and other external factors; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results; · the degree of trading liquidity in our shares of common stock; and · our ability to meet the minimum standards required for remaining listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. A decline in the price of our shares of common stock could affect our ability to raise further working capital and adversely impact our ability to continue operations. -22- A decline in the price of our shares of common stock could result in a reduction in the liquidity of our common stock and a reduction in our ability to raise capital. Because a significant portion of our operations has been and will continue to be financed through the sale of equity securities, a decline in the price of our shares of common stock could be especially detrimental to our liquidity and our operations. Such reductions and declines may force us to reallocate funds from other planned uses and may have a significant negative effect on our business plans and operations, including our ability to continue our current operations. If the price for our shares of common stock declines, it may be more difficult to raise additional capital. If we are unable to raise sufficient capital, and we are unable to generate funds from operations sufficient to meet our obligations, we will not have the resources to continue our operations. The market price for our shares of common stock may also be affected by our ability to meet or exceed expectations of analysts or investors. Any failure to meet these expectations, even if minor, may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our shares of common stock. If we issue additional securities in the future, it will likely result in the dilution of our shares of existing stockholders. Our restated articles of organization, as amended, currently authorize the issuance of up to 20,000,000 shares of common stock and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of January 31, 2012, we had 6,925,531 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, 88,098 shares of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock issued and outstanding, which shares of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock are convertible into 880,980 shares of common stock and 677 shares of Series D Convertible Preferred Stock issued and outstanding, which shares of Series D Convertible Preferred Stock are convertible into 1,041,539 shares of common stock. As of January 31, 2012, we had options and warrants to purchase an aggregate of approximately 6,270,951 shares of our common stock outstanding, and had an additional 394,500 shares of common stock reserved for future awards that we may grant under our equity compensation plan. In December 2011, our stockholders approved an amendment to our restated articles of organization, as amended, to increase the number of our authorized shares of common stock from 20,000,000 to 50,000,000. We plan to file articles of amendment to increase our authorized common stock prior to completing any offering requiring additional authorized shares of common stock. From time to time we also may increase the number of shares available for issuance in connection with our equity compensation plan, we may adopt new equity compensation plans, and we may issue awards to our employees and others who provide services to us outside the terms of our equity compensation plans. Our board of directors may fix and determine the designations, rights, preferences or other variations of each class or series of preferred stock and may choose to issue some or all of such shares to provide additional financing in the future. The issuance of any securities for acquisition, licensing or financing efforts, upon conversion of any preferred stock or exercise of warrants, pursuant to our equity compensation plans, or otherwise may result in a reduction of the book value and market price of the outstanding shares of our common stock. If we issue any such additional securities, such issuance will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all current stockholders. Further, such issuance may result in a change in control of our Company. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) sales practice requirements may also limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our common stock. FINRA has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low-priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low-priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our common stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid a cash dividend on our common stock and we do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. -23- Our shares of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock and Series D Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to certain rights, privileges and preferences over our common stock, including the right to receive dividends, in the case of the Series C Convertible Preferred Stock, and a preference upon a liquidation of our company, which will reduce amounts available for distribution to our common stockholders. The holders of our shares of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to receive a cumulative dividend at the rate of 5% per annum of the purchase price paid for the Series C Convertible Preferred Stock, payable, either in cash or in shares of common stock at our option, semi-annually within 45 days of each of June 30th and December 31st, which commenced on June 30, 2011. If we elect to pay the dividends in cash, we will have less cash available for operations, and less cash available to the holders of common stock upon a liquidation of our company. A payment of dividends in common stock will have a dilutive effect on our common stockholders. Further, the shares of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock and Series D Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to payment prior to payment to the holders of common stock in the event of liquidation of the Company. Our common stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock, liquidity for our stockholders and our ability to access the capital markets. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market. We previously received letters from the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, or NASDAQ, on April 13, 2011, advising us that our stockholders’ equity for the year ended December 31, 2010 had fallen below the minimum requirement for continued inclusion on The NASDAQ Capital Market and on August 15, 2011, advising us that, for the previous 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion on The NASDAQ Capital Market. On October 4, 2011, we received written notification from the Listing Qualifications Department of the NASDAQ, or NASDAQ, stating that our common stock is subject to delisting from The NASDAQ Capital Market, pending our opportunity to request a hearing before a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel (the “Panel”). We attended a hearing before the Panel on November 17, 2011 to consider further our plan to bring the Company into compliance with the stockholders’ equity listing standard and the minimum $1.00 per share requirement. On December 7, 2011, we received notice that the Panel granted our request for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market subject to, among other things, our demonstration of compliance with the applicable minimum stockholders’ equity requirement of $2.5 million by February 29, 2012. On February 15, 2012, we received notice from NASDAQ that the bid price of our common stock had not regained compliance with the minimum $1.00 per share requirement as of February 13, 2012, 180 calendar days after NASDAQ’s August 15, 2011 notice. We have submitted a revised plan of compliance for the Panel’s review and have requested a further extension of time. While we are diligently working to regain compliance with all applicable NASDAQ listing criteria, including the minimum stockholders’ equity and minimum bid price of $1.00 per share, there can be no assurance that the Panel will grant our request for a further extension of time for continued listing or that we will be able to successfully complete our plan to achieve compliance. If we fail to comply with the listing standards applicable to issuers listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market by the deadline set forth above or any extension of such deadline, our common stock will be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining our NASDAQ listing, then we may pursue listing and trading of our shares of common stock on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board or another securities exchange or association with different listing standards than NASDAQ. We anticipate the change in listings may result in a reduction in some or all of the following, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our shareholders: · the liquidity of our shares of common stock; · the market price of our shares of common stock; · our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations; · the number of institutional and other investors that will consider investing in our shares of common stock; · the number of market markers in our shares of common stock; · the availability of information concerning the trading prices and volume of our shares of common stock; and · the number of broker-dealers willing to execute trades in our shares of common stock. -24- Furthermore, if our shares of common stock were removed from listing with The NASDAQ Capital Market and we are unsuccessful in listing our shares of common stock on another national securities exchange, the shares may be subject to the so-called “penny stock” rules. The SEC has adopted regulations that define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price per share of less than $5.00, subject to certain exceptions, such as any securities listed on a national securities exchange. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers, subject to certain exceptions. If our shares of common stock were delisted and determined to be a penny stock, a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our shares of common stock and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our shares of common stock on the secondary market. Investors in penny stocks should be prepared for the possibility that they may lose their whole investment. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable. 