ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our objectives, expectations and intentions. The cautionary statements made in this report should be read as applicable to all forward-looking statements wherever they appear in this report. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed herein. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. We will require additional capital to further develop our pressure cycling technology products and services and cannot ensure that additional capital will be available on acceptable terms or at all. We have experienced negative cash flows from operations from our pressure cycling technology business since its inception. As of December 31, 2007, we had available cash of approximately $5.4 million. Based on our current projections, we believe our current cash resources are sufficient to fund our normal operations into early 2009. We will need additional capital sooner than we currently expect if we experience unforeseen costs or expenses, unanticipated liabilities or delays in implementing our business plan, developing our products and achieving commercial sales. We also believe that we will need substantial capital to accelerate the growth and development of our pressure cycling technology products and services in the sample preparation area, as well as for applications in other areas of life sciences. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including but not limited to: · the problems, delays, expenses, and complications frequently encountered by early-stage companies; · market acceptance of our pressure cycling technology products and services for sample preparation; · the success of our sales and marketing programs; and · changes in economic, regulatory or competitive conditions in the markets we intend to serve. To satisfy our potential capital requirements to cover the cost of the development and commercialization of our pressure cycling technology products and services relating to sample preparation and other life science applications, we expect to raise additional funds in the public or private capital markets. Additional financing may not be available to us on a timely basis, if at all, or on terms acceptable to us. If adequate funds are not available or if we fail to obtain acceptable additional financing, we may be required to: · obtain financing with terms that may have the effect of diluting or adversely affecting the holdings or the rights of the holders of our common stock; · obtain funds through arrangements with future collaboration partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to some or all of our technologies or products; or · otherwise reduce planned expenditures and forego other business opportunities, which could harm our business. We have a history of operating losses, anticipate future losses and may never be profitable. We have experienced significant operating losses in the area of pressure cycling technology in each period since we began investing resources in pressure cycling technology in 1998. These losses have resulted principally from research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses associated with the development of our pressure cycling technology business. We expect to continue to incur operating losses until sales of our pressure cycling technology products increase substantially. We cannot be certain when, if ever, we will become profitable. Even if we were to become profitable, we might not be able to sustain such profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our financial results depend on revenues from our pressure cycling technology products and services, which has a limited operating history. We currently rely on revenues from our pressure cycling technology products and services in the sample preparation area. We only recently commercialized our pressure cycling technology products and services for sample preparation. Our limited sales and operating history may not be adequate to enable you to fully assess our ability to achieve market acceptance of our product offering. If we are unable to increase sales of our pressure cycling technology products and services, our business will fail. - 12 - Our business may be harmed if we encounter problems, delays, expenses, and complications that affect early-stage companies. We are an early-stage company and our pressure cycling technology business has a limited operating history. Early-stage companies may encounter problems, delays, expenses and complications, many of which may be beyond our control or may harm our business or prospects. These include: · unanticipated problems and costs relating to the development, testing, production, marketing, and sale of our products; · delays and costs associated with our ability to attract and retain key personnel; · availability of adequate financing; and · competition. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully complete the transition from an early-stage company to the commercialization of our pressure cycling technology products and services. We may be unable to obtain market acceptance of our pressure cycling technology products and services. Many of our initial sales of our pressure cycling technology products and services have been to our collaborators, following their use of our products in studies undertaken in sample preparation for genomics, proteomics and small molecules studies. Our technology requires scientists and researchers to adopt a method of sample extraction that is different than existing techniques. Our PCT sample preparation system is also more costly than existing techniques. Our ability to obtain market acceptance will depend, in part, on our ability to demonstrate to our potential customers that the benefits and advantages of our technology outweigh the increased cost of our technology compared to existing methods of sample extraction. If we are unable to demonstrate the benefits and advantages of our products and technology as compared to existing technologies, then we may not gain market acceptance and our business will fail. The sales cycle of our pressure cycling technology products is lengthy. We have incurred and may continue to incur significant expenses and we may not generate any significant revenue related to those products. Many of our current and potential customers have required between three and six months, or more to test and evaluate our pressure cycling technology products. This increases the possibility that a customer may decide to cancel its order or otherwise change its plans, which could reduce or eliminate our sales to that potential customer. As a result of this lengthy sales cycle, we have incurred and may continue to incur significant research and development, selling and marketing, and general and administrative expense related to customers from whom we have not yet generated any revenue from our products, and from whom we may never generate the anticipated revenue if a customer cancels or changes its plans. Our business could be harmed if our products contain undetected errors or defects. We are continuously developing new, and improving our existing, pressure cycling technology products in sample preparation and we expect to do so in other areas of life sciences depending upon the availability of our resources. Newly introduced products can contain undetected errors or defects. In addition, these products may not meet their performance specifications under all conditions or for all applications. If, despite internal testing and testing by our collaborators, any of our products contain errors or defects or fail to meet customer specifications, then we may be required to enhance or improve those products or technologies. We may not be able to do so on a timely basis, if at all, and may only be able to do so at considerable expense. In addition, any significant reliability problems could result in adverse customer reaction, negative publicity or legal claims and could harm our business and prospects. Our success may depend on our ability to manage growth effectively. We expect our operations to grow at a rapid pace as we further commercialize our pressure cycling technology in sample preparation and other areas of life sciences. Our failure to manage growth effectively could harm our business and prospects. Given our limited resources and personnel, growth of the business could place significant strain on our management, information technology systems, sources of manufacturing capacity and other resources. To properly manage our growth, we may need to hire additional employees and identify new sources of manufacturing capabilities. Failure to effectively manage our growth could make it difficult to manufacture our products and fill orders, as well as lead to declines in product quality or increased costs, any of which would adversely impact our business and results of operations. - 13 - Our success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our senior management. Our success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our senior management. We do not have long-term employment agreements with our key employees. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could make it more difficult to successfully operate our business and achieve our business goals. In addition, our failure to retain existing engineering, research and development and sales personnel could harm our product development capabilities and customer and employee relationships, delay the growth of sales of our products and could result in the loss of key information, expertise or know-how. We may not be able to hire or retain the number of qualified personnel, particularly engineering personnel, required for our business, which would harm the development and sales of our products and limit our ability to grow. Competition in our industry for senior management, technical, sales, marketing, finance and other key personnel is intense. If we are unable to retain our existing personnel, or attract and train additional qualified personnel, our growth may be limited. Our success also depends in particular on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain qualified engineering personnel with experience in design and development of laboratory equipment. Our reliance on a single third party for all of our manufacturing, and certain of our engineering, and other related services could harm our business. We currently rely on Source Scientific, LLC, a third party contract manufacturer, to manufacture our products, provide engineering expertise, and manage the majority of our sub-contractor supplier relationships. Because of our dependence on one manufacturer, our success will depend, in part, on the ability of Source Scientific to manufacture our products cost effectively, in sufficient quantities to meet our customer demand, if and when such demand occurs, and meeting our quality requirements. If Source Scientific experiences manufacturing problems or delays, or if Source Scientific decides not to continue to provide us with these services, our business may be harmed. While we believe other contract manufacturers are available to address our manufacturing and engineering needs, if we find it necessary to replace Source Scientific, there will be a disruption in our business and we would incur additional costs and delays that would harm our business. Our failure to manage current or future alliances or joint ventures effectively may harm our business. We have entered into business relationships with distribution partners, and we may enter into alliances, joint ventures or other business relationships to further develop our pressure cycling technology product line. We may not be able to: · identify appropriate candidates for alliances, joint ventures or other business relationships; · assure that any candidate for an alliance, joint venture or business relationship will provide us with the support anticipated; · successfully negotiate an alliance, joint venture or business relationship on terms that are advantageous to us; or · successfully manage any alliance or joint venture. Furthermore, any alliance, joint venture or other business relationship may divert management time and resources. Entering into a disadvantageous alliance, joint venture or business relationship, failing to manage an alliance, joint venture or business relationship effectively, or failing to comply with any obligations in connection therewith, could harm our business and prospects. We may not be successful in growing our international sales. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully develop our international sales channels to enable us to generate significant revenue from international sales. To date, we have entered into three international distribution agreements, one of which covers Belgium, France, and Switzerland, another covering Japan, and the third which covers South Korea. We have generated limited sales to date from international sales and cannot guarantee that we will be able to increase our sales. As we expand, our international operations may be subject to numerous risks and challenges, including: · multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including those that regulate high pressure equipment; · reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; · protectionist laws and business practices that favor local companies; - 14 - · political and economic changes and disruptions; · export/import controls; · tariff regulations; and · currency fluctuations. Our operating results are subject to quarterly variation. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period depending on a variety of factors, including the following: · our ability to increase our sales of our pressure cycling technology products for sample preparation on a consistent quarterly or annual basis; · the product mix of the Barocycler instruments we install in a given period, and whether the installations are completed pursuant to sales, rental or lease arrangements, and the average selling prices that we are able to command for our products; · our ability to manage our costs and expenses; · our ability to continue our research and development activities without unexpected costs and expenses; and · our ability to comply with state and federal regulations without incurring unexpected costs and expenses. Our instrumentation operates at high pressures and may therefore become subject to certain regulation in the European Community. Regulation of high pressure equipment may limit or hinder our development and sale of future instrumentation. Our Barocycler instruments operate at high pressures. If our Barocycler instruments exceed certain pressure levels, our products may become subject to the European Pressure Equipment Directive, which requires certain pressure equipment meet certain quality and safety standards. We do not believe that we are subject to this directive because our Barocycler instruments are currently below the threshold documented in the text of the directive. If our interpretation were to be challenged, we could incur significant costs defending the challenge, and we could face production and selling delays, all of which could harm our business. We expect that we will be subject to regulation in the United States, such as the FDA, and overseas as we begin to invest more resources in the development and commercialization of PCT in applications outside of sample preparation. Our current pressure cycling technology products in the area of sample preparation are not regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA. Applications in which we intend to develop and commercialize pressure cycling technology, such as protein purification, pathogen inactivation and immunodiagnostics, are expected to require regulatory approvals or clearances from regulatory agencies, such as the FDA, prior to commercialization. We expect that obtaining these approvals or clearances will require a significant investment of time and capital resources and there can be no assurance that such investments will receive approvals or clearances that would allow us to commercialize the technology for these applications. If we are unable to protect our patents and other proprietary technology relating to our pressure cycling technology products, our business will be harmed. Our ability to further develop and successfully commercialize our products will depend, in part, on our ability to enforce our patents, preserve our trade secrets, and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We currently have thirteen United States patents issued and several pending patent applications for our pressure cycling technology. Several of these have been followed up with foreign applications, for which three patents have been issued in Europe and one patent has been issued in Australia, one in Japan, and one in Canada. We expect to file additional foreign applications in the future relating to our pressure cycling technology, and we will file additional United States applications as we develop new patentable intellectual property. The patents which have been issued expire between 2015 and 2027. There can be no assurance that: · any patent applications filed by us will result in issued patents; · patent protection will be secured for any particular technology; - 15 - · any patents that have been or may be issued to us will be valid or enforceable; · any patents will provide meaningful protection to us; · others will not be able to design around our patents; or · our patents will provide a competitive advantage or have commercial value. The failure to obtain adequate patent protection would have a material adverse effect on us and may adversely affect our ability to enter into, or affect the terms of, any arrangement for the marketing or sale of any product. Our patents may be challenged by others. We could incur substantial costs in patent proceedings, including interference proceedings before the United States Patent and Trademark Office, and comparable proceedings before similar agencies in other countries, in connection with any claims that may arise in the future. These proceedings could result in adverse decisions about the patentability of our inventions and products, as well as about the enforceability, validity, or scope of protection afforded by the patents. If we are unable to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge, others may develop technology and products that could prevent the successful commercialization of our products. We also rely on trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information in our product development activities. To the extent we rely on trade secrets and unpatented know-how to maintain our competitive technological position, there can be no assurance that others may not independently develop the same or similar technologies. We seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge, in part, through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors and contractors. Nevertheless, these agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information and may not provide us with an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of such information. If our employees, consultants, advisors, or contractors develop inventions or processes independently that may be applicable to our products, disputes may arise about ownership of proprietary rights to those inventions and processes. Such inventions and processes will not necessarily become our property, but may remain the property of those persons or their employers. Protracted and costly litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection, for any reason, could harm our business. If we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, our business will be harmed. It is possible that the manufacture, use or sale of our pressure cycling technology products or services may infringe patent or other intellectual property rights of others. We may be unable to avoid infringement of the patent or other intellectual property rights of others and may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action, or challenge the validity of the patents or other intellectual property rights in court. We may be unable to secure a license on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all. Also, we may not prevail in any patent or other intellectual property rights litigation. Patent or other intellectual property rights litigation is costly and time-consuming, and there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to bring any possible litigation related to such infringement to a successful conclusion. If we do not obtain a license under such patents or other intellectual property rights, or if we are found liable for infringement, or if we are unsuccessful in having such patents declared invalid, we may be liable for significant monetary damages, may encounter significant delays in successfully commercializing and developing our pressure cycling technology products, or may be precluded from participating in the manufacture, use, or sale of our pressure cycling technology products or services requiring such licenses. We may be unable to adequately respond to rapid changes in technology and the development of new industry standards. The introduction of products and services embodying new technology and the emergence of new industry standards may render our existing pressure cycling technology products and related services obsolete and unmarketable if we are unable to adapt to change. We may be unable to allocate the funds necessary to improve our current products or introduce new products to address our customers’ needs and respond to technological change. In the event that other companies develop more technologically advanced products, our competitive position relative to such companies would be harmed. - 16 - We may not be able to compete successfully with others that are developing or have developed competitive technologies and products. A number of companies have developed, or are expected to develop, products that compete or will compete with our products. We compete with companies that have existing technologies for the extraction of nucleic acids, proteins and small molecules from cells and tissues, including methods such as mortar and pestle, sonication, rotor-stator homogenization, French press, bead beating, freezer milling, enzymatic digestion, and chemical dissolution. We are aware that there are additional companies pursuing new technologies with similar goals to the products developed or being developed by us. Some of the companies with which we now compete, or may compete in the future, have or may have more extensive research, marketing, and manufacturing capabilities, more experience in genomics and proteomics sample preparation, protein purification, pathogen inactivation, immunodiagnostics, and DNA sequencing and significantly greater technical, personnel and financial resources than we do, and may be better positioned to continue to improve their technology to compete in an evolving industry. To compete, we must be able to demonstrate to potential customers that our products provide improved performance and capabilities. Our failure to compete successfully could harm our business and prospects. In connection with our sale of substantially all of the assets of Boston Biomedica to SeraCare Life Sciences in September 2004, we continue to be exposed to possible indemnification claims in amounts up to the purchase price for the assets, which could prevent us from pursuing our remaining business operations in the event an indemnification claim is brought against us. In 2004 we sold substantially all of the assets of Boston Biomedica, our predecessor business, to SeraCare Life Sciences. Following the sale, we retained assets and liabilities relating to our pressure cycling technology business. In connection with the sale of assets, we agreed to provide indemnification for breaches of representations and warranties contained in the asset purchase agreement. Our indemnification obligations with respect to most matters have expired, though our obligations relating to breaches of certain representations and warranties, such as environmental and tax matters, continue to survive. Our indemnification obligations are limited by an overall cap equal to the $29 million purchase price. If we are required to pay any claims for indemnification from SeraCare Life Sciences, we will have less cash available to fund our operations, our business will be harmed and it may be difficult to continue our business at all. Provisions in our articles of organization and bylaws and our poison pill may discourage or frustrate shareholders’ attempts to remove or replace our current management. Our articles of organization and bylaws contain provisions that may make it more difficult or discourage changes in our management that our stockholders may consider to be favorable. These provisions include: · a classified board of directors; · advance notice for stockholder nominations to the board of directors; · limitations on the ability of stockholders to remove directors; and · a provision that allows a majority of the directors to fill vacancies on the board of directors. Our shareholders rights agreement, or “poison pill”, may also have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change in control. These provisions could prevent or frustrate attempts to make changes in our management that our stockholders consider to be beneficial and could limit the price that our stockholders might receive in the future for shares of our common stock. The costs of compliance with the reporting obligations of the Exchange Act, and with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, may place a strain on our limited resources and our management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns. As a result of the regulatory requirements applicable to public companies, we incur legal, accounting, and other expenses that are significant in relation to the size of our company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and Nasdaq, have required changes in corporate governance and financial disclosure practices of public companies, some of which are currently applicable to us and others will or may become applicable to us in the future. These rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and may make some activities more time-consuming. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and on our management and financial resources. - 17 - ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable. ITEM 