Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 11 Item 2. Properties 11 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 11 Item 4. (Removed and Reserved) 11 PART II: Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 12 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 13 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 13 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 15 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 16 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 32 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 32 Item 9A(T). Controls and Procedures 32 Item 9B. Other Information 33 PART III: Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 34 Item 11. Executive Compensation 36 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 36 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 37 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 37 PART IV: Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 39 SIGNATURES: 39 (2) Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS HISTORY Hutech21 Co. Ltd. (the “Company” or “CLGZF”) was converted from the State of Nevada to British Virgin Island in 2011. The Company was originally incorporated in the State of Nevada on December 23, 1988, formerly known as China Logistics Inc., China International Tourism Holdings, Ltd., Dark Dynamite, Inc., NCI Holdings, Inc., Vector Holding, Inc., and prior to June 26, 2002, Vector Aeromotive Corporation. On February 17, 2009, the Company entered into a transfer & change of control agreement with Ms. Wanwen Su (“Ms. Su”) and Mr. Ming Lei (“Mr. Lei”), pursuant to which, Ms. Su acquired from Mr. Lei 26,360 shares of preferred stock of the Company and received a “controlling interest” in the Company. On February 18, 2009, our Board of Directors adopted a resolution approving a two hundred to one reverse split of our issued and outstanding Common Stock. The reverse split combined our outstanding Common Stock on the basis of 200 outstanding shares being changed to 1 outstanding share. Each shareholder’s percentage ownership in the Company (and relative voting power) remained essentially unchanged as a result of the reverse split. The reverse split was effective on April 3, 2009. On February 18, 2009, a Plan of Exchange (the “Exchange”) was executed between and among the Company, Chengkai Logistics Co Ltd., a corporation organized under the laws of the Peoples’ Republic of China (“Chengkai”), and the shareholders of Chengkai (“Chengkai Shareholders”). The Exchange was consummated on May 19, 2009, pursuant to which 50,000,000 (after taking into account the Reverse Split) shares of the Company’s common stock were issued to the stockholder of Chengkai. Thereafter, Chengkai became the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary. On April 23, 2009, China Logistics, Inc. (F/K/A China International Tourism Holdings, Ltd.), entered into an Agreement (the “Agreement”) between and among the Registrant, Shanxi Kai Da Lv You Gu Wen Xian Gong Si, a corporation organized under the laws of the Peoples’ Republic of China (“Kai Da”), and Mr. Lei Ming, an individual (“Buyer”). Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, the Buyer acquired 100% of the total assets of $407,616 and total liabilities of $481,275 (collectively “Kai Da Assets and Liabilities) from the Registrant for the payment of good and valuable consideration of $100.00 (the “Purchase Price”). As a result of the transactions consummated at the closing, the purchase and issuance gave the former president a 'controlling interest' in Kai Da, and Kai Da was no longer a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. On August 10, 2009, the Company changed its corporate name from China International Tourism Holdings, Ltd. to China Logistics Inc. to provide a more accurate description of the Company’s current operations and marketing efforts in the logistic industry. Accordingly, the ticker symbol of the Company’s Common Stock was changed to “CLGZ” and then to "CLGZF" upon completion of our conversion to a British Virgin Islands company. BUSINESS DESCRIPTION OF THE ISSUER Since the reverse merger with Chengkai was consummated, we have continued operations of Chengkai, a logistic company specializing in logistical services for car manufacturers, car components, food assortments, chemicals, paper, and machinery in China. Chengkai was incorporated in the PRC on October 19, 2004 as a limited liability company, with registered capital of approximately $1,000,000 as of December 31, 2010. Chengkai is located in Guangzhou City, one of the largest commercial bases in China, and a booming transportation hub with easy access to railroad, highway, and rivers. Chengkai has two logistic centers located in Baiyun Airport and the Huangpu Xingang Port in Guangzhou City, Guangdong Province, China. CLGZF and our wholly-owned subsidiary Chengkai are hereafter referred to as the “Company” or “we”. The Company specializes in logistical services for car manufacturers, car components, food assortments, chemicals, paper, and machinery in China. The services cover various aspects of transportation management, including logistical planning, import and export management, electronic customs declaration systems, supply chain planning, transporting products from ports to warehouses or vice versa, organization of transportation, and storage and distribution of products. The Company’s customers include international companies and domestic enterprises in China from various industries. Their clients from the automobile industry include Rolls Royce Automobile Accessories, Mercedes Benz Automobile Accessories, Peugeot Automobile Accessories, BMW Automobile Accessories, and Nissan Automobile Accessories. Their electronic industries clients include IBM Electronics and Creator Corporation China. The Company’s chemical industries clients include Korean LG Chemical Engineering Company, French Rhodia Chemical Company, Spanish Caster Rubber Company, and Korean Dongsung Chemical Co., Ltd. The Company’s customer base has been increasing at a rapid pace, especially within the Food Industry, Paper Industry, Mechanical Industry, Garment Industry, Furniture Industry and Daily Commodity Industry. (3) Table of Contents SERVICES International Trade and Import & Export Management Import & export trade, domestic distribution and purchasing solutions are provided by the Company to reach a win-win business solution. Through several years of practice of commercial trading in China, the Company has accumulated resourceful working experiences and gained close partnerships with financial institutions. These financial institutions help us combine our business procedures and financial status to provide value-added and win-win business solutions for our clients. * Purchasing process * Services orienting towards foreign purchasers * Services for domestic manufacturing purchasers * Distribution process * Efficient import & export customs declaration * Supply-chain financing service Some international purchasers, who need to purchase their commodities and balance the account among several districts within the country, will more or less be restricted by the local policies such as the leverage of foreign exchange, value-added tax, and import & export trading rights. In order to solve such inadequacies, the Company strives to improve their clients’ working efficiency, and help minimize costs. We minimize costs by integrating manufacturing resources such as purchasing, R&D and manufacturers. We center on a specific or diversified products that highlight core business. We also incorporate management of materials, information and financing. We commit to a more reliable and efficient supply-chain partnership with manufacturers and transnational purchasers. Customs Declaration The Company provides customs affairs trusteeship, consultations, and software application solutions on customs network supervision. Customs affairs have become very complicated in China given the supervision on processing trade, factors concerning China’s policies, and the local implementation and the conflicts that might occur within enterprises. We, as the third party that gets involved in between the government and enterprises, strive to keep sound relationships with governmental departments. With the support of some relevant departments, and our experiences and specialty in dealing with customs affairs, we can provide a comprehensive backup service for our clients. Specialties: In regards to the supervision policies on processing trade, we provide declaration management strategies and computerized system for enterprises engaged in processing trade, so as to improve their management level, optimize their declaration procedures, and control their declaration risks. * We automatically collect data in the manufacturing management database. * We safely connect the manufacturing management system and accounting management system of the enterprises. * We develop customized planning that corresponds to each enterprise. * We monitors and analyzes capital flow. Warehousing and Transportation The Company provides diversified logistics solutions. In order to construct an efficient logistics system, the Company has established solutions with our co-partners, based on the needs of our clients. Through effective integration of logistics, we provide various logistics solution for our clients. Our experienced consultants diagnose and analyze elements that make up of the whole supply-chain to help customize a logistic system that shortens the time of order to the time of delivery. (4) Table of Contents Specialties: * Production Logistics * Sales Logistics * International Logistics Production Logistics Our client’s competitiveness is measured through the enterprise’s capacity to improve its production efficiency, lower its comprehensive cost and practice expenditures, all of which are realized through the optimization and improvement of production logistics system. In-time supply and keeping appropriate inventory are of the most concerned by manufacturers. We, together with other enterprises, have worked for many years in establishing an efficient logistics system in line with our client’s needs. * Production accessories and raw material supply * Vendor managed inventory (VMI :Vendor Managed Inventory) * Land transportation * In-factory logistics Sales Logistics The Company provides managerial operations as well as delivery service for product agents, dealers, and department stores. * National network transportation * Management and operation in the logistics center * 3C digital product logistics * Quality inspection of clothing and textile goods International Logistics Through the Company’s talented staff and reliable partnerships, the Company provides international cargo transportation that supports business expansion efforts of clients. * International Logistics Business Below are illustrations of our logistics procedures: (5) Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are many factors that affect our business, operating results and financial conditions, many of which are beyond its control. The following is a description of the most significant factors that might cause the actual results of operations in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or desired. Business Risk Factors Our auditors have expressed doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we do not generate substantial revenue from our new relationships and are also unable to obtain capital from other resources, we will significantly curtail our operations or halt them entirely. Historically, we have been dependent on financings to fund our development and working capital needs. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we had net loss of $46,648, resulting in our accumulated deficit of $1,114,708 as of December 31, 2010. Accordingly, if we do not develop any new projects, we would have to continue to severely diminish our operations or halt them entirely. The opinion of our auditors contains an explanatory paragraph regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Competitors could copy our business model and erode our market share, brand recognition and profitability. We cannot assure you that our competitors will not attempt to copy our business model, or portions thereof, and that this will not erode our market share and brand recognition and impair our growth rate and profitability. In response to any such competitors, we may be required to decrease our fees, which may reduce our operating margins and profitability. Because our officers and directors reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights against them or enforce United States court judgments against them in China. Our directors and our executive officers reside in the PRC and all of our assets are located in China. It may therefore be difficult for United States investors to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under federal securities laws. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and China would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of the federal securities laws. Because we may not be able to obtain business insurance in the PRC, we may not be protected from risks that are customarily covered by insurance in the United States. Business insurance is not readily available in China. To the extent that we suffer a loss of a type which would normally be covered by insurance in the United States, such as product liability and general liability insurance, we would incur significant expenses in both defending any action and in paying any claims that result from a settlement or judgment. Because our funds are held in banks which do not provide insurance, the failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could affect our ability to continue in business. Banks and other financial institutions in the PRC do not provide insurance for funds held on deposit. As a result, in the event of a bank failure, we may not have access to funds on deposit. Depending upon the amount of money we maintain in a bank that fails, our inability to have access to our cash could impair our operations, and, if we are not able to access funds to pay our suppliers, employees and other creditors, we may be unable to continue in business. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in China. We can make no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results and stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting. Internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. Under the current SEC regulations, we will be required to include an auditor’s report on internal controls over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2009. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment, regardless of whether we are required to maintain such controls, could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Although we are not aware of anything that would impact our ability to maintain effective internal controls, we have not obtained an independent audit of our internal controls, and, as a result, we are not aware of any deficiencies which would result from such an audit. Further, at such time as we are required to comply with the internal controls requirements of Sarbanes Oxley, we may incur significant expenses in having our internal controls audited and in implementing any changes which are required. Declining economic conditions could negatively impact our business Our operations are affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions. Markets in the United States and elsewhere have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than 12 months, due in part to the financial stresses affecting the liquidity of the banking system and the financial markets generally. This volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. The consequences of a potential or prolonged recession may include a lower level of economic activity and uncertainty regarding energy prices and the capital and commodity markets. While the ultimate outcome and impact of the current economic conditions cannot be predicted, a lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in overall sales. Instability in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, also may affect the cost of capital and our ability to raise capital. (6) Table of Contents Material Disruptions At Our Facilities Could Negatively Impact Our Financial Results. We operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. A material disruption at one of our facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our financial results. Any of our facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: *unscheduled maintenance outages; *prolonged power failures; *an equipment failure; *a chemical spill or release; *explosion of a boiler; *the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply; *labor difficulties; *disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels; *fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes; *terrorism or threats of terrorism; *domestic and international laws and regulations applicable to our Company and our business partners, including joint venture partners, around the world; and *other operational problems. Any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our services and/or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures. If one of these facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and having a negative effect on our financial results. China Logistics’ business plan is based, in part, on estimates and assumptions which may prove to be inaccurate and accordingly their business plan may not succeed. The discussion of the business incorporates management’s current best estimate and analysis of the potential market, opportunities and difficulties that China Logistics faces. There can be no assurances that the underlying assumptions accurately reflect opportunities and potential for success. Competitive and economic forces on marketing, distribution and pricing of products make forecasting of sales, revenues and costs extremely difficult and unpredictable. Adverse changes in economic policies of the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of the PRC, which could reduce the demand for China Logistics’ services and materially adversely affect its business. All of China Logistics’ assets are located in and all of its revenue is sourced from the PRC. Accordingly, China Logistics’ business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be influenced to a significant degree by political, economic and social conditions in the PRC generally and by continued economic growth in the PRC as a whole. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. Although the PRC government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in the PRC is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over the PRC’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth over the past decade, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on China Logistics. For example, China Logistics’ operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to it. (7) Table of Contents Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. The value of our common stock will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. Because substantially all of our earnings and cash assets are denominated in RMB fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the RMB will affect the relative purchasing power of our monies, our balance sheet and our earnings per share in U.S. dollars. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars as well as earnings from, and the value of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Since July 2005, the RMB has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currencies. Industry Risk Factors High fuel prices may increase carrier prices and volatility in fuel prices may make it more difficult to pass through this cost to our clients, which may impair our operating results. Fuel prices recently reached historically high levels and continue to be volatile and difficult to predict. In the event fuel prices rise, carriers can be expected to charge higher prices to cover higher operating expenses, and our gross profits and income from operations may decrease if we are unable to continue to pass through to our clients the full amount of these higher costs. Higher fuel costs could also cause material shifts in the percentage of our revenue by transportation mode, as our clients may elect to utilize alternative transportation modes, such as inter-modal. In addition, increased volatility in fuel prices may affect our gross profits and income from operations if we are not able to pass through to our clients any higher costs associated with such volatility. Any material shifts to transportation modes with respect to which we realize lower gross profit margins could impair our operating results. If we fail to maintain and upgrade our information technology systems to meet the demands of our customers and protect our information technology systems against risks that we cannot control, our business may be adversely affected. We compete for customers based in part on the flexibility and sophistication of our information technology systems. The failure of the hardware or software that supports these systems, the loss of data contained in the systems or the inability to access or interact with our website or connect with our customers electronically, could significantly disrupt our operations, prevent customers from placing orders with us or cause us to lose freight, orders or customers. If our information technology systems are unable to handle additional volume as our business and scope of services grow, our service levels and operating efficiency will likely decline. In addition, we expect that our customers will continue to demand increasingly sophisticated information technology systems from us. If we fail to hire or retain qualified persons to implement, maintain and protect our information technology systems, or if we fail to upgrade or replace our information technology systems to handle increased volumes and levels of complexity and meet the increased demands of our customers, our business may be adversely affected. Our information technology systems are dependent upon global communications providers, web browsers, telephone systems and other aspects of the Internet infrastructure that have experienced significant system failures and electrical outages in the past. Our systems are also susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. Although we have implemented network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. The occurrence of any of these events could disrupt or damage our information technology systems and adversely affect our internal operations, our ability to provide services to our customers and the ability of our customers to access our information technology systems. (8) Table of Contents Stock Risk Factors Certain shareholders control a majority voting right. Our chief executive officer owns 100% of the outstanding shares of our preferred stock, each share of which constitutes twenty-five (25) Common Share votes (subject to adjustment for stock splits, stock dividends, combinations, and the like upon occurrence of such event, if any) in all matters, representing 59.91% of total voting right. Accordingly, he will be able to influence the election of our directors and thereby influence or direct our policies. No dividends have been paid on our preferred stock and common stock To date, we have not paid any cash dividends on our preferred stock and common stock. We do not expect to declare or pay dividends on the preferred and common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, the payment of cash dividends may be limited or prohibited by the terms of any future loan agreements. We may need to issue more stock, which could dilute your stock. If China Logistics does not have enough capital to meet future capital requirements, they may need to conduct additional capital-raising in order to continue operations. To the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity and/or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities could result in dilution to shareholders and/or increased debt service commitments. Accordingly, if China Logistics issues additional stock, it could reduce the value of your stock. Our stock may be subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which will be beyond our control and may prevent our stockholders from reselling our common stock at a profit. The securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in the past. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. Investors may be unable to resell their shares of our common stock for a profit. The decline in the market price of our common stock and market conditions generally could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital, to complete future acquisitions of or investments in other businesses and to attract and retain qualified technical and sales and marketing personnel. There is no trading market for our shares of common stock and you may be unable to sell your shares. There has never been a public trading market in our common stock and no such trading market is expected to develop in the immediate future. We are relying on certain exemptions from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, which will result in certain restrictions on the resale of our shares. We are not obligated to repurchase any shares at the request of any holder thereof. Further, we are not obligated to register our common stock under the Securities Act of 1933 or to otherwise contact market makers to create and maintain a market in our shares. Our common stock is not a suitable investment for investors who require liquidity. There can be no assurance that a significant public market for our securities will develop or be sustained following this offering. Thus, there is a risk that you may never be able to sell your shares. Because we may be subject to the “penny stock” rules, you may have difficulty in selling our common stock. Because our stock price is less than $5.00 per share, our stock may be subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements and restrictions on broker-dealers that sell our stock to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors. The application of these rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and may affect your ability to sell any common stock you may own. (9) Table of Contents According to the SEC, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include: * Control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; * Manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; * “Boiler room” practices involving high pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; * Excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and * The wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the inevitable collapse of those prices with consequent investor losses. As an issuer of “penny stock” the protection provided by the federal securities laws relating to forward looking statements does not apply to us. Although the federal securities laws provide a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by a public company that files reports under the federal securities laws, this safe harbor is not available to issuers of penny stocks. As a result, if we are a penny stock, we will not have the benefit of this safe harbor protection in the event of any claim that the material provided by us contained a material misstatement of fact or was misleading in any material respect because of our failure to include any statements necessary to make the statements not misleading. The application of the "penny stock" rules could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and increase your transaction costs to sell those shares. As long as the trading price of our common shares is below $5 per share, the open-market trading of our common shares will be subject to the "penny stock" rules. The "penny stock" rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 together with their spouse). For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of securities and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction before the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the broker-dealer must deliver, before the transaction, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information on the limited market in penny stocks. These additional burdens imposed on broker-dealers may restrict the ability or decrease the willingness of broker-dealers to sell our common shares, and may result in decreased liquidity for our common shares and increased transaction costs for sales and purchases of our common shares as compared to other securities. (10) Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 