Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this prospectus before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the trading price of your shares could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related To Our Business And Properties The current turmoil in the credit markets could limit demand for our office properties and affect the overall availability and cost of credit. The current turmoil in the credit markets could limit demand for our office properties and affect the overall availability and cost of credit. At this time, there can be no assurance that the actions taken by the U.S. government, Federal Reserve or other government and regulatory bodies for the reported purpose of stabilizing the economy or financial markets will achieve their intended effect. With respect to the Company, currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations, however, the impact of the current crisis on our ability to obtain financing in the future and the costs and terms of the same, is unclear. No assurances can be given that the effects of the current crisis will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or trading price of our Common Stock. In addition, given these current conditions, the Company’s business and results of operations could be adversely affected as follows: • Our tenants may experience a deterioration in their sales or other revenue, or experience a constraint on the availability of credit necessary to fund operations, which in turn may adversely impact those tenants’ ability to pay contractual base rents and tenant recoveries. Some tenants may terminate their occupancy due to an inability to operate profitably for an extended period of time, impacting our ability to maintain occupancy levels. • Constraints on the availability of credit to tenants, necessary to purchase and install improvements, fixtures and equipment, and fund start-up business expenses, could impact our ability to procure new tenants for spaces currently vacant in existing operating properties or properties under development. 6 Table of Contents • Our co-investment partners could experience difficulty obtaining financing in the future for the same reasons discussed above. Their inability to obtain financing on acceptable terms, or at all, could negatively impact our ability to acquire additional properties. All of our properties are located in Southern California, Phoenix, and Honolulu. We are dependent on the Southern California, Phoenix and Honolulu office markets and economies, and are therefore susceptible to risks of events in those markets that could adversely affect our business, such as adverse market conditions, changes in local laws or regulations, and natural disasters. Because all of our properties are concentrated in Southern California, Phoenix and Honolulu, we will be exposed to greater economic risks than if we owned a more geographically dispersed portfolio. We will be susceptible to adverse developments in the Southern California, Phoenix and Honolulu economic and regulatory environments (such as business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, relocations of businesses, increases in real estate and other taxes, costs of complying with governmental regulations or increased regulation and other factors) as well as natural disasters that occur in these areas (such as earthquakes, floods and other events). In addition, the State of California is also regarded as more litigious and more highly regulated and taxed than many states, which may reduce demand for office space in California. Any adverse developments in the economy or real estate markets in Southern California, Phoenix or Honolulu, or any decrease in demand for office space resulting from the Southern California, Phoenix or Honolulu regulatory or business environments, could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow, the per share trading price of our common stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to you. We are prohibited from disposing of or refinancing the Contributed Properties under certain circumstances until March 2018. A sale of any of the Contributed Properties that would not provide continued tax deferral to Venture is prohibited under the Master Agreement and the contribution agreements for such properties for ten years after the closing of the transactions related to such properties. These prohibitions may prevent us from selling such properties when we desire or from obtaining in any disposition the best terms that would otherwise be available to us absent such prohibitions. In addition, we have agreed for such ten-year period to not prepay or defease any mortgage indebtedness of such properties, other than for concurrent refinancing with non-recourse mortgage debt of equal or greater amount, and to observe restrictions on encumbering such properties. These restrictions limit our ability to refinance indebtedness on those properties and will limit our ability to manage our debt structure. As a result, we may be unable to obtain capital resources that would otherwise be available to us. Furthermore, if any such sale or defeasance is foreseeable, we are required to notify Venture and to cooperate with it in considering strategies to defer or mitigate the recognition of gain under the Internal Revenue Code. These contractual obligations may limit our future operating flexibility and compel us to take actions or undertake transactions that we otherwise would not undertake. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, we will be liable for a make-whole cash payment to Venture, the cost of which could be material and could adversely affect our liquidity. Our operating performance is subject to risks associated with the real estate industry. Real estate investments are subject to various risks and fluctuations and cycles in value and demand, many of which are beyond our control. Certain events may decrease cash available for dividends, as well as the value of our properties. These events include, but are not limited to: • adverse changes in economic and demographic conditions; • vacancies or our inability to rent space on favorable terms; • adverse changes in financial conditions of buyers, sellers and tenants of properties; • inability to collect rent from tenants; • competition from other real estate investors with significant capital, including other real estate operating companies, publicly traded REITs and institutional investment funds; 7 Table of Contents • reductions in the level of demand for office space, and changes in the relative popularity of properties; • increases in the supply of office space; • fluctuations in interest rates, which could adversely affect our ability, or the ability of buyers and tenants of properties, to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all; • increases in expenses, including insurance costs, labor costs, energy prices, real estate assessments and other taxes and costs of compliance with laws, regulations and governmental policies, and our inability to pass on some or all of these increases to our tenants; and • changes in, and changes in enforcement of, laws, regulations and governmental policies, including, without limitation, health, safety, environmental, zoning and tax laws, governmental fiscal policies and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, which we call the ADA. In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates or declining demand for real estate, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could result in a general decline in rents or an increased incidence of defaults under existing leases. If we cannot operate our properties so as to meet our financial expectations, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to you could be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we can achieve our economic objectives. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness outstanding on a consolidated basis, which may affect our ability to pay dividends, may expose us to interest rate fluctuation risk and may expose us to the risk of default under our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2008, our total consolidated indebtedness was approximately $424 million. Our joint venture properties are also leveraged and we may incur significant additional debt for various purposes, including the funding of future acquisitions of property. Payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave our property-owning entities with insufficient cash resources to operate our properties and/or pay distributions to us so that we can make distributions to shareholders currently contemplated or necessary to maintain our REIT qualification. Our substantial outstanding indebtedness, and the limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements, could have significant other adverse consequences, including the following: • our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; • we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms, which could adversely affect our liquidity for acquisitions or operations; • we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our original indebtedness; • we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms; • we will be exposed to interest and future interest rate volatility with respect to indebtedness that is variable rate; and • any property-owning entity may default on its obligations and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties and execute on any collateral that secures their loans. If any one of these events were to occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to you could be adversely affected. In addition, any foreclosure on our properties could create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, which could adversely affect our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Internal Revenue Code. 8 Table of Contents We will be subject to risks and liabilities unique to joint venture relationships. We own properties through “joint venture” investments in which we co-invest with another investor. Our business plan contemplates further acquisitions of office properties through joint ventures and sales to institutions of partial ownership of properties that we wholly-own. Real estate is relatively difficult to sell quickly. We may be unable to realize our investment objectives by a sale of equity at attractive prices within any given period of time or may otherwise be unable to complete any exit strategy. In particular, these risks could arise from weakness in or even the lack of an established market for a property, changes in the financial condition or prospects of prospective purchasers, changes in national or international economic conditions, and changes in laws, regulations or fiscal policies of jurisdictions in which the property is located. Joint venture investments involve certain risks, including: • co-investment partners may control or share certain approval rights over major decisions; • co-investment partners may fail to fund their share of any required capital commitments; • co-investment partners might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals that would affect our ability to operate the property; • co-investment partners may have the power to act contrary to our instructions and policies, including our current policy with respect to maintaining our REIT qualification; • joint venture agreements often restrict the transfer of a member’s or co-investment partner’s interest or “buy-sell” or may otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms; • disputes between us and our co-investment partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and divert attention from other elements of our business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable joint venture to additional risk; and • we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our co-investment partners. The occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to pay dividends. If we are deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not expect to operate as an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act. However, the analysis relating to whether a company qualifies as an investment company can involve technical and complex rules and regulations. If we own assets that qualify as “investment securities” as such term is defined under this Act and the value of such assets exceeds 40% of the value of our total assets, we could be deemed to be an investment company. If we held investment securities and the value of these securities exceeded 40% of the value of our total assets we may be required to register as an investment company. Investment companies are subject to a variety of substantial requirements that could significantly impact our operations. The costs and expenses we would incur to register and operate as an investment company, as well as the limitations placed on our operations, could have a material adverse impact on our operations and your investment return. In order to operate in a manner to avoid being required to register as an investment company we may be unable to sell assets we would otherwise want to sell or we may need to sell assets we would otherwise wish to retain. In addition, we may also have to forgo opportunities to acquire interests in companies or entities that we would otherwise want to acquire. Our success depends on the ability of our Advisor to operate properties, and our Advisor’s failure to operate our properties in a sufficient manner could have a material adverse effect on the value of our real estate investments and results of operations. We presently have no employees. Our officers are employees of our Advisor. We depend on the ability of our Advisor to operate our properties and manage our other investments in a manner sufficient to maintain or increase revenues and to generate sufficient revenues in excess of our operating and other expenses. Our Advisor is not required to dedicate any particular number of employees or employee hours to our business in order to fulfill its obligations under the Advisory Agreement. We are subject to the risk that our Advisor will terminate the Advisory 9 Table of Contents Agreement and that no suitable replacement will be found to manage us. We believe that our success depends to a significant extent upon the experience of our Advisor’s executive officers, whose continued service is not guaranteed. If our Advisor terminates the Advisory Agreement, we may not be able to execute our business plan and may suffer losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The failure of our Advisor to operate our properties and manage our other investments will adversely affect the underlying value of our real estate investments, the results of our operations and out ability to make distributions to our stockholders and to pay amounts due on our indebtedness. We depend on the experience and expertise of our and our Advisor’s senior management team, and the loss of the services of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business strategy, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on the efforts, diligence, skill, network of business contacts and close supervision of all aspects of our business by our Advisor. Our continued success will depend on the continued service of our and our Advisor’s senior management team. The loss of their services could harm our business strategy, financial condition and results of operations, which would adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our Advisor’s corporate management fee is payable regardless of our performance, which may reduce its incentive to devote time and resources to our portfolio. Our Advisor is entitled to receive a corporate management fee of $1.5 million per year, regardless of the performance of our portfolio. Our Advisor’s entitlement to substantial non-performance based compensation might reduce its incentive to devote its time and effort to seeking profitable opportunities for our portfolio. This in turn could hurt our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The actual rents we receive for the properties in our portfolio may be less than our asking rents, and we may experience lease roll down from time to time. We may be unable to realize our asking rents across the properties in our portfolio because of: • competitive pricing pressure in our submarkets: • adverse conditions in the Southern California, Phoenix or Honolulu real estate markets: • general economic downturn; and • the desirability of our properties compared to other properties in our submarkets. In addition, the degree of discrepancy between our asking rents and the actual rents we are able to obtain may vary both from property to property and among different leased spaces within a single property. If we are unable to achieve our asking rents across our portfolio, then our ability to generate cash flow growth will be negatively impacted. In addition, depending on asking rental rates at any given time as compared to expiring leases in our portfolio, from time to time rental rates for expiring leases may be higher than starting rental rates for new leases. We may be unable to renew leases or lease vacant space. As of December 31, 2008, leases representing approximately 13.8% of the 4,330,391 rentable square feet of our total portfolio were scheduled to expire in 2009, and an additional approximately 14.8% of the square footage of our total portfolio was available for lease. These leases may not be renewed, or may be re-leased at rental rates equal to or below existing rental rates. Substantial rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or below-market renewal options may be offered to attract new tenants or retain existing tenants. Accordingly, portions of our properties may remain vacant for extended periods of time. In addition, some existing leases currently provide tenants with options to renew the terms of their leases at rates that are less than the current market rate or to terminate their leases prior to the expiration date thereof. If we are unable to obtain rental rates that are on average comparable to our asking rents across our portfolio, then our ability to generate cash flow growth will be negatively impacted. 10 Table of Contents Potential losses may not be covered by insurance. Our business operations in Southern California, Phoenix and Honolulu are susceptible to, and could be significantly affected by, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, volcanoes, wind, floods, landslides, drought and fires. These adverse weather conditions and natural disasters could cause significant damage to the properties in our portfolio, the risk of which is enhanced by the concentration of our properties’ locations. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover business interruption or losses resulting from adverse weather or natural disasters. In addition, our insurance policies include customary deductibles and limitations on recovery. As a result, we may be required to incur significant costs in the event of adverse weather conditions and natural disasters. We may discontinue earthquake or any other insurance coverage on some or all of our properties in the future if the cost of premiums for any of these policies in our judgment exceeds the value of the coverage discounted for the risk of loss. Furthermore, we do not carry insurance for certain losses, including, but not limited to, losses caused by war or by certain environmental conditions, such as mold or asbestos. In addition, our title insurance policies may not insure for the current aggregate market value of our portfolio, and we do not intend to increase our title insurance coverage as the market value of our portfolio increases. As a result, we may not have sufficient coverage against all losses that we may experience, including from adverse title claims. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy limits, we could incur significant costs and lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. In addition, our properties may not be able to be rebuilt to their existing height or size at their existing location under current land-use laws and policies. In the event that we experience a substantial or comprehensive loss of one of our properties, we may not be able to rebuild such property to its existing specifications and otherwise may have to upgrade such property to meet current code requirements. Terrorism and other factors affecting demand for our properties could harm our operating results. The strength and profitability of our business depends on demand for and the value of our properties. Future terrorist attacks in the United States, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and other acts of terrorism or war may have a negative impact on our operations. Such terrorist attacks could have an adverse impact on our business even if they are not directed at our properties. In addition, the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 have substantially affected the availability and price of insurance coverage for certain types of damages or occurrences, and our insurance policies for terrorism include large deductibles and co-payments. Although we maintain terrorism insurance coverage on our portfolio, the lack of sufficient insurance for these types of acts could expose us to significant losses and could have a negative impact on our operations. We face intense competition, which may decrease, or prevent increases of, the occupancy and rental rates of our properties. We compete with a number of developers, owners and operators of office real estate, many of which own properties similar to ours in the same markets in which our properties are located. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates, or below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants, we may lose existing or potential tenants and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge or to offer more substantial rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or below-market renewal options in order to retain tenants when our tenants’ leases expire. In that case, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to you may be adversely affected. Because we own real property, we will be subject to extensive environmental regulation which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. Environmental laws regulate, and impose liability for, releases of hazardous or toxic substances into the environment. Under some of these laws, an owner or operator of real estate may be liable for costs related to soil or groundwater contamination on or migrating to or from its property. In addition, persons who arrange for the disposal 11 Table of Contents or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may be liable for the costs of cleaning up contamination at the disposal site. These laws often impose liability regardless of whether the person knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances that caused the contamination. Contamination resulting from any of these substances or the failure to properly remediate them, may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent our property or to borrow using the property as collateral. In addition, persons exposed to hazardous or toxic substances may sue for personal injury damages. For example, some laws impose liability for release of or exposure to asbestos-containing materials, a substance known to be present in a number of our buildings. In other cases, some of our properties may have been impacted by contamination from past operations or from off-site sources. As a result, we may be potentially liable for investigation and cleanup costs, penalties, and damages under environmental laws. Although most of our properties have been subjected to preliminary environmental assessments, known as Phase I assessments, by independent environmental consultants that identify certain liabilities, Phase I assessments are limited in scope, and may not include or identify all potential environmental liabilities or risks associated with the property. Unless required by applicable law, we may decide not to further investigate, remedy or ameliorate the liabilities disclosed in the Phase I assessments. Further, these or other environmental studies may not identify all potential environmental liabilities, or accurately assess whether we will incur material environmental liabilities in the future. If we do incur material environmental liabilities in the future, we may face significant remediation costs, and we may find it difficult to sell any affected properties. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unanticipated expenditures that could significantly reduce the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Under the ADA all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Although we believe that our properties substantially comply with present requirements of the ADA, we have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance. If one or more of our properties or future properties is not in compliance with the ADA, then we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance. Additional federal, state and local laws also may require modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. We cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. In addition, our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. If we were to fail to comply with these various requirements, we might incur governmental fines or private damage awards. We have received representations and warranties from Venture and the other parties from whom we have acquired properties as to material compliance of our properties with applicable regulatory requirements. However, violations may be discovered following the expiration of these representations and warranties and existing requirements will change and future requirements may require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA or any other regulatory requirements, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, market price of our common stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected. Local regulations, including municipal or local ordinances, zoning restrictions and restrictive covenants imposed by community developers may restrict our use of our properties and may require us to obtain approval from local officials or community standards organizations at any time with respect to our properties, including prior to acquiring a property or when undertaking renovations of any of our existing properties. We may be unable to complete acquisitions that would grow our business and, even if consummated, we may fail to successfully integrate and operate acquired properties. We plan to acquire additional properties as opportunities arise. Our ability to acquire properties on favorable terms and successfully integrate and operate them is subject to the following significant risks: • we may be unable to acquire desired properties because of competition from other real estate investors with better access to less expensive capital, including other real estate operating companies, publicly traded REITs and investment funds; 12 Table of Contents • we may acquire properties that are not accretive to our results upon acquisition, and we may not successfully manage and lease those properties to meet our expectations; • competition from other potential acquirers may significantly increase purchase prices; • we may be unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, or obtain the necessary debt or equity financing to consummate an acquisition on favorable terms or at all; • we may need to spend more than anticipated amounts to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties; • we may spend significant time and money on potential acquisitions that we do not consummate; • we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions into our existing operations; • we may suffer higher than expected vacancy rates and/or lower than expected rental rates; and • we may acquire properties without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, for liabilities, against the former owners of the properties. If we cannot complete property acquisitions on favorable terms, or operate acquired properties to meet our goals or expectations, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to you could be adversely affected. We may be unable to successfully expand our operations into new markets in the western United States. Each of the risks applicable to our ability to acquire and successfully integrate and operate properties in the markets in which our properties are located are also applicable to our ability to acquire and successfully integrate and operate properties in new markets. In addition to these risks, we may not possess the same level of familiarity with the dynamics and market conditions of certain new markets that we may enter, which could adversely affect our ability to expand into those markets. We may be unable to build a significant market share or achieve a desired return on our investments in new markets. If we are unsuccessful in expanding into new markets, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to you. If we default on the ground leases to which two of our properties and a portion of a third are subject, our business could be adversely affected. Our interests in two of our properties and a portion of a third are ground leasehold interests. If we default under the terms of these leases, we may be liable for damages and could lose our leasehold interest in the property. If any of these events were to occur, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our property taxes could increase due to property tax rate changes or reassessment, which would impact our cash flows. We will be required to pay some state and local taxes on our properties. The real property taxes on our properties may increase as property tax rates change or as our properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. Therefore, the amount of property taxes we pay in the future may increase substantially and we may be unable to fully recover these increased costs from our tenants. If the property taxes we pay increase and we are unable to fully recover these increased costs form our tenants, our cash flow would be impacted, and our ability to pay expected dividends to our shareholders could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest and Certain Relationships There may be various conflicts of interest resulting from the relationships among us, our management, our Advisor and other parties. There may be conflicts of interest among us, our management, and our Advisor. These potential conflicts of interest include the following: • Certain of our affiliates are also shareholders, directors or officers of our Advisor and may, therefore, benefit from the compensation arrangements relating to our Advisor under the Advisory Agreement, which were not the result of arm’s-length negotiations. • The sole director and certain of the officers of our Advisor, and certain of the individuals that are our officers and directors, currently are engaged, and in the future will engage, in the management of other business entities and properties, resulting in a potential conflict with respect to the allocation of the time of such key personnel of our Advisor. • In the event that the sale by us of any of the Contributed Properties would be beneficial to us but would negatively impact the tax treatment of Venture, it is possible that any of our directors or officers with a financial interest in Venture may experience a conflict of interest. • In the registration rights agreement we entered into with Venture, we retained certain rights to defer registration in circumstances where such registration would be detrimental to us. It is possible that any of our directors, officers or other affiliates having a financial interest in Venture or its affiliates receiving registration rights may experience a conflict of interest in circumstances where a registration would be advantageous to such persons, but detrimental to us. • Certain entities affiliated with us hold promissory notes payable by our Operating Partnership. Those entities have rights under these promissory notes, and their exercise of these rights and pursuit of remedies may be affected by their relationship with each other. • In connection with our formation transactions, certain properties were contributed to our Operating Partnership by Venture. Some of these contributed properties were encumbered by debt or, in the case of one contributed property, which we refer to as “Clifford Center,” obligations under the ground lease. These encumbrances are secured, in part, by certain guaranty and indemnity obligations of Messrs. Shidler and Reynolds and entities wholly-owned or controlled by them, or the “Indemnitees.” Our Operating Partnership entered into certain indemnity agreements with the Indemnitees on March 19, 2008, referred to as the “Indemnity Agreements,” in order to indemnify the Indemnitees under these guaranties and indemnities. Our Operating Partnership’s specific indemnity obligations in each Indemnity Agreement are basically to defend, indemnify and hold harmless the Indemnitee from and against any and all demands, claims, causes of action, judgments, losses, costs, damages and expenses, including, attorneys’ fees and costs of litigation arising from or relating to any or all of the guaranty or indemnity obligations of the Indemnitee following formation. These conflicts may result in terms that are more favorable to our management, our Advisor and/or our Advisor’s affiliates than would have been obtained on an arm’s length basis, and may operate to the detriment of our shareholders. We are substantially controlled by Jay H. Shidler. Jay H. Shidler is the Chairman of our Board of Directors, controls Venture, and is a shareholder and the sole director of our Advisor. As part of our formation transactions, we issued to our Advisor one share of Proportionate Voting Preferred Stock, which represents that number of votes equal to the total number of shares of common stock issuable upon exchange of the Common Units and Preferred Units that we issued in connection with the formation transactions. Our Advisor has agreed to cast those votes in respect of the Proportionate Voting Preferred Stock on any matter in direct proportion to votes that are cast by limited partners of our Operating Partnership holding the Common Units and Preferred Units issued in the formation transactions. Venture holds those Common Units and 14 Table of Contents Preferred Units and is controlled by Mr. Shidler. As of December 31, 2008, that share of Proportionate Voting Preferred Stock represented approximately 93.8% of our voting power. In addition, under the Advisory Agreement, our Advisor effectively controls our operations and management and that of our Operating Partnership. Therefore, because of his position with us, Venture and our Advisor, and the additional shares of our common stock that he holds, Mr. Shidler has the ability to effectively vote 94.7% of our outstanding voting securities and has significant influence over our policies and strategy and the operations and control of our business and the business of our Operating Partnership. The interests of Mr. Shidler in these matters may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. As a result, Mr. Shidler could cause us or our Operating Partnership to take actions that our other shareholders do not support. Jay H. Shidler may compete with us and, therefore, may have conflicts of interest with us. We have entered into a Noncompetition Agreement with Jay H. Shidler, who is the Chairman of our Board of Directors. The Noncompetition Agreement for Mr. Shidler prohibits, without our prior written consent, Mr. Shidler from investing in certain office properties in any county in which we own an office property or in our targeted geographic operating region. However, this covenant not to compete will not restrict: • business conducted on our behalf; • investments in which Mr. Shidler obtained an interest prior to our formation transactions; • investments in areas in which we do not own office property at the time of such investment; • activities of First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc., Corporate Office Properties Trust and their respective affiliates; • investment opportunities considered and rejected by us; and • investments in any entity as long as Mr. Shidler does not own more than 4.9% of the entity and is not actively engaged in the management of such entity. It is therefore possible, despite the limitations imposed by his Noncompetition Agreement, that a property in which Mr. Shidler or an affiliate of Mr. Shidler has an interest may compete with us in the future if we were to invest in a property similar in type and in close proximity to that property. Risks Related to Our Status as a REIT If we fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we will be subject to taxation as a regular corporation and could face substantial tax liability. We presently intend to remain qualified as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. However, qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist, and which are subject to change, potentially with retroactive effect. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. Additionally, we did not obtain an opinion of counsel as to the continued REIT status of the surviving corporation following consummation of the Transactions. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, shareholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. Actions taken by our Operating Partnership may affect our ongoing satisfaction of these tests. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any tax year, then: • we would not be required to make distributions to our shareholders; • we would not be allowed to deduct distributions to our shareholders in computing our taxable income; • we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; and • any resulting tax liability could be substantial and could require us to borrow money or sell assets to pay such liability, and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders. Unless we were 15 Table of Contents entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the subsequent four taxable years following the year during which we lost our qualification, and thus, our cash available for distribution to shareholders would be reduced for each of the years during which we did not qualify as a REIT. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income. Any of these taxes would decrease the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may in the future hold some of our assets through taxable subsidiary corporations, which (unlike REITs) are taxed on their taxable income, whether or not distributed. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to borrow to make distributions to shareholders. As a REIT, we must generally distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income, subject to certain adjustments, to our shareholders. If we satisfy the REIT distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay to our shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our cash flow available for distribution to shareholders (for example, due to substantial non-deductible cash outlays, such as capital expenditures or principal payments on debt). If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we could be required to borrow funds, sell investments at disadvantageous prices or find alternative sources of funds to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid income and excise taxes in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our operating costs or diminish our levels of growth. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock. At any time, the federal income tax laws governing REITs, or the administrative interpretations of those laws, may be amended. Any of those new laws or interpretations may take effect retroactively and could adversely affect us or you as a shareholder. REIT dividends, with only very limited exceptions, do not qualify for preferential tax rates, which might cause shares of our common stock in non-REIT corporations to be a more attractive investment to individual investors than shares in REITs and could have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock. REIT restrictions on ownership of our common stock may delay or prevent our acquisition by a third party, even if an acquisition is in the best interests of our shareholders. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, not more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares of our common stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of any taxable year. Our Charter provides that, subject to certain exceptions, no person, including entities, may own, or be deemed to own by virtue of the attribution provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, more than 4.9% in economic value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding capital stock. While these restrictions may prevent any five individuals from owning more than 50% of the shares, they could also discourage a change in control of our company. These restrictions may also deter tender offers that may be attractive to shareholders or limit the opportunity for shareholders to receive a premium for their shares if an investor makes purchases of shares of our common stock to acquire a block of shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 16 Table of Contents 