Item 1A. Risk Factors FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, including but not limited to those set forth below, any of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Risks Related to Our Business We depend on a limited number of customers for significant portions of our net sales and if we lose business with any of these customers, our net sales could decline. For the past several years, a substantial portion of our net sales has been derived from products that have been incorporated into products that are manufactured by or on behalf of Motorola, Inc. For the years ended September 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, 57%, 82% and 81%, respectively, of our net sales were to Motorola and approximately 30, 52 and 45 of its subcontractors, respectively. Several subcontractors of Motorola also have, from time to time, constituted significant customers of ours. In addition, we also rely on sales from a limited number of other emerging customers. For example, for the three months ended September 30, 2007, 39% of our net sales were to Sony Ericsson or its subcontractors and 11% of our net sales were to Research in Motion or its subcontractors. Although generally we assist our customers in the design of their products and the customer directs its subcontractors to purchase products from us, one or more subcontractors could look to another source for the components to be incorporated into the products they supply to the customer. In addition, if the customer were to reduce its orders to any of its subcontractors or if the customer were to choose another flexible printed circuit assembly manufacturer to supply any portion of its products, it could reduce the orders that these customers place with us, which could substantially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, our net sales in fiscal year 2007 were impacted by a significant decline in net sales to Motorola, which sales decreased 33% in fiscal 2007 compared to the prior year. We must obtain orders from new and existing customers on an ongoing basis to increase our net sales and grow our business. We are continuing our efforts to reduce dependence on a limited number of customers; however, net sales attributable to a limited number of customers and their subcontractors are expected to continue to represent a substantial portion of our net sales for the foreseeable future. The loss of any one of these customers, a significant reduction in sales we make to them, a reduction in the pricing of our products sold to them or any problem collecting accounts receivable from them would reduce our net income. In addition, even if we are able to increase sales to other customers, we still expect to have a small number of customers to whom we make significant sales. We are heavily dependent upon the wireless industry, and in particular, the handset market, and any downturn in this industry may reduce our net sales. For the years ended September 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, 91%, 88% and 84%, respectively, of our net sales were derived from sales to companies that provide products or services to the wireless industry. In general, the wireless industry is subject to economic cycles and has experienced in the past, and is likely to experience in the future, periods of slowdown. Intense competition, relatively short product life cycles and significant fluctuations in product demand characterize the industry as a whole. The wireless industry also generally is subject to rapid technological change and product obsolescence. Fluctuations in demand for our products as a result of periods of slowdown in the wireless market or discontinuation of products or modifications developed in connection with next generation products could reduce our net sales. 13 Table of Contents Our customers have and may continue to cancel their orders, change production quantities, delay production or qualify additional vendors, any of which could reduce our net sales. Substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, and we are not always able to predict with certainty the timing or magnitude of these orders. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to receive any orders from our customers, and our net sales will be harmed if we are unable to obtain a sufficient number of orders from, or ship a sufficient number of products to, customers in each quarter. In addition, our customers may cancel, change or delay product purchase orders with little or no advance notice to us. Business practices of certain customers may change from sales on a purchase order basis to sales on a master purchase contract basis, which may affect the way we do business with those customers. Also, we believe customers may be increasing the number of vendors upon which they rely for manufacturing. Qualification of additional vendors for an application for which we are also qualified may result in our net sales being lower than our forecast of sales. As a result of the foregoing factors, we are not able always to forecast with certainty the net sales that we will make in a given period and sometimes we may increase our production capacity, working capital and overhead in expectation of orders that may never be placed, or, if placed, may be delayed, reduced or canceled. The following factors, among others, affect our ability to forecast accurately our net sales and production capacity: • changes in the specific products or quantities our customers order; • variability in our manufacturing yields; • long lead times and advance financial commitments for our plant and equipment expenditures; • long lead times and advance financial commitments for components required to complete anticipated customer orders; and • price reductions due to competitive pressure. Delayed, reduced or canceled orders also may result in our inability to recover costs that we incur in anticipation of those orders, such as costs associated with purchased raw materials or components, because we are often required, and in the past year, we have experienced a trend where we are more often being required, to purchase materials and components before a customer becomes contractually committed to an order in order to be able to timely deliver such order to the customer. In addition, delayed, reduced or canceled orders may result in write-offs of obsolete inventory and the underutilization of our manufacturing capacity if we decline other potential orders because we expect to use our capacity to produce orders that are later delayed, reduced or canceled. For example, in fiscal 2006, we incurred a net $3 million in write-downs as a result of the bankruptcy of one of our customers, which had a material impact on our earnings in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006 (although a certain portion of this amount was recovered in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2007). We will have difficulty selling our products if customers do not design our flexible printed circuit products into their product offerings, if our customers’ product offerings are not commercially successful, or if we do not timely execute our operational and strategic plans. We sell our flexible printed circuit products directly or indirectly to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, that include our products and component assemblies in their product offerings. As a result, we rely on OEMs to select our products to be designed into their product offerings. We must qualify our products with our customers, which involves demonstrating to our customers that our products can be manufactured within specified tolerances. This process can be time-consuming, complex, costly and difficult. If an OEM selects one of our competitors to provide a product instead of us, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products to that OEM because changing component providers after the initial production runs begin involves significant cost, time, effort and risk for the OEM. Our customers typically are not obligated to purchase products from us and can stop using our products at any time. Even if an OEM designs one of our products into its product offering, we have no assurance that the product will be commercially successful, that we will receive any order from that manufacturer or that we will not be undercut by a competitor’s pricing. We cannot be certain that our current products will continue to be selected for design into our customers’ products or that our customers will not also qualify additional vendors for their products. In addition, our long term strategy relies in part on new technologies and products. We cannot be certain that our new technology and 14 Table of Contents products will be selected by customers, especially if we are unable to obtain certain industry approval, including Underwriters Laboratory approval for the charger products we are working to develop. If we are unable to obtain additional customer qualifications, if we cannot qualify our products for high-volume production quantities, if we do not execute our operational and strategic plans for new products in a timely manner or if our customers increase their reliance on additional sources for their production, our net sales may decrease. WBL Corporation beneficially owns 60% of our outstanding common stock and is able to exert influence over us and our major corporate decisions. WBL Corporation beneficially owns 60% of our outstanding common stock. As a result of WBL Corporation’s ownership interest and its influence over the composition of our board of directors, WBL Corporation has influence over our management, operations and potential significant corporate actions. For example, so long as WBL Corporation continues to control more than a majority of our outstanding common stock, it will have the ability to control who is elected to our board of directors each year. In addition, for so long as WBL Corporation effectively owns at least one-third of our voting stock, it has the ability, through a stockholders agreement with us, to approve the appointment of any new chief executive officer or the issuance of securities that would reduce WBL Corporation’s effective ownership of us to a level that is below a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock. As defined in this stockholders agreement, WBL Corporation is deemed to effectively own approximately 56% of our current outstanding stock. Given that WBL Corporation has the ability to block any proposed issuance of shares that would reduce its effective ownership to less than a majority of our common stock, measured on an effective ownership basis, WBL Corporation could preclude us from engaging in an acquisition or other strategic opportunity that we may want to pursue if such acquisition or opportunity required the issuance of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company, which could deprive our other stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their stock as part of a sale of our company, could harm the market price of our common stock and could impede the growth of our company. To the extent that WBL Corporation beneficially owns a significant portion of our outstanding common stock, even if less than a majority, it will continue to have significant influence over all matters submitted to our stockholders. WBL Corporation is not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in us to a third party, including a participant in our industry, or from buying additional shares of our stock. WBL Corporation and its designees on our board of directors may have interests that conflict with our interests. We believe that WBL Corporation and its designees on our board of directors may have interests that conflict with, or are different from, the interests of our other stockholders, including, for example, as a result of WBL Corporation’s substantial ownership of MFS. These conflicts of interest could include potential competitive business activities, corporate opportunities, indemnity arrangements, registration rights, sales or distributions by WBL Corporation of our common stock and the exercise by WBL Corporation of its ability to influence our management and affairs. If any conflict of interest is not resolved in a manner favorable to our stockholders, our stockholders’ interests may be substantially harmed. In general, WBL Corporation does not have the ability to prevent us from making operational decisions that do not require stockholder approval; however, WBL Corporation does have the ability to control who is elected to our board of directors each year and therefore can influence decisions that require board approval. In addition, pursuant to our stockholders agreement with WBL Corporation, for so long as WBL Corporation effectively owns at least one-third of our voting stock, it has the ability to approve the appointment of any new chief executive officer or the issuance of securities that would reduce WBL Corporation’s effective ownership of us to a level that is below a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock. In general, our certificate of incorporation does not contain any provision and we do not have any other established procedure that is designed to facilitate resolution of actual or potential conflicts of interest or to ensure that potential business opportunities that may become available to both WBL Corporation and us will be reserved for or made available to us. 15 Table of Contents WBL Corporation is currently unable to vote its shares on specified matters that require stockholder approval without obtaining its own stockholders’ and regulatory approval and it is possible that WBL Corporation’s stockholders or the relevant regulators may not approve the proposed corporate action. WBL Corporation’s ordinary shares are listed on the Singapore Securities Exchange Trading Limited, or the Singapore Exchange. Under the rules of the Singapore Exchange, to the extent that we constitute a principal subsidiary of WBL Corporation, as defined by the rules of the Singapore Exchange, at any time that we submit a matter for the approval of our stockholders, WBL Corporation may be required to obtain the approval of its own stockholders for such action before it can vote its shares with respect to our proposal or dispose of our shares of common stock. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007, we were a principal subsidiary of WBL Corporation as defined by the rules of the Singapore Exchange, which state that we are deemed a principal subsidiary of WBL Corporation for any given fiscal year that our audited consolidated pre-tax profits consolidated into WBL Corporation accounts for more than 20% of the consolidated pre-tax profits of WBL Corporation during our immediately prior fiscal year. We expect to continue to be a principal subsidiary of WBL Corporation for the foreseeable future. Examples of corporate action we may seek to take for which we would need to obtain our stockholder approval include: • an amendment of our certificate of incorporation; • a sale of all or substantially all of our assets; • a merger or reorganization transaction; and • an issuance of shares of our common stock in an offering other than a public offering at a price of less than fair market value if the number of shares being sold exceeds 20% of our then outstanding common stock. To obtain stockholder approval, WBL Corporation must prepare a circular describing the proposal, obtain approval from the Singapore Exchange and send the circular to its stockholders, which may take several weeks or longer. In addition, WBL Corporation is required under its corporate rules to give its stockholders advance notice of the meeting. Consequently, if we need to obtain the approval of WBL Corporation at a time in which we qualify as a principal subsidiary (including this year), the process of seeking WBL Corporation’s stockholder approval may delay our proposed action and it is possible that WBL Corporation’s stockholders may not approve our proposed corporate action. It is also possible that we might not be able to establish a quorum at our stockholder meeting if WBL Corporation was unable to vote at the meeting as a result of the Singapore Exchange rules. The rules of the Singapore Exchange that govern WBL Corporation are subject to revision from time to time, and policy considerations may affect rule interpretation and application. It is possible that any change to or interpretation of existing or future rules may be more restrictive and adverse to us than the existing rules and interpretations. If we are unable to attract or retain personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to develop and market our products successfully could be harmed. We are heavily dependent on our current executive officers and management. We believe that our success is highly dependent on the contributions of Philip A. Harding, our chief executive officer and chairman of the board of directors, and Reza Meshgin, our president and chief operating officer. We do not have employment contracts with these or any other key personnel, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. 16 Table of Contents In addition, due to the expansion of companies into the flex market and increased competition in the flex market, we anticipate that our employees may be heavily recruited by our competitors. Furthermore, we believe an increase in the number of manufacturers in Suzhou, China and the surrounding areas has increased the competition for qualified employees and we are experiencing a significant employee turn-over rate in our facilities in China. The costs of retaining such employees, in China, and the location of certain of our facilities in the United States may make it difficult to recruit qualified employees at those facilities. The loss of any key employee or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including engineers, sales and marketing personnel, management or finance personnel could delay the development and introduction of our products, harm our reputation or otherwise damage our business. Rapidly changing standards and competing technologies could make our products obsolete, which would cause our net sales to decrease. The development and evolution of markets for our flexible printed circuit products depends on industry standards. Our products are designed to conform to current specific industry standards, such as operating temperature range. Competing standards may emerge that are preferred by our customers. We will need to make capital expenditures to support technological advances and to develop and manufacture new products and product features that our customers demand. In addition, any new product we introduce may have competing technologies available from which we may have to choose. If we choose technology or a standard that does not become the industry standard, we may be unable to sell those products or we may be unable to obtain a supplier for the raw materials for such products. We also expect future flexible printed circuits and component assembly solutions to require higher performance specifications, including, for example, higher density circuitry than we have historically produced, and to incorporate new materials and components which may impact manufacturing yields and efficiencies. We may incur higher manufacturing costs if manufacturing processes or standards change, and we may need to replace, modify or design, build and install equipment, all of which would require additional capital expenditures. If our customers were to switch to alternative technologies or adopt new or competing industry standards with which our products are not compatible or fail to adopt standards with which our products are compatible, our existing products would become less desirable to our customers and our net sales may decrease. Problems with manufacturing yields could result in higher operating costs and could impair our ability to meet customer demand for our products. If we cannot achieve expected yields in the manufacture of our products, we may incur higher per unit costs, lower profits and reduced product availability and may be subject to substantial penalties by our customers. Low yields may result from, among other things, design errors, manufacturing failures in new or existing products, the inexperience of new employees, or the learning curve experienced during the initial and ramp-up stages of a new product introduction. Any reduction in our ability to timely deliver products to customers could adversely affect our customer relationships and make it more difficult to sustain and grow our business. In addition, reduced yields can significantly harm our gross margins thereby contributing to lower profitability or even losses. Further, we have not yet manufactured camera modules in high-volume production, and we may encounter difficulties in doing so. Any such difficulties could harm our ability to sustain or grow our business. We may not be able to compete effectively, which will cause our net sales and market share to decline. On a global level, we compete primarily with large flexible printed circuit board manufacturers located throughout Asia, including Taiwan, China, Korea, Japan and Singapore. We believe the number of customers in the market is consolidating and the number of suppliers continues to increase. The competitive landscape in our market is changing rapidly and we may lose our market share if we do not implement operational improvements in response to the evolving marketplace. If we do not compete successfully, our net sales and market share may decline. We believe that one of our principal competitive advantages is our ability to interact closely with our customers throughout the design and engineering process. If we are not successful in maintaining or establishing close relationships with customers in markets in which we compete, we may not be able to grow our market share or net sales. To the extent that we are not able to provide regular interaction between our engineers and our 17 Table of Contents customers and potential customers, our business may be harmed. In some cases, our competitors may offer more favorable pricing to potential or existing customers. In addition, we believe more companies are now producing flexible printed circuit boards than before. Such competition could increase pressure on us to lower our prices, which, in turn, would harm our margins and operating results. In addition, many of our customers are larger, established electronic manufacturing services, or EMS, providers. Certain of these EMS providers have developed or acquired their own flexible printed circuit manufacturing capabilities or have extensive experience in electronics assembly, and in the future, may cease ordering products from us and may compete with us on future OEM programs. Furthermore, many companies in our target customer base are moving the design and manufacturing of their products to original design manufacturers, or ODMs, in Asia. If we are unable to capture, maintain and continue to service these ODMs as customers, we may be unable to sustain or grow our business. In addition, we sell both flex and flex assemblies to our customers, which include both EMS providers and OEMs. Even if the EMS providers aren’t able to capture a significant portion of the flex business from us, they or the OEMs could still stop ordering the flex assembly from us, or significantly reduced their assembly orders to us. If this occurs, our net sales could be significantly reduced and our net income would also be impacted. Our products and their terms of sale are subject to various pressures from our customers and our competitors, any of which could harm our gross profit. We deal with a limited number of large customers who are able to exert significant pressure on us, both in terms of pricing and contract terms. We enter into price reduction negotiations with these customers on a periodic basis, typically annually, semi-annually or quarterly. We also renegotiate the terms of our contracts, which specify, among other items, quality requirements, liability and indemnification thresholds and payment terms, with many of our customers on an annual or semi-annual basis. Due to increased competition, customers have recently exerted significant pricing pressure on us, which has contributed to a decline in our profitability. We may lose our market share if we do not participate in such negotiations; furthermore, changes in contract terms, including price reduction activities, may result in lower margins for us and the extension of payment terms for our customers, which could negatively affect our cash flow. Our selling prices are also affected by changes in overall demand for our products, changes in the specific products our customers buy, pricing of competitors’ products and our products’ life cycles. In addition, from time to time we may elect to reduce the price of certain programs we produce in order to gain additional orders on those programs. A typical life cycle for one of our products begins with higher prices when the product is introduced and decreasing prices as it matures. To offset price decreases during a product’s life cycle, we rely primarily on higher sales volume and improving our manufacturing yield and productivity to reduce a product’s cost. If we cannot reduce our manufacturing costs as prices decline during a product’s life cycle, or if we are required to pay liquidated damages to a customer due to a breach of contract claim, including due to quality or delivery issues, our cost of sales may increase, which would harm our profitability. Significant product failures could harm our reputation and our business. Continued improvement in manufacturing capabilities, quality control, material costs and successful product testing capabilities are critical to our growth. Return rates on our products may fluctuate, and we have recently experienced an increase in our return rate. Our efforts to monitor, develop, modify and implement stringent testing and manufacturing processes for our products may not be sufficient. If any flaw in the design, production, assembly or testing of our flexible printed circuit products was to occur, we may experience a rate of failure in our products that would result in significant delays in product shipments, cancellation of orders, substantial penalties from our customers and their customers, substantial repair or replacement costs and potential damage to our reputation. Any failure to maintain ongoing sales through our independent sales representatives could harm our business. To date, we have sold our products through our direct sales force and a network of non-exclusive independent sales representatives. We rely on these sales representatives to provide customer contacts and market 18 Table of Contents our products directly to our global customer base. Our sales representatives are not obligated to continue selling our products, and they may terminate their arrangements with us at any time with limited notice. It is possible that we may not be able to maintain or expand these relationships successfully or secure agreements with additional sales representatives on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any failure to develop and maintain our relationships with these sales representatives and any failure of our sales representatives to effectively market our products could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must continue to be able to procure raw materials and components on commercially reasonable terms to manufacture our products profitably. At times, there are worldwide shortages of the components and raw materials used in the fabrication of flexible printed circuits and imaging solutions. Our customers require that we use components that have been pre-qualified by them, which further limits the supply of components available to us and frequently results in our need to seek components from a limited number of suppliers. In addition, suppliers of certain of our components may consider us too small of a customer to sell to directly, which could require us to buy through distributors, which could increase the cost of such components. We generally do not maintain a large surplus stock of raw materials or components for our products because the specific assemblies are uniquely applicable to the products we produce for our customers; therefore, we rely on short-term supply contracts with third-party suppliers to provide these raw materials and components in a timely fashion and on commercially reasonable terms. Our operations would be negatively impacted if we are unable to receive raw materials or components on a timely or cost-effective basis. In addition, our operations and gross margins may be negatively impacted if materials or components do not meet our or our customers’ specifications, even if our customer had specified from whom we must purchase such materials or components. Given the rapid increase in demand for flexible printed circuits and imaging solutions, a worldwide shortage for these materials may exist from time to time. In the past, a similar shortage for flexible printed circuit materials required that we qualify an additional supplier in order to maintain the delivery of our largest production run, and during certain quarters of fiscal 2006, we experienced component shortages which resulted in delayed shipments to customers. We expect that these delays could occur in future periods, and we may not be successful in managing any shortage of raw materials or components that we may experience, which would decrease our net sales. During the year ended September 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005 we purchased greater than 80% of all materials used to make flexible printed circuits from three sources, E.I. Dupont de Nemours & Co., Mitsui Plastic, Inc. and Rogers Corporation. In the fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, we purchased approximately 29%, 53% and 84% of these materials from Dupont, 38%, 15% and 0% from Mitsui, and approximately 18%, 14% and 16% from Rogers, respectively. For many of our large customers, we now purchase components directly from the OEM. Where we do not purchase components directly from the OEM, Molex Inc. and ITT, Inc. are currently our largest component suppliers. In the fiscal year 2007, we purchased 5% and 9% of our components from Molex and ITT. In the fiscal year 2006, we purchased 10% and 24% of our components from Molex and ITT. In the fiscal year 2005, we purchased 12% and 13% of our components from Molex and ITT. We face business, political, regulatory, operational, financial and economic risks because a significant portion of our operations and sales are to customers outside of the United States. Our primary manufacturing facilities are located in China. Although our headquarters are located in California and we also have operations in Arizona, we expect that our operations in China will continue to assume a larger and more important role in our business. We are subject to risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control, including: • difficulties in obtaining domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses and compliance with foreign laws, including employment laws; 19 Table of Contents • difficulties in collecting payments from foreign customers to whom we have extended significant amounts of credit if those customers do not pay us on the payment terms extended to them; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including cultural differences in the conduct of business, labor and other workforce requirements and inadequate local infrastructure; • the need to successfully migrate our foreign locations to the financial reporting system used by us in the United States, including the need to implement and maintain financial controls that comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; • trade restrictions or higher tariffs; • transportation delays and difficulties of managing international distribution channels; • longer payment cycles for, and greater difficulty collecting, accounts receivable; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations that render our prices uncompetitive or increase our cost of doing business, specifically the Chinese RMB, which has consistently appreciated against the U.S. Dollar since the fourth quarter of our fiscal 2005. During the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the People’s Bank of China increased the rate at which the RMB/U.S. Dollar exchange can fluctuate, which resulted in greater RMB appreciation during the third and fourth quarters. We expect the RMB appreciation against the U.S. Dollar to continue to increase in the future, which will result in the increase in the cost of our business in China due to the movement in the exchange rates; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, royalties and withholding taxes that restrict the repatriation of earnings and affect our effective income tax rate due to profits generated or lost in foreign countries; • political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; • increases in the cost of doing business in China, including increases due to changes in environmental regulations, increased competition for employees and new or increased governmental fees or assessments; • requests from the government that we relocate facilities which we had planned to continue to operate for the foreseeable future, and actions from agencies controlled by the government possibly designed to compel or encourage such relocation; • unforeseen changes in regulatory requirements, including without limitation, safety, labor, health or occupational welfare regulations, which could require us to change the manner in which we do business or increase the costs of our doing business. For example, in October 2007, the minimum wage in Suzhou, China was increased from a monthly wage of RMB 750 to RMB 850 with only two weeks notice to employers; • disruptions or shortages in the supply of electricity or other utilities; • the occurrence of natural disasters or other acts of force majeure which may disrupt or otherwise impede communications between our facilities and may cause our facilities not to have access to the systems or information required to operate the business; and • public health emergencies such as SARS and avian flu. Any of these factors could harm our international sales and operations significantly. Our manufacturing capacity may be interrupted, limited or delayed if we cannot maintain sufficient sources of electricity in China, or if there is a natural disaster or other catastrophic event in China. The flexible printed circuit fabrication process requires a stable source of electricity. As our production capabilities increase in China and our business grows, our requirements for a stable source of electricity in China will grow substantially. We have experienced a lack of sufficient electricity supply and expect that we may continue to experience insufficient power supplies in the foreseeable future. Although we have purchased several 20 Table of Contents generators, we cannot be assured that such generators will produce sufficient electricity supply in the event of a disruption in power. Power interruptions, electricity shortages, the cost of diesel fuel to run our back-up generators or government intervention, particularly in the form of rationing, are factors that could restrict our access to electricity in Suzhou, China, the location of our Chinese manufacturing facilities, and affect our manufacturing costs. Any such shortages could result in delays in our shipments to our customers and, potentially, the loss of customer orders and penalties from such customers for the delay. Our two primary manufacturing facilities are both located in Suzhou, China. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events, including wildfires and other fires, earthquakes, excessive rain, terrorist attacks and wars, could disrupt our manufacturing or operational abilities, which could harm our operations and financial results. China’s legal and regulatory systems embody uncertainties that could harm our business operations. Since 1979, many new laws and regulations covering general economic matters have been promulgated in China. Despite the development of the legal system, China’s system of laws is not yet complete. Even where adequate law exists in China, enforcement of contracts based on existing law may be uncertain and sporadic, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. The relative inexperience of China’s judiciary in many cases creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation, and interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political changes. In addition, changes in the regulations or policies (or the application of existing regulations or policies) in China generally, or specifically in Suzhou where our factories are located, may affect our ability to conduct or expand our business. For example, in 2006 the Chinese government announced that the printed circuit board, or PCB, business was no longer considered to be a high-tech industry, and as such, it was no longer an encouraged industry to migrate to, or expand in, China. In addition, we have recently been informed that effective December 1, 2007, the production of single-sided flexible printed circuit boards will no longer be considered a high-tech industry. Although these classifications have not affected our operations to date, if the government were to determine that multi-layer flexible printed circuit boards are no longer within the high-tech industry classification, it could adversely affect our ability to maintain or expand operations in China. As another example, we have recently been informed that one of our facilities in China may no longer meet the current fire department regulations. If interpretations or changes in the application of the fire code resulted in our need to take immediate corrective action, it could also adversely affect our ability to maintain or expand our operations in Suzhou. Our activities in China will be subject to administrative review and approval by various national and local agencies of China’s government. Given the changes occurring in China’s legal and regulatory structure, we may not be able to secure the requisite governmental approval for our activities. Failure to obtain the requisite governmental approval for any of our activities could impede our ability to operate our business or increase our expenses. We may have difficulty managing any growth that we might experience. If we continue to experience growth in our operations, our manufacturing facilities, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls may need to be expanded, which will distract our management team from our business plan and involve increased expenses. Our success will depend substantially on the ability of our management team to manage any growth effectively. These challenges may include: • the ability to timely and in a cost-effective manner hire and retain employees, particularly in our Suzhou, China locations; • the ability of our management to predict accurately increases or decreases in demand for our products and manage our manufacturing capacity appropriately; • maintaining our cost structure at an appropriate level based on the net sales we generate; • managing multiple, concurrent manufacturing expansion projects; • the ability to ramp-up and manage multiple new programs concurrently; • higher over-time and scrap rates often associated with periods of growth; 21 Table of Contents • implementing and improving our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including our computer systems; • managing operations in multiple locations and multiple time zones; • the ability to timely and in a cost-effective manner increase our manufacturing capacity and build new manufacturing facilities in order to meet customer demands, the failure of either of which could cause customers to take their business to our competitors; and • the ability to acquire customers in a new line of business. If we do not effectively manage any growth we might experience, and deliver on any increase in orders we might receive from any customer, in addition to losing a growth opportunity, we may lose the customer and its orders all together, which could adversely affect our net sales and income. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules and regulations may increase the time and costs of certain activities. We incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses as a result of being a public company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and Nasdaq, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These rules and regulations have increased our financial compliance costs and have made some activities more time-consuming and costly. We believe that these rules and regulations have also affected the cost of our director and officer liability insurance, and, from time to time, we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We continue to evaluate and monitor developments with respect to these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Our business is capital intensive and the failure to obtain capital could require that we curtail capital expenditures. To remain competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in capital equipment, facilities and technological improvements. We expect that substantial capital will be required to expand our manufacturing capacity and fund working capital for anticipated growth. We may need to raise additional funds through further debt or equity financings. We may not be able to raise additional capital on reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, under the terms of our stockholders agreement with WBL Corporation, WBL Corporation’s approval is required for the issuance of securities that would reduce its effective ownership of us to a level that is below a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock. If WBL Corporation’s approval is required, it is possible that WBL Corporation may not approve any transaction we may seek to complete, which could affect whether we are able to complete such a transaction. If we cannot raise the required capital when needed, we may not be able to satisfy the demands of existing and prospective customers and may lose net sales and market share. The following factors could affect our ability to obtain additional capital on favorable terms, or at all: • our results of operations; • general economic conditions and conditions in the electronics industry; • the perception of our business in the capital markets; • our ratio of debt to equity; • our financial condition; • our business prospects; • WBL Corporation’s approval, if required; • the international aspects of our business, including the foreign location of a majority of our physical assets and the fact that a majority of our customers are located overseas; and 22 Table of Contents • interest rates. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital in the future, we may have to curtail our capital expenditures. Any curtailment of our capital expenditures could result in a reduction in net sales, reduced quality of our products, increased manufacturing costs for our products, harm to our reputation, reduced manufacturing efficiencies or other harm to our business. We are subject to the risk of increased income and other taxes in China. We currently enjoy tax holidays and other tax incentives for our operations in China. The tax holiday rate of 12% for our first manufacturing facility in China, MFC1, will expire on December 31, 2007. After this time, MFC1 will be subject to an income tax rate of 25%, based on current law. We have obtained two tax holidays for our second manufacturing facility in China, MFC2. The first tax holiday allows for tax-free operation for the first two years (beginning in the first year of profitability) followed by three years of operation at a reduced rate of income tax equal to 12% on the profits generated from the original registered capital. The second tax holiday allows for tax-free operation for the first two years followed by three years of operation at a reduced rate of income tax equal to 12% on the profits generated from the increased capital. Beginning on February 1, 2006, MFC2 became subject to a tax holiday rate of 12% on approximately 46% of its profits and a tax holiday rate of 0% on approximately 54% of its profits. However, these tax holidays may be challenged, modified or even eliminated by taxing authorities or changes in law. For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2007 and 2006 we realized tax savings of $1.5 million and $4.4 million respectively, for our operations in China. The National People’s Congress, China’s top legislative body, passed the Unified China Corporate Income Tax Law on March 16, 2007. The new corporate income tax rate will decrease from 27% to 25% effective January 1, 2008. Unused tax holidays for existing foreign invested enterprises will be grandfathered until they expire. MFC1’s tax holiday will expire on December 31, 2007. MFC2’s first and second tax holidays will expire on December 31, 2008 and 2010, respectively. We have analyzed the tax impact of this law change and concluded that there is no material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, from time to time we may be subject to various types of tax audits by the tax authorities. For example, an audit relating to the import and export of raw and component materials at MFC1 during fiscal year 2005 resulted in our need to incur a charge of approximately $1.5 million to cost of sales for value added tax and duty, plus interest and penalties. Our bank facilities contain restrictive covenants that, if not satisfied or waived, could impact our ability to borrow money under these facilities and could result in acceleration of our debt obligations under these facilities that may be outstanding from time to time. Our failure to comply with restrictive covenants in our bank facilities could result in an event of default which, if not satisfied or waived, could preclude us from borrowing money under one or more of these facilities or may result in us being required to repay any borrowings we may have under our facilities from time to time. In addition, our facility with Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale, or NLG, provides that NLG can refuse to honor a draw request from us for any reason, even if we are in full compliance with the terms of the facility. If we were unable to borrow under these facilities to finance our operations or we were unable to refinance borrowings under our facilities that may come due, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. If we fail to secure or protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technologies, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our net sales or increase our costs. We primarily rely on trade secrets relating to our manufacturing processes to protect our proprietary rights. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may not be effective and may be challenged by third parties. In addition, other parties may independently develop similar or competing technologies. We compete in industries 23 Table of Contents with rapid development and technological innovation. If we fail to protect our proprietary rights adequately, our competitors could offer similar products using processes or technologies developed by us and thereby potentially harm our competitive position and our financial condition. We also rely on patent protection for the intellectual property that we have developed. It is possible that a third party may challenge the validity of any of these patents, or circumvent the patents by developing competing products based on technology that does not infringe our patents. Consequently, our patents may not provide meaningful protections against competition for these products. Further, in some countries outside the United States, patent protection is not available. Moreover, some countries that do allow registration of patents do not provide meaningful redress for patent violations. As a result, protecting intellectual property in those countries is difficult and competitors may sell products in those countries that have functions and features that infringe on our intellectual property. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. From time to time, we have received, and expect to continue to receive, notices of claims of infringement, misappropriation or misuse of other parties’ proprietary rights. Some of these claims may lead to litigation. Any intellectual property lawsuit, whether or not determined in our favor or settled, could be costly, could harm our reputation and could divert our management from normal business operations. Adverse determinations in litigation could subject us to significant liability and could result in the loss of our proprietary rights. A successful lawsuit against us could also force us to cease selling or redesign products that incorporate the infringed intellectual property. In addition, we could be required to seek a license from the holder of the intellectual property to use the infringed technology, and it is possible that we may not be able to obtain a license on reasonable terms, or at all. If we fail to develop a non-infringing technology on a timely basis or to license the infringed technology on acceptable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Complying with environmental laws and regulations may increase our costs and reduce our profitability. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture, use and disposal of chemicals, solid and hazardous waste and other toxic and hazardous materials used in the manufacture of flexible printed circuits and component assemblies. A significant portion of our manufacturing operations are located in China, where we are subject to constantly evolving environmental regulation. The costs of complying with any change in such regulations and the costs of remedying potential violations or resolving enforcement actions that might be initiated by governmental entities in China could be substantial. Environmental laws require us to maintain and comply with a number of permits, authorizations and approvals and to maintain and update training programs and safety data for materials used in our manufacturing processes. We reserved $135,000 and $129,000 of restricted cash for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, at the direction of the County of Orange, California, to finance estimated environmental clean-up costs in the event that we vacate our Anaheim facilities. In the event of a violation, we may be required to halt one or more segments of our operations until such violation is cured. Although we attempt to operate in compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, we may not succeed in this effort at all times. The costs of remedying violations or resolving enforcement actions that might be initiated by governmental authorities could be substantial. Any remediation of environmental contamination would involve substantial expense that could harm our results of operations. In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our operations may be subject or the manner in which existing or future laws will be administered or interpreted. Future regulations may be applied to materials, products or activities that have not been subject to regulation previously. The costs of complying with new or more stringent regulations could be significant. 24 Table of Contents We may not address successfully problems encountered in connection with any acquisition. We expect to continue to consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other technologies, products and businesses that could enhance our capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our markets or customer base. We have limited experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies. Potential and completed acquisitions and strategic investments involve numerous risks, including: • problems assimilating the purchased technologies, products or business operations, including the timely integration of financial reporting systems. • problems maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; • start-up costs associated with any new line of business we may acquire; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering new markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; • potential litigation risks associated with acquisitions, whether completed or not; • the need to hire additional employees to operate effectively the acquired business, including employees with specialized knowledge; and • increased legal and accounting costs as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions and strategic investments properly, our management team may be distracted from our day-to-day operations, our business may be disrupted and our operating results may suffer. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders would be diluted. We also may be limited in our ability to finance an acquisition through the issuance of convertible debt or equity as a result of our stockholders agreement with WBL Corporation, which requires WBL Corporation’s approval before we issue securities which would dilute its effective ownership (as defined in the agreements) below 50% of our outstanding common stock. Litigation may distract us from operating our business. Litigation that may be brought by or against us could cause us to incur significant expenditures and distract our management from the operations and conduct of our business. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we would prevail in such litigation or resolve such litigation on terms favorable to us, which may adversely affect our operations. In connection with the terminated conditional offer for the outstanding shares of MFS Technology Ltd, we may be sued by WBL Corporation, MFS, or others, including stockholders of us and/or MFS. There is no guarantee that any such suits will be covered by our insurance or that such suits might not result in substantial fines, penalties or adverse judgments against us. In addition, the Singapore Securities Industry Council, or the SIC, may review whether the actions of our board of directors and special committee of our board of directors are, from the Singapore regulatory perspective, reasonable and appropriate in light of the developments and circumstances. Any such review, if it commences, likely will involve a significant distraction to management. Further, if the SIC determines that our board of directors or special committee have not acted appropriately, it may impose sanctions or fines or censures on us, which may further distract our management and harm our business. 25 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Market for our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and you may not be able to resell our shares at a profit or at all. The trading price of our common stock could fluctuate, and has fluctuated, due to the factors discussed in this report and elsewhere in our SEC filings. For example, during the 12 months ended September 30, 2007, our stock traded between $9.70 and $26.30 per share. In addition, the trading market for our common stock may be influenced by the public float that exists in our stock from time to time. For example, although we have approximately 24.6 million shares of common stock outstanding, approximately 19.3 million of those shares are held by a few investors. If any of those investors were to decide to sell a substantial portion of their respective shares, it would place substantial downward pressure on our stock price. The trading market for our common stock also may be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our industry. If one or more of the analysts who cover us were to publish an unfavorable research report or to downgrade our stock, our stock price likely would decline. If one or more of these analysts were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. In addition, the stock market in general, and Nasdaq and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Our historical trading prices and valuations may not be sustainable. These broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. In the event we are unable to remedy any deficiency we identify in our system of internal controls over financial reporting, or if our internal controls are not effective, our business and our stock price could suffer. In preparation for the annual report of management regarding our evaluation of our internal controls that is required to be included in each of our fiscal year-end annual reports by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, we adopted a project work plan to assess the adequacy of our internal controls, remediate any deficiency that we may identify, validate that controls are functioning as documented and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal controls. As part of this continuous process, we may discover deficiencies that require us to improve our procedures, processes and systems in order to ensure that our internal controls are adequate and effective and that we are in compliance with the requirements of Section 404. If any deficiency we may find from time to time is not adequately addressed, or if we are unable to complete all of our testing and any remediation in time for compliance with the requirements of Section 404 and the SEC rules thereunder, we would be unable to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, which could adversely affect investor confidence in our internal controls over financial reporting. If we do not complete our testing with sufficient time for an independent registered public accounting firm to complete their audit of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be compliant with all of the requirements under Section 404 since we may not receive an unqualified report on internal control over financial reporting, and our business and stock price may be adversely affected. Fluctuations in our operating results on a quarterly and annual basis could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of changes in demand for our products, our ability to sell our products at specific prices, our effectiveness in managing manufacturing processes and costs and the degree to which we are able to utilize our available manufacturing capacity. Historically, we have experienced a strong first fiscal quarter, followed by reduced net sales in the second fiscal quarter, as a result of partial seasonality of our major customers and the markets that we serve. As a result, our net sales and operating results have fluctuated significantly from period-to-period in the past and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. You should not rely on period-to- period 26 Table of Contents comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. In future periods, our net sales and results of operations may be below our expectations or the expectations of analysts and investors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our expense levels in the future will be based, in large part, on our expectations regarding net sales. Many of our expenses are fixed in the short term or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales. We may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall of sales. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. Future sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. As of September 30, 2007, we had 24.6 million shares of common stock outstanding and 1.3 million shares subject to unexercised options that are fully vested. All of these shares are eligible for resale, subject to certain volume limitations. To the extent any major stockholder sells its shares into the market, the market price of our common stock could decline. Delaware law and our corporate charter and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • the existence of a classified board of directors requiring that not all directors be elected at one time; • a majority of our directors are required to be independent; • the ability of our board of directors to increase or decrease the size of our board of directors without stockholder approval; • the ability of our board of directors to fill vacancies on the board of directors created by the death, resignation or incapacity of a director or the enlargement of the board of directors without stockholder approval; • the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting; • the ability of our board of directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; • the ability of the board of directors to issue and designate the rights of, without stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, which rights could be senior to those of common stock; • the elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to take action by written consent; and • so long as a single or related group of stockholders own at least one-third of our outstanding common stock, a transaction between us and any person or entity in which such stockholder or stockholders have a material interest, if required under applicable federal and state law and/or Nasdaq rules to be approved by our stockholders, will require approval of a majority of the outstanding shares not held by such interested stockholders present in person or by proxy at the meeting of stockholders held with respect to such transaction. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or Delaware law. These provisions may prohibit stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our charter, bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts and could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would without these provisions. 27 Table of Contents 