Item 1A. Risk Factors FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to those set forth below, any of which could cause our results to be adversely impacted and could result in a decline in the value or loss of an investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. Risks Related to Our Business We are, and have historically been, heavily dependent upon the smartphone, tablet and consumer electronics industries, and any downturn in these sectors may reduce our net sales. For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, approximately 69%, 83% and 68%, respectively, of our net sales were derived from sales to companies for products or services into our smartphone sector; approximately 27%, 13% and 1%, respectively, of our net sales derived from sales were to companies for products or services into our tablet sector; and approximately 2%, 1% and 24%, respectively, of our net sales were derived from sales to companies for products or services into our consumer electronics sector (excluding tablets). In general, these sectors are subject to economic cycles, changes in customer order patterns and periods of slowdown. Intense competition, relatively short product life cycles and significant fluctuations in product demand characterize these sectors, and these sectors are also generally subject to rapid technological change and product obsolescence. Fluctuations in demand for our products as a result of periods of slowdown in these markets (including the current economic downturn) or discontinuation of products or modifications developed in connection with next generation products could reduce our net sales. We depend on a very limited number of key customers, and a limited number of programs from those customers, for significant portions of our net sales and if we lose business with any of these customers, our net sales could decline substantially. For the past several years, a substantial portion of our net sales has been derived from products that are incorporated into products manufactured by or on behalf of a very limited number of key customers and their subcontractors, including Apple Inc. and Research in Motion Limited. In addition, a substantial portion of our sales to each customer is often tied to only one program or a small number of programs. In the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, approximately 94%, 94% and 94%, respectively, of our net sales were to only three customers in the aggregate. Approximately 74%, 44% and 43% of our net sales were to the same one customer in each of the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and approximately 90%, 86% and 85% of our net sales were to the same two customers in each of the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The loss of a major customer or a significant reduction in sales to a major customer, including due to the lack of commercial success, a product failure of a customer’s program upon which we were relying or limited flex content in a program on which we were relying, would seriously harm our business. Although we are continuing our efforts to reduce dependence on a limited number of customers, net sales attributable to a limited number of customers and their subcontractors are expected to continue to represent a substantial portion of our business for the foreseeable future. We will have difficulty selling our products if customers do not design flexible printed circuits and assemblies into their product offerings or our customers’ product offerings are not commercially successful. We sell our flexible printed circuits and assemblies directly or indirectly to OEMs, who include our flexible circuits and component assemblies in their product offerings. We must continue to design our products into our 13 Table of Contents customers’ product offerings in order to remain competitive. However, our OEM customers may decide not to design flexible printed circuits into their product offerings (or may reduce the amount of flex in a product offering), or may procure flexible printed circuits from one of our competitors. If an OEM selects one of our competitors to provide a product instead of us or switches to alternative technologies developed or manufactured by one or more of our competitors, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products to that OEM because changing component providers after the initial production runs begin involves significant cost, time, effort and risk for the OEM. Even if an OEM designs one of our products into its product offering, the product may not be commercially successful or may experience product failures, we may not receive any orders from that manufacturer, the OEM may qualify additional vendors for the product or we could be undercut by a competitor’s pricing. Additionally, if an OEM selects one or more of our competitors, they may rely upon such competitors for the life of specific offering and subsequent generations of similar offerings. Any of these events would result in fewer sales and reduced profits for us, and could adversely affect the accuracy of any forward-looking guidance we may give. Changes in the products our customers buy from us can significantly affect our capacity, net sales and profitability. We sell our flexible printed circuits and flex assemblies to a very limited number of customers, who typically purchase these products from us for numerous programs at any particular time. Customer programs differ in design and material content and our products’ prices and profitability are dependent on a wide variety of factors, including without limitation, expected volumes, assumed yields, material costs, actual yields and the amount of third-party components within the program. If we lose sales for a program that has higher material content, we may have to replace it with sales for a program that has lower material content, thus requiring additional capacity to generate the same amount of net sales. We may not have such capacity available (or it may not be economically advantageous to acquire such capacity), which could then result in lower net sales. Furthermore, if we were unable to increase our capacity to match our customers’ requests, we may lose existing business from such customer, in addition to losing future sales. In addition, if we were to utilize our capacity to increase sales of bare flex (flex without assembly), this could also generate lower net sales at potentially different (higher or lower) profitability levels. Our customers have in the past and likely will continue to cancel their orders, change production quantities, delay production or qualify additional vendors, any of which could reduce our net sales and/or increase our expenses. Substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, and we are not always able to predict with certainty the number of orders we will receive or the timing or magnitude of the orders. Our customers may cancel, change or delay product purchase orders with little or no advance notice to us, and we believe customers are doing so with increased frequency. These changes may be for a variety of reasons, including changes in their prospects, the success of their products in the market, reliance on a new vendor and the overall economic forecast. In general, we do not have long-term contractual relationships with our customers that require them to order minimum quantities of our products, and our customers may decide to use another manufacturer or discontinue ordering from us in their discretion. In addition, many of our products are shipped to hubs, and we often have limited visibility and no control as to when our customers pull the inventory from the hub. We have recently seen an increase in the use of hubs by our customers, and our hub balances have been growing. We also have increased risks with respect to inventory control and potential inventory loss, and must rely on third parties for recordkeeping when our products are shipped to a hub. As a result of these factors, we are not always able to forecast accurately the net sales that we will make in a given period. Changes in orders can also result in layoffs and associated severance costs, which in any given financial period could materially adversely affect our financial results. In addition, we are increasingly being required to purchase materials, components and equipment before a customer becomes contractually committed to an order so that we may timely deliver the expected order to the 14 Table of Contents customer. We may increase our production capacity, working capital and overhead in expectation of orders that may never be placed, or, if placed, may be delayed, reduced or canceled. As a result, we may be unable to recover costs that we incur in anticipation of orders that are never placed, such as costs associated with purchased raw materials, components or equipment. Delayed, reduced or canceled orders could also result in write-offs of obsolete inventory and the underutilization of our manufacturing capacity if we decline other potential orders because we expect to use our capacity to produce orders that are later delayed, reduced or canceled. Our industry is extremely competitive, and if we are unable to respond to competitive pressures we may lose sales and our market share could decline. We compete primarily with large flexible printed circuit board manufacturers located throughout Asia, including Taiwan, China, Korea, Japan and Singapore. We believe that the number of companies producing flexible printed circuit boards has increased materially in recent years and may continue to increase. In addition, certain former competitors are in the process of re-instituting their flexible printed circuit production which will increase competition in our market. Certain EMS providers have developed or acquired their own flexible printed circuit manufacturing capabilities or have extensive experience in electronics assembly, and in the future may cease ordering products from us or even compete with us on OEM programs. In addition, the number of customers in the market has been decreasing through consolidation and otherwise and the smartphone and tablet markets continue to become more competitive in terms of pricing. Furthermore, many companies in our target customer base may move the design and manufacturing of their products to original design manufacturers in Asia. These factors, among others, make our industry extremely competitive. If we are not successful in addressing these competitive aspects of our business, including maintaining or establishing close relationships with customers in markets in which we compete, we may not be able to grow or maintain our market share or net sales. Our products and their terms of sale are subject to various pressures from our customers, competitors and market forces, any of which could harm our gross profits. Our selling prices are affected by changes in overall demand for our products, changes in the specific products our customers buy, pricing of competitors’ products, our products’ life cycles and general economic conditions. In addition, from time to time we may elect to reduce the price of certain products we produce in order to gain additional orders on a particular program. A typical life cycle for one of our products has our selling price decrease as the program matures. To offset price decreases during a product’s life cycle, we rely primarily on higher sales volume and improving our manufacturing yield and productivity to reduce a product’s cost. If we cannot reduce our manufacturing costs as prices decline during a product’s life cycle, or if we are required to pay damages to a customer due to a breach of contract or other claim, including due to quality or delivery issues, our cost of sales may increase, which would harm our profitability and could affect our working capital levels. In addition, our key customers and their subcontractors are able to exert significant pricing pressure on us and often require us to renegotiate the terms of our arrangements with them, including increasing or removing liability and indemnification thresholds and increasing the length of payment terms, among other terms. Increases in our labor costs, especially in China where we may have little or no advance notice of such increases, changes in contract terms and regular price reductions have historically resulted in lower gross margins for us and may continue to do so in future periods. Furthermore, our competitive position is dependent upon the yields and quality we are able to achieve on our products and our level of automation as compared to our competitors. These trends and factors may harm our business and make it more difficult to compete effectively. Significant product failures or safety concerns about our or our customers’ products could harm our reputation and our business. Continued improvement in manufacturing capabilities, quality control, material costs and successful product testing capabilities are critical to our growth. Our efforts to monitor, develop, modify and implement stringent testing and manufacturing processes for our products may not be sufficient. If any flaw in the design, production, 15 Table of Contents assembly or testing of our or our customers’ products were to occur or if our, or our customers’, products were believed to be unsafe, it could result in significant delays in product shipments by, or cancellation of orders or, substantial penalties from, our customers and their customers, substantial refund, recall, repair or replacement costs, an increased return rate for our products, potential damage to our reputation, or potential lawsuits which could prove to be time consuming and costly. Recent pronouncements by the World Health Organization listing mobile phone use as possibly carcinogenic may affect our customers’ sales and in turn affect our sales to our customers. Because we normally provide a warranty for our products, a significant claim for damages related to a breach of warranty could materially affect our financial results. Problems with manufacturing yields and/or our inability to ramp up production could impair our ability to meet customer demand for our products. We could experience low manufacturing yields due to, among other things, design errors, manufacturing failures in new or existing products, the inexperience of new employees, component defects, or the learning curve experienced during the initial and ramp up stages of new product introduction. If we cannot achieve expected yields in the manufacture of our products, this could result in higher operating costs, which could result in higher per unit costs, reduced product availability and may subject us to substantial penalties by our customers. Reduced yields or an inability to successfully ramp up products can significantly harm our gross margins, resulting in lower profitability or even losses. In addition, if we were unable to ramp up our production in order to meet customer demand, whether due to yield or other issues, it would impair our ability to meet customer demand for our products, and our net sales and profitability would be negatively affected. We must develop and adopt new technology and manufacture new products and product features in order to remain competitive, and we may not be able to do so successfully. Our long-term strategy relies in part on timely adopting, developing and manufacturing technological advances and new products and product features to meet our customers’ needs, including advanced technologies such as high density interconnect. However, any new technology and products adopted or developed by us may not be selected by existing or potential customers. Our customers could decide to switch to alternative technologies or materials, adopt new or competing industry standards with which our products are incompatible or fail to adopt standards with which our products are compatible. If we choose to focus on new technology or a standard that is ultimately not accepted by the industry and/or does not become the industry standard, we may be unable to sell those products. If we are unable to obtain customer qualifications for new products or product features, cannot qualify our products for high-volume production quantities or do not execute our operational and strategic plans for new products or advanced technologies in a timely manner, our net sales may decrease. In addition, we may incur higher manufacturing costs in connection with new technology, materials, products or product features, as we may be required to replace, modify, design, build and install equipment, all of which would require additional capital expenditures. We must continue to be able to procure raw materials and components on commercially reasonable terms to manufacture our products profitably. Generally we do not maintain a large surplus stock of raw materials or components for our products because the specific assemblies are uniquely applicable to the products we produce for our customers; therefore, we rely on third-party suppliers to provide these raw materials and components in a timely fashion and on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, we are often required by our customers to seek components from a limited number of suppliers that have been pre-qualified by the customer. We, or our customers, may not be able to obtain the components or flex materials that are required for our customers’ programs, which in turn could forestall, delay, or halt our production or our customer’s programs. We expect that delays may occur in future periods for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, natural disasters. Furthermore, the supply of certain precious metals required for our products is limited, and our suppliers could lose their export or import licenses on materials we require, any of which could limit or halt our ability to manufacture our products. We may not be 16 Table of Contents successful in managing any shortage of raw materials or components that we may experience in the future, which could adversely affect our relationships with our customers and result in a decrease in our net sales. Component shortages could also increase our cost of goods sold because we may be required to pay higher prices for components in short supply. In addition, suppliers could go out of business, discontinue the supply of key materials, or consider us too small of a customer to sell to directly, and could require us to buy through distributors, increasing the cost of such components to us. Our manufacturing and shipping costs may also be impacted by fluctuations in the cost of oil and gas. Any fluctuations in the supply or prices of these commodities could have an adverse effect on our profit margins and financial condition. If we are unable to attract or retain personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to develop and market our products successfully could be harmed. We believe that our success is highly dependent on our current executive officers and management team. We do not have an employment contract with Reza Meshgin, our president and chief executive officer, or any of our other key personnel, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. The loss of any key employee or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including engineers, sales and marketing personnel, management or finance personnel could delay the development and introduction of our products, harm our reputation or otherwise damage our business. Furthermore, we have experienced very high employee turnover in our facilities in China, and are experiencing increased difficulty in recruiting employees for these facilities. In addition, we are noting the signs of wage inflation, labor unrest and increased unionization in China and expect these to be ongoing trends for the foreseeable future, which could cause employee issues, including work stoppages, excessive wage increases and increased activity of labor unions, at our China facilities. A large number of our employees work in our facilities in China, and our costs associated with hiring and retaining these employees have increased over the past several years. The high turnover rate, increasing wages, our difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified employees and the other labor trends we are noting in China have resulted in an increase in our employee expenses and a continuation of any of these trends could result in even higher costs or production disruptions or delays or the inability to ramp up production to meet increased customer orders, resulting in order cancellation, imposition of customer penalties if we were unable to timely deliver product or a negative impact on net sales and profits for us. Our manufacturing capacity may be interrupted, limited or delayed if we cannot maintain sufficient sources of electricity in China. The flexible printed circuit fabrication process requires a stable source of electricity. As our production capabilities increase in China and our business grows, our requirements for a stable source of electricity in China will grow substantially. We have periodically experienced and expect to continue to experience insufficient supplies of electrical power from time to time, especially during the warmer summer months in China. In addition, China has recently instituted energy conservation regulations which ration the amount of electricity that may be used by enterprises such as ours. Although we have purchased several generators, such generators do not produce sufficient electricity supply to run our manufacturing facilities and they are costly to operate. Power interruptions, electricity shortages, the cost of diesel fuel to run our back-up generators or government intervention, particularly in the form of rationing, are factors that could restrict our access to electricity at our Chinese manufacturing facilities, and affect our ability to manufacture and related costs. Any such shortages could result in delays in our shipments to our customers and, potentially, the loss of customer orders and penalties from such customers for the delay. Our global operations expose us to additional risk and uncertainties. We have operations in a number of countries, including the United States, China, Korea, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and Singapore. Our global operations may be subject to risks that may limit our ability to operate our 17 Table of Contents business. We manufacture the bulk of our products in China and sell our products globally, which exposes us to a number of risks that can arise from international trade transactions, local business practices and cultural considerations, including: • political unrest, terrorism and economic or financial instability; • restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and uncertainty related to developing legal and regulatory systems related to economic and business activities, real property ownership and application of contract rights; • nationalization programs that may be implemented by foreign governments; • import-export regulations; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables; • difficulties in ensuring compliance with the laws and regulations of multiple jurisdictions, including complying with local employment and overtime regulations, which regulations could affect our ability to quickly ramp production ; • difficulties in ensuring that health, safety, environmental and other working conditions are properly implemented and/or maintained by the local office; • changes in labor practices, including wage inflation, frequent and extremely high increases in the minimum wage, labor unrest and unionization policies; • limited intellectual property protection; • longer payment cycles by international customers; • currency exchange fluctuations; • inadequate local infrastructure and disruptions of service from utilities or telecommunications providers, including electricity shortages; • transportation delays and difficulties in managing international distribution channels; • difficulties in staffing foreign subsidiaries and in managing an expatriate workforce; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • differing employment practices and labor issues; • the occurrence of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods or other acts of force majeure; and • public health emergencies such as SARS, avian flu and Swine flu. We also face risks associated with currency exchange and convertibility, inflation and repatriation of earnings as a result of our foreign operations. In some countries, economic, monetary and regulatory factors could affect our ability to convert funds to U.S. dollars or move funds from accounts in these countries. We are also vulnerable to appreciation or depreciation of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar. Although we have significant operations in Asia, a substantial portion of transactions are denominated in U.S. dollars, including approximately 97% of the total shipments made to foreign manufacturers during the fiscal year 2012. The balance of our net sales is denominated in Chinese Renminbi (“RMB”). As a result, as appreciation against the U.S. dollar increases, it will result in an increase in the cost of our business expenses in China. Further, downward fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may make our products less price competitive than local solutions. From time to time, we may engage in currency hedging activities, but such activities may not be able to limit the impact or risks of currency fluctuations. In addition, our activities in China are subject to administrative review and approval by various national and local agencies of China’s government. Given the changes occurring in China’s legal and regulatory structure, we 18 Table of Contents may not be able to secure required governmental approval for our activities or facilities or the government may not apply real property or contract rights in the same manner as one may expect in other jurisdictions. During last year, the earthquake, tsunami and subsequent problems affecting nuclear power plants in Japan have dramatically impacted Japan’s manufacturing capacity. Japanese industry supplies a significant portion of certain items essential to the flexible circuit board manufacturing process and may be adversely affected by these issues. As a result, our ability to produce and deliver products to our customers could be adversely affected. In addition, shortages of key items may result in price increases, which our suppliers may seek to pass on to us. This could also affect our profitability. From time to time, we increase our manufacturing capacity, and we may have difficulty managing these changes. From time to time, we engage in a number of manufacturing expansion projects. In addition, we have been engaged in an international restructuring effort to first transition and then expand various business functions to our offices in Singapore, in order to better align these activities with our international operations and to transition certain production and process research and development to China in continuation of our cost reduction efforts. These efforts require significant investment by us, and have in the past and could continue to result in increased expenses and inefficiencies and reduced gross margins. Our management team may have difficulty managing our manufacturing expansion and transition projects or otherwise managing any growth in our business that we may experience. Risks associated with managing expansion and growth may include those related to: • managing multiple, concurrent major manufacturing expansion projects; • hiring and retaining employees, particularly in China; • accurately predicting any increases or decreases in demand for our products and managing our manufacturing capacity appropriately; • under-utilized capacity, particularly during the start-up phase of a new manufacturing facility and the effects on our gross margin of under-utilization; • managing increased employment costs and scrap rates often associated with periods of growth; • implementing, integrating and improving operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including our computer systems; • construction delays, equipment delays or shortages, labor shortages and disputes and production start-up problems; • cost overruns and charges related to our expansion activities; and • managing expanding operations in multiple locations and multiple time zones. Our management team may not be effective in expanding our manufacturing facilities and operations, and our systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support such expansion. Any inability to manage our growth may harm our profitability and growth. If we encounter problems during the expansion and continuing expanded use of our operations management and information systems, we could experience a disruption of our operations and unanticipated increases in our costs. We are in the process of expanding our information systems for certain of our China facilities. Any problems encountered in the expansion of these systems and continued use and reliance on such systems could result in material adverse consequences, including disruption of operations, loss of information and unanticipated increases in costs. 19 Table of Contents WBL Corporation Limited beneficially owns approximately 62% of our outstanding common stock and is able to exert influence over us and our major corporate decisions. WBL Corporation Limited, together with its affiliates and subsidiaries (“WBL”) beneficially owns approximately 62% of our outstanding common stock. As a result of this ownership interest and the resulting influence over the composition of our board of directors, WBL has influence over our management, operations and potential significant corporate actions. WBL’s board or executive management composition could change, and such change could affect the way WBL influences our corporate actions. For example, so long as WBL continues to control more than a majority of our outstanding common stock, it will have the ability to control who is elected to our board of directors each year. In addition, for so long as WBL effectively owns at least one-third of our voting stock, it has the ability, through a stockholders’ agreement with us, to approve the appointment of any chief executive officer or the issuance of securities that would reduce WBL’s effective ownership of us to a level that is below a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock, as determined on a fully diluted basis. As a result, WBL could preclude us from engaging in an acquisition or other strategic opportunity that we may want to pursue if such acquisition or opportunity required the issuance of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company, which could deprive our other stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their stock as part of a sale of our company, could harm the market price of our common stock and could impede the growth of our company. WBL could also sell a controlling interest in us, or a portion of their shares, to a third party, including a participant in our industry, which could adversely affect our operations or our stock price. WBL and its representatives on our board of directors may have interests that conflict with, or are different from, the interests of our other stockholders. These conflicts of interest could include potential competitive business activities, corporate opportunities, indemnity arrangements, debt covenants, sales or distributions by WBL of our common stock and the exercise by WBL of its ability to influence our management and affairs. In general, our certificate of incorporation does not contain any provision that is designed to facilitate resolution of actual or potential conflicts of interest. If any conflict of interest is not resolved in a manner favorable to our stockholders, it could adversely affect our operations and our stockholders’ interests may be substantially harmed. WBL is currently unable to vote its shares on specified matters that require stockholder approval without obtaining its own stockholders’ and regulatory approval and it is possible that WBL’s stockholders or the relevant regulators may not approve the proposed corporate action. WBL’s ordinary shares are listed on the Singapore Securities Exchange Trading Limited (the “Singapore Exchange”). Under the rules of the Singapore Exchange, to the extent that we constitute a principal subsidiary of WBL as defined by the rules of the Singapore Exchange at any time that we submit a matter for the approval of our stockholders, WBL may be required to obtain the approval of its own stockholders for such action before it can vote its shares with respect to our proposal or dispose of our shares of common stock. Examples of corporate actions we may seek to take that may require WBL to obtain its stockholders’ approval include an amendment of our certificate of incorporation, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets, a merger or reorganization transaction, and certain issuances of our capital stock. To obtain stockholder approval, WBL must prepare a circular describing the proposal, obtain approval from the Singapore Exchange and send the circular to its stockholders, which may take several weeks or longer. In addition, WBL is required under its corporate rules to give its stockholders advance notice of the meeting. Consequently, if we need to obtain the approval of WBL at a time in which we qualify as a principal subsidiary (including this year), the process of seeking WBL’s stockholder approval may delay our proposed action and it is possible that WBL’s stockholders may not approve our proposed corporate action. It is also possible that we might not be able to establish a quorum at our stockholder meeting if WBL was unable to vote at the meeting as a result of the Singapore Exchange rules. The rules of the Singapore Exchange that govern WBL are subject to revision from time to time, and policy considerations may affect rule interpretation and application. It is possible that any change to or interpretation of existing or future rules may be more restrictive and complex than the existing rules and interpretations. 20 Table of Contents Our business requires significant investments in capital equipment, facilities and technological improvements, and we may not be able to obtain sufficient funds to make such capital expenditures. To remain competitive we must continue to make significant investments in capital equipment, facilities and technological improvements. We expect that substantial capital will be required to expand our manufacturing capacity and fund working capital requirements for our anticipated growth. In addition, we expect that new technology requirements may increase the capital intensity of our business. We may need to raise additional funds through further debt or equity financings in order to fund our anticipated growth and capital expenditures, and we may not be able to raise additional capital on reasonable terms, or at all, particularly given the current uncertainty in global credit markets. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital in the future, we may have to curtail our capital expenditures. Any curtailment of our capital expenditures could result in a reduction in net sales, reduced quality of our products, increased manufacturing costs for our products, harm to our reputation, reduced manufacturing efficiencies or other harm to our business. In addition, WBL’s approval is required for the issuance of securities that would reduce its effective ownership of us to below a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock as determined on a fully diluted basis. If WBL’s approval is required for a proposed financing, it is possible that it may not approve the financing and we may not be able to complete the transaction, which could make it more difficult to obtain sufficient funds to operate and expand our business. The uncertainty regarding the status of the global credit market and overall global economic stagnation may adversely affect our earnings, liquidity and financial condition. In recent years, global financial and credit markets have been, and continue to be, unstable and unpredictable. In addition, worldwide economic conditions have been weak and have had an effect on consumer spending. The instability of the markets and weakness of the economy could affect the demand for our customers’ products, the amount, timing and stability of their orders to us, the financial strength of our customers and suppliers, their ability or willingness to do business with us, our willingness to do business with them, interest rates, and/or our suppliers’ and customers’ ability to fulfill their obligations to us. These factors could adversely affect our operations, earnings and financial condition. Tax positions we have taken may be challenged and we are subject to the risk of changing income tax rates and laws. From time to time, we may be subject to various types of tax audits, during which tax positions we have taken may be challenged and overturned. If this were to occur, our tax rates could significantly increase and we may be required to pay significant back taxes, interests and/or penalties. For example, on August 1, 2012, we received a Revenue Agent Report (the “Report”) from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) relating to its examination of our income tax returns for fiscal years 2007 and 2008. In the Report, the IRS proposed adjustments primarily related to our valuation of intellectual property and intercompany cost sharing arrangement. The proposed adjustments would result in approximately $120 million of additional taxable income for those two years. Management believes there are numerous errors in the Report, does not agree with the proposed adjustments and has vigorously contested the proposed adjustments. After reviewing the Report, management continues to believe that an adequate provision has been made for all of our uncertain tax positions. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in our tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with management’s expectations, we could be required to adjust our provision for income tax in the period such resolution occurs. Any significant proposed adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position if not resolved favorably. In addition, a change in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation, of any country in which we operate could result in a higher tax rate. For example, there has been increased scrutiny by the U.S. government on tax positions taken and in February 2011, the United States Department of the Treasury issued a high-level outline of proposed modifications to international tax laws for fiscal year 2012. If any of these, or similar, proposals are passed, our statements of financial position and results of operations could be negatively impacted. 21 Table of Contents Also, a number of countries in which we are located allow for tax holidays or provide other tax incentives to attract and retain business. For example, we currently enjoy tax incentives for our facility in Singapore. However, any tax holiday or incentive we have could be challenged, modified or even eliminated by taxing authorities or changes in law. In addition, the tax laws and rates in certain jurisdictions in which we operate (China, for example) can change with little or no notice, and any such change may even apply retroactively. Any of such changes could adversely affect our effective tax rate. If we fail to secure or protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technologies, which could weaken our competitive position and harm our business. We rely primarily on trade secrets and confidentiality procedures relating to our manufacturing processes to protect our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts, these measures can only provide limited protection. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. If we fail to protect our proprietary rights adequately, our competitors could offer similar products using processes or technologies developed by us, potentially harming our competitive position. In addition, other parties may independently develop similar or competing technologies. We also rely on patent protection for some of our intellectual property. Our patents may be expensive to obtain and there is no guarantee that either our current or future patents will provide us with any competitive advantages. A third party may challenge the validity of our patents, or circumvent our patents by developing competing products based on technology that does not infringe our patents. Further, patent protection is not available at all in certain countries and some countries that do allow registration of patents do not provide meaningful redress for patent violations. As a result, protecting intellectual property in those countries is difficult, and competitors could sell products in those countries that have functions and features that would otherwise infringe on our intellectual property. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors may gain access to our technology and our business may be harmed. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. From time to time, we have received, and expect to continue to receive, notices of claims of infringement, misappropriation or misuse of other parties’ proprietary rights. We could also be subject to claims arising from the allocation of intellectual property rights among us and our customers. Any claims brought against us or our customers, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle, and could divert management attention away from our business plan. Adverse determinations in litigation could subject us to significant liability and could result in the loss of our proprietary rights. A successful lawsuit against us could also force us to cease selling or require us to redesign any products or marks that incorporate the infringed intellectual property. In addition, we could be required to seek a license from the holder of the intellectual property to use the infringed technology, and it is possible that we may not be able to obtain a license on reasonable terms, or at all. If we fail to develop a non-infringing technology on a timely basis or to license the infringed technology on acceptable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Complying with environmental laws and regulations or the environmental policies of our customers may increase our costs and reduce our profitability. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture, use and disposal of chemicals, solid and hazardous waste and other toxic and hazardous materials used in the manufacture of flexible printed circuits and component assemblies in our facilities in the United States, Europe and Asia. In addition, certain of our customers have, or may in the future, have environmental policies with which we are required to comply that are more stringent than applicable laws and regulations. A significant portion of our manufacturing operations are located in China, where we are 22 Table of Contents subject to constantly evolving environmental regulation. The costs of complying with any change in such regulations or customer policies and the costs of remedying potential violations or resolving enforcement actions that might be initiated by governmental entities could be substantial. In the event of a violation, we may be required to halt one or more segments of our operations until such violation is cured or we may be fined by a customer. The costs of remedying violations or resolving enforcement actions that might be initiated by governmental authorities could be substantial. Any remediation of environmental contamination would involve substantial expense that could harm our results of operations. In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory or customer requirements to which our operations may be subject or the manner in which existing or future laws or customer policies will be administered or interpreted. Future regulations may be applied to materials, products or activities that have not been subject to regulation previously. The costs of complying with new or more stringent regulations or policies could be significant. Compliance with new regulations and customer demands regarding “conflict minerals” could significantly increase costs and affect the manufacturing and sale of our products. Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2012 (the Dodd-Frank Act), required the SEC to establish new disclosure and reporting requirements regarding specified minerals originating in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or an adjoining country that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured by companies required to file reports with the SEC. The final rules implementing these requirements, as released recently by the SEC could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of minerals used in the manufacture of our products. In addition, there will be costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of such minerals used in our products. Also, because our supply chain is complex, we may face commercial challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all metals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement and otherwise may become obliged to publicly disclose those efforts with regard to conflict minerals. Moreover, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict free which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so. Potential future acquisitions or strategic partnerships could be difficult to integrate, divert the attention of key management personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we intend to continue to consider acquisitions of, or partnerships with, companies, technologies and products that we feel could enhance our capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our markets or customer base. We have limited experience in acquiring or partnering with other businesses and technologies. Potential and completed acquisitions and strategic partnerships involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, accounting and personnel; • problems maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies; • difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers of our acquired companies; • diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; • potential costs incurred in executing on such a transaction, including any necessary debt or equity financing; • risks associated with entering new markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • potential loss of key employees; and • inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset acquisition or start-up costs. 23 Table of Contents Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could affect the market price of our stock. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or partnerships, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions or partnerships, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. We face potential risks associated with loss, theft or damage of our property or property of our customers. Some of our customers have entrusted us with proprietary equipment or intellectual property to be used in the design, manufacture and testing of the products we make for them. In some instances, we face potentially millions of dollars in financial exposure to those customers if such equipment or intellectual property is lost, damaged or stolen. Although we take precautions against such loss, theft or damage and we may insure against a portion of these risks, such insurance is expensive, may not be applicable to any loss we may experience and, even if applicable, may not be sufficient to cover any such loss. Further, deductibles for such insurance may be substantial and may adversely affect our operations if we were to experience a loss, even if insured. Litigation may distract us from operating our business. Litigation that may be brought by or against us could cause us to incur significant expenditures and distract our management from the operations and conduct of our business. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we would prevail in such litigation or resolve such litigation on terms favorable to us, which may adversely affect our operations. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. This effort is made more challenging by our significant overseas operations. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our operating results could be misstated, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting and the trading price of our stock could be negatively affected. There can be no assurance that our internal controls over financial processes and reporting will be effective in the future. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock is volatile. The trading prices of the securities of technology companies, including the trading price of our common stock, have historically been highly volatile. During the twelve month period from October 1, 2011 through September 30, 2012, our common stock price closed between $19.06 and $29.51 per share. Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock include, but are not limited to: • fluctuations in our financial results; • the limited size of our public float; • announcements of technological innovations or events affecting companies in our industry; • changes in the estimates of our financial results; • changes in the recommendations of any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; and • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole. In addition, although we have approximately 23.8 million shares of common stock outstanding as of September 30, 2012, approximately 14.8 million of those shares are held by WBL. As a result, there is a limited public float in our common stock. If any of our significant stockholders were to decide to sell a substantial portion of its shares the trading price of our common stock could decline. 24 Table of Contents Delaware law and our corporate charter and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management including, among other things, provisions providing for a classified board of directors, authorizing the board of directors to issue preferred stock and the elimination of stockholder voting by written consent. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may discourage, delay or prevent certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions in our charter, bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage delay or prevent potential takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. 25 Table of Contents 