Item 1A. Risk Factors FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, including but not limited to those set forth below, any of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. These risk factors supersede in their entirety any prior version contain in our filings with the SEC, other than the risks relating to MFS as set forth in our registration statement on Form S-4. Risks Related to Our Business We depend on Motorola and subcontractors of Motorola for a significant portion of our net sales and if we lose these relationships, our net sales would decline. For the past several years, a substantial portion of our net sales has been derived from products that have been incorporated into products that are manufactured by or on behalf of Motorola, Inc. For the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, 82%, 81% and 80%, respectively, of our net sales were to Motorola and approximately 52, 45 and 40 of its subcontractors, respectively. Several subcontractors of Motorola also constitute significant customers of ours. For the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, sales of our products to Hosiden F.D. Corporation and its affiliates and Optrex Corporation Japan and its affiliates accounted for 2% and 1%, 4% and 2% and 11% and 10% of our net sales, respectively. Although generally we assist Motorola in the design of products and Motorola directs subcontractors to purchase products from us, one or more subcontractors could look to another source for the components to be incorporated into the products they supply to Motorola. In addition, if Motorola were to reduce its orders to any of these customers or if Motorola were to choose another flexible printed circuit assembly manufacturer to supply any portion of its products, it could reduce the orders that these customers place with us, which could substantially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must obtain orders from new and existing customers on an ongoing basis to increase our net sales and grow our business. We are continuing our efforts to reduce dependence on a limited number of customers; however, net sales attributable to Motorola and its subcontractors are expected to continue to represent a substantial portion of our net sales for the foreseeable future. The loss of Motorola and its subcontractors, a significant reduction in sales we make to them, a reduction in the pricing of our products sold to them or any problem collecting accounts receivable from them would reduce our net income. We are heavily dependent upon the wireless telecommunications industry, and any downturn in the industry may reduce our net sales. For the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, 88%, 84% and 83%, respectively, of our net sales were derived from sales to companies that provide products or services to the wireless telecommunications industry. In general, the wireless telecommunications industry is subject to economic cycles and has experienced in the past, and is likely to experience in the future, periods of slowdown. Intense competition, relatively short product life cycles and significant fluctuations in product demand characterize the industry as a whole. The wireless telecommunications industry also generally is subject to rapid technological change and product obsolescence. Fluctuations in demand for our products as a result of periods of slowdown in the telecommunications market or discontinuation of products or modifications developed in connection with next generation products could reduce our net sales. 13 Table of Contents Our customers have and may continue to cancel their orders, change production quantities, delay production or qualify additional vendors, any of which could reduce our net sales. Substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, and we are not always able to predict with certainty the timing or magnitude of these orders. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to receive any order from our customers, and our net sales will be harmed if we are unable to obtain and ship a sufficient number of orders from customers in each quarter. In addition, our customers may cancel, change or delay product purchase orders with little or no advance notice to us. Business practices of certain customers may change from sales on a purchase order basis to sales on a master purchase contract basis, which may affect the way we do business with those customers. Also, we believe customers may be increasing the number of vendors upon which they rely for manufacturing. Qualification of additional vendors for an application for which we are also qualified may cause our forecast of sales to be higher than actual net sales. As a result of the foregoing factors, we are not able always to forecast with certainty the net sales that we will make in a given period and sometimes we may increase our production capacity, working capital and overhead in expectation of orders that may never be placed, or, if placed, may be delayed, reduced or canceled. The following factors, among others, affect our ability to forecast accurately our net sales and production capacity: • changes in the specific products or quantities our customers order; • variability in our manufacturing yields; • long lead times and advance financial commitments for our plant and equipment expenditures; • long lead times and advance financial commitments for components required to complete anticipated customer orders; and • price reductions due to competitive pressure. Delayed, reduced or canceled orders also may result in our inability to recover costs that we incur in anticipation of those orders, such as costs associated with purchased raw materials or components, since we are often required to purchase materials and components before a customer becomes contractually committed to an order in order to be able to timely deliver such order to the customer. In addition, delayed, reduced or canceled orders may result in write-offs of obsolete inventory and the underutilization of our manufacturing capacity if we decline other potential orders because we expect to use our capacity to produce orders that are later delayed, reduced or canceled. For example, we recently incurred $3 million in write-downs and reserves as a result of the bankruptcy of one of our customers, which had a material impact on our earnings in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. We will have difficulty selling our products if customers do not design our flexible printed circuit products into their product offerings, if our customers’ product offerings are not commercially successful, or if we do not timely execute our operational and strategic plans. We sell our flexible printed circuit products directly or indirectly to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, that include our products and component assemblies in their product offerings. As a result, we rely on OEMs to select our products to be designed into their product offerings. We must qualify our products with our customers, which involves demonstrating to our customers that our products can be manufactured within specified tolerances. This process can be time-consuming, complex, costly and difficult. If an OEM selects one of our competitors to provide a product instead of us, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products to that OEM because changing component providers after the initial production runs begin involves significant cost, time, effort and risk for the OEM. Our customers typically are not obligated to purchase products from us and can stop using our products at any time. Even if an OEM designs one of our products into its product offering, we have no assurance that the product will be commercially successful, that we will receive any order from that manufacturer or that we will not be undercut by a competitor’s pricing. 14 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that our current products will continue to be selected for design into our customers’ products or that our customers will not also qualify additional vendors for their products. In addition, our long term strategy relies in part on new technologies and products. We cannot be certain that our new technology and products will be selected by customers, especially if we are unable to obtain certain industry approval, including Underwriters Laboratory approval for our charger products, on a timely basis. If we are unable to obtain additional customer qualifications, if we cannot qualify our products for high-volume production quantities, if we do not execute our operational and strategic plans for new products in a timely manner or if our customers increase their reliance on additional sources for their production, our net sales may decrease. WBL Corporation beneficially owns 61% of our outstanding common stock and is able to exert influence over us and our major corporate decisions. WBL Corporation beneficially owns 61% of our outstanding common stock. As a result of WBL Corporation’s ownership interest and its influence over the composition of our board of directors, WBL Corporation has influence over our management, operations and potential significant corporate actions. For example, so long as WBL Corporation continues to control more than a majority of our outstanding common stock, it will have the ability to control who is elected to our board of directors each year. In addition, for so long as WBL Corporation effectively owns at least one-third of our voting stock, it has the ability, through a stockholders agreement with us, to approve the appointment of any new chief executive officer or the issuance of securities that would reduce WBL Corporation’s effective ownership of us to a level that is below a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock. As defined in this stockholders agreement, WBL Corporation is deemed to effectively own approximately 56% of our current outstanding stock. Given that WBL Corporation has the ability to block any proposed issuance of shares that would reduce its effective ownership to less than majority of our common stock, measured on an effective ownership basis, WBL Corporation could preclude us from engaging in an acquisition or other strategic opportunity that we may want to pursue if such acquisition or opportunity required issuance of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company, which could deprive our other stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their stock as part of a sale of our company, could harm the market price of our common stock and could impede the growth of our company. To the extent that WBL Corporation beneficially owns a significant portion of our outstanding common stock, even if less than a majority, it will continue to have significant influence over all matters submitted to our stockholders. WBL Corporation is not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in us to a third party, including a participant in our industry, or from buying additional shares of our stock. WBL Corporation and its designees on our board of directors may have interests that conflict with our interests. We believe that WBL Corporation and its designees on our board of directors may have interests that conflict with, or are different from, the interests of our other stockholders, including, for example, as a result of WBL Corporation’s substantial ownership of MFS. WBL Corporation has indicated that it remains bound to us and MFS under the undertaking agreement it entered into in connection with our proposed offer to acquire the issued and outstanding ordinary shares of MFS (the “Offer”). Although we offered to release WBL Corporation from its obligation to vote for the Offer under the WBL Corporation undertaking agreement, MFS has declined to offer WBL Corporation a similar release. Consequently, on October 17, 2006, we filed suit in Chancery Court of the State of Delaware in and for New Castle County against WBL Corporation and certain of its affiliates asserting claims for declaratory and injunctive relief that arises from the undertaking agreement signed by WBL Corporation, to which both us and MFS are beneficiaries, in which WBL Corporation agreed to vote its shares of us in favor of the Offer. The complaint asserts that declaratory and injunctive relief is necessary to prevent WBL Corporation from taking action which we believe to be in breach of its fiduciary duties as a controlling stockholder of us that will harm us and our minority stockholders and seeks to require WBL Corporation to vote against the Offer. 15 Table of Contents On November 2, 2006, the Stark hedge funds filed suit in the Chancery Court of the State of Delaware in and for New Castle County against us, the Special Committee of our board of directors (“Special Committee”) and Philip A. Harding (the chairman of our board of directors) asserting claims for declaratory and injunctive relief, as well as damages. The complaint, among other things, alleges the defendants have breached their fiduciary duties by interfering with our stockholder vote on the Offer and seeks to enjoin the defendants from taking any action that would compel any of our stockholders to vote either for or against the Offer. The cases in Delaware Chancery Court involving the Stark hedge funds and WBL Corporation have been set for trial on January 11, 2007. WBL Corporation has filed a motion to dismiss the case against it. On November 13, 2006, we filed a motion to dismiss the complaint filed against us by the Stark hedge funds in Delaware Chancery Court. A hearing was held on both our and WBL Corporation’s motions to dismiss on December 6, 2006, during which the Court took both matters under submission. As of the date of the filing of this annual report, the Court has not ruled on either motion. These conflicts of interest could include potential competitive business activities, corporate opportunities, indemnity arrangements, registration rights, sales or distributions by WBL Corporation of our common stock and the exercise by WBL Corporation of its ability to influence our management and affairs. If any conflict of interest is not resolved in a manner favorable to our stockholders, our stockholders’ interests may be substantially harmed. In general, WBL Corporation does not have the ability to prevent us from making operational decisions that do not require stockholder approval; however, WBL Corporation does have the ability to control who is elected to our board of directors each year and therefore can influence decisions that require board approval. In addition, pursuant to our stockholders agreement with WBL Corporation, for so long as WBL Corporation effectively owns at least one-third of our voting stock, it has the ability to approve the appointment of any new chief executive officer or the issuance of securities that would reduce WBL Corporation’s effective ownership of us to a level that is below a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock. In general, our certificate of incorporation does not contain any provision designed to facilitate resolution of actual or potential conflicts of interest or to ensure that potential business opportunities that may become available to both WBL Corporation and us will be reserved for or made available to us. WBL Corporation is unable to vote its shares on specified matters that require stockholder approval without obtaining its own stockholders’ and regulatory approval and it is possible that WBL Corporation’s stockholders or the relevant regulators may not approve the proposed corporate action. WBL Corporation’s ordinary shares are listed on the Singapore Exchange. Under the rules of the Singapore Exchange, to the extent that we constitute a principal subsidiary of WBL Corporation, as defined by the rules of the Singapore Exchange, at any time that we submit a matter for the approval of our stockholders, WBL Corporation may be required to obtain the approval of its own stockholders for such action before it can vote its shares with respect to our proposal or dispose of our shares of common stock. The requirement for WBL Corporation to obtain its stockholders’ approval to accept the Offer was waived by the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited on April 24, 2006. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, we were a principal subsidiary of WBL Corporation as defined by the rules of the Singapore Exchange, which state that we are deemed a principal subsidiary of WBL Corporation for any given fiscal year that our audited consolidated pre-tax profits consolidated into WBL Corporation accounts for more than 20% of the consolidated pre-tax profits of WBL Corporation during our immediately prior fiscal year. We expect to continue to be a principal subsidiary of WBL Corporation for the foreseeable future. 16 Table of Contents Examples of corporate action we may seek to take for which we would need to obtain our stockholder approval include: • an amendment of our certificate of incorporation; • a sale of all or substantially all of our assets; • a merger or reorganization transaction; and • an issuance of shares of our common stock in an offering other than a public offering at a price of less than fair market value if the number of shares being sold exceed 20% of our then outstanding common stock. To obtain stockholder approval, WBL Corporation must prepare a circular describing the proposal, obtain approval from the Singapore Exchange and send the circular to its stockholders, which may take several weeks or longer. In addition, WBL Corporation is required under its corporate rules to give its stockholders notice of the meeting ranging from 14 to 28 days. Consequently, if we need to obtain the approval of WBL Corporation at a time in which we qualify as a principal subsidiary (including this year), the process of seeking WBL Corporation’s stockholder approval may delay our proposed action and it is possible that WBL Corporation’s stockholders may not approve our proposed corporate action. It is also possible that we might not be able to establish a quorum at our stockholder meeting if WBL Corporation was unable to vote at the meeting as a result of the Singapore Exchange rules. The rules of the Singapore Exchange that govern WBL Corporation are subject to revision from time to time, and policy considerations may affect rule interpretation and application. It is possible that any change to or interpretation of existing or future rules may be more restrictive and adverse to us than the existing rules and interpretations. If we are unable to attract or retain personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to develop and market our products successfully could be harmed. We are heavily dependent on our current executive officers and management. In addition, due to the expansion of companies into the flex market and increased competition in the flex market, we anticipate that our employees may be heavily recruited by our competitors. The loss of any key employee or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including engineers and sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell our products and damage the market’s perception of us. We believe that our future success is highly dependent on the contributions of Philip A. Harding, our chief executive officer and chairman of the board of directors, and Reza Meshgin, our president and chief operating officer. We do not have employment contracts with these or any other key personnel, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. In addition, an increase in the number of manufacturers in Suzhou, China and the surrounding areas could increase the competition for qualified employees and accordingly, the costs of retaining such employees, in China, and the location of certain of our facilities in the United States may make it difficult to recruit qualified employees at those facilities. Our success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, finance, engineering and sales and marketing personnel, including in the camera module business and any new line of business we acquire. Rapidly changing standards and competing technologies could make our products obsolete, which would cause our net sales to decrease. The development and evolution of markets for our flexible printed circuit products depends on industry standards. Our products are designed to conform to current specific industry standards, such as operating temperature range. Competing standards may emerge that are preferred by our customers. We will need to make capital expenditures to support technological advances and to develop and manufacture new products and product features that our customers demand. In addition, any new product we introduce may have competing technologies available from which we may have to choose. If we choose technology or a standard that does not become the industry standard, we may be unable to sell those products or we may be unable to obtain a supplier for the raw materials for such products. 17 Table of Contents We also expect future flexible printed circuits and component assembly solutions to require higher performance specifications, including, for example, higher density circuitry than we have historically produced, and to incorporate new materials and components which may impact manufacturing yields and efficiencies. We may incur higher manufacturing costs if manufacturing processes or standards change, and we may need to replace, modify or design, build and install equipment, all of which would require additional capital expenditures. If our customers were to switch to alternative technologies or adopt new or competing industry standards with which our products are not compatible or fail to adopt standards with which our products are compatible, our existing products would become less desirable to our customers and our net sales may decrease. Problems with manufacturing yields could result in higher operating costs and could impair our ability to meet customer demand for our products. If we cannot achieve expected yields in the manufacture of our products, we may incur higher per unit costs, lower profits and reduced product availability. Low yields may result from, among other things, design errors or manufacturing failures in new or existing products. Any reduction in our ability to timely deliver products to customers could adversely affect our customer relationships and make it more difficult to sustain and grow our business. In addition, reduced yields can significantly harm our gross margins thereby contributing to lower profitability or even losses. Further, we have not yet manufactured cameras modules in high-volume production, and we may encounter difficulties in doing so. Any such difficulties could harm our ability to sustain or grow our business. We may not be able to compete effectively, which will cause our net sales and market share to decline. On a global level, we compete primarily with large flexible printed circuit board manufacturers located in Taiwan, China, Korea and Japan and, to a lesser degree, with smaller manufacturers of flexible printed circuits and component assemblies located in Europe and North America. We also compete with MFS. If we do not compete successfully, our net sales and market share may decline. We believe that one of our principal competitive advantages is our ability to interact closely with our customers throughout the design and engineering process. If we are not successful in maintaining or establishing close relationships with customers in markets in which we compete, we may not be able to grow our market share or net sales. To the extent that we are not able to provide regular interaction between our engineers and our customers and potential customers, our business may be harmed. In some cases, our competitors may offer more favorable pricing to potential or existing customers. In addition, we believe more companies are now producing flexible printed circuit boards than before. Such competition could increase pressure on us to lower our prices, which, in turn, would harm our margins and operating results. In addition, many of our customers are larger, established electronic manufacturing services, or EMS, providers. Certain of these EMS providers have developed or acquired their own flexible printed circuit manufacturing capabilities or have extensive experience in electronics assembly, and in the future, may cease ordering products from us and may compete with us on future OEM programs. Furthermore, many companies in our target customer base are moving the design and manufacturing of their products to original design manufacturers, or ODMs, in Asia. If we are unable to capture, maintain and continue to service these ODMs as customers, we may be unable to sustain or grow our business. Our products and their terms of sale are subject to various pressures from our customers and our competitors, any of which could harm our gross profit. We deal with a limited number of large customers who are able to exert significant pressure on us, both in terms of pricing and contract terms. We enter into price reduction negotiations with these customers on a periodic basis, typically annually, semi-annually or quarterly. We also renegotiate the terms of our contracts, which specify, among other items, quality requirements, liability and indemnification thresholds and payment terms, with many of our customers on an annual basis. Specifically, due to increased competition, customers have recently exerted significant pricing pressure on us, which has contributed to a 18 Table of Contents decline in our profitability. We may lose our market share if we do not participate in such negotiations; furthermore, our participation in price reduction activities may result in lower margins for us and the extension of payment terms for our customers could negatively affect our cash flow. We believe the number of customers in the market is consolidating and the number of suppliers continues to increase. The competitive landscape in our market is changing rapidly and we may lose our market share if we do not implement operational improvements in response to the evolving marketplace. Our selling prices are also affected by changes in overall demand for our products, changes in the specific products our customers buy, pricing of competitors’ products and our products’ life cycles. In addition, from time to time we may elect to reduce the price of certain programs we produce in order to gain additional orders on those programs. A typical life cycle for one of our products begins with higher prices when the product is introduced and decreasing prices as it matures. To offset price decreases during a product’s life cycle, we rely primarily on higher sales volume and improving our manufacturing yield and productivity to reduce a product’s cost. If we cannot reduce our manufacturing costs as prices decline during a product’s life cycle, or if we are required to pay liquidated damages to a customer due to a breach of contract claim, including due to quality or delivery issues, our cost of sales may increase, which would result in decreased gross profit or increased gross loss in a period in which we do not have gross profit. Significant product failures could harm our reputation and our business. Continued improvement in manufacturing capabilities, quality control, material costs and successful product testing capabilities are critical to our growth. Our efforts to monitor, develop, modify and implement stringent testing and manufacturing processes for our products may not be sufficient. If any flaw in the design, production, assembly or testing of our flexible printed circuit products was to occur, we may experience a rate of failure in our products that would result in significant delays in product shipments, cancellation of orders, substantial repair or replacement costs and potential damage to our reputation. Any failure to maintain ongoing sales through our independent sales representatives could harm our business. To date, we have sold our products through our direct sales force and a network of non-exclusive independent sales representatives. We rely on these sales representatives to provide customer contacts and market our products directly to our global customer base. Our sales representatives are not obligated to continue selling our products, and they may terminate their arrangements with us at any time with limited notice. It is possible that we may not be able to maintain or expand these relationships successfully or secure agreements with additional sales representatives on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any failure to develop and maintain our relationships with these sales representatives and any failure of our sales representatives to effectively market our products could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must continue to be able to procure raw materials and components on commercially reasonable terms to manufacture our products profitably. At times, there are worldwide shortages of the raw materials and components used in the fabrication of flexible printed circuits and imaging solutions. Our customers require that we use raw materials and components that have been pre-qualified by them, which limits further the supply of raw materials and components available to us and frequently results in our need to seek raw materials and components from a limited number of suppliers. In addition, suppliers of certain of our raw materials and components may consider us too small of a customer to sell to directly, which could require us to buy through distributors, which could increase the cost of such raw materials and components. We generally do not maintain a large surplus stock of raw materials or components for our products because the specific assemblies are uniquely applicable to the products we produce for our customers; therefore, we rely on short-term supply contracts with third-party suppliers to provide these raw materials and components in a timely fashion and on commercially reasonable terms. Our operations would be negatively impacted if we are unable to receive raw materials or components on a timely or cost-effective basis. Given the rapid increase in demand for flexible printed circuits and imaging solutions, a worldwide shortage for these materials may exist from time to time. In the past, a similar shortage for flexible printed circuit materials required that we qualify an additional supplier in order to maintain the delivery of our 19 Table of Contents largest production run, and during certain quarters of fiscal 2006, we experienced component shortages which resulted in delayed shipments to customers. We expect that these delays may continue in future periods, and we may not be successful in managing any shortage of raw materials or components that we may experience, which would decrease our revenue. We purchase substantially all of our materials used to make flexible printed circuits from four sources, E.I. Dupont de Nemours & Co., or Dupont, Mitsui Plastic, Inc., or Mitsui, 3M Worldwide, or 3M, and Rogers Corporation, or Rogers. In the fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, we purchased approximately 53%, 84% and 77% of these materials from Dupont, 15%, 0% and 0% from Mitsui, 3%, 0% and 0% from 3M and approximately 14%, 16% and 23% from Rogers, respectively. Currently, Molex Inc., Supertex, Inc., Panasonic and ITT, Inc. are our largest component suppliers. In the fiscal year 2006, we purchased 10%, 4%, 3% and 24% of our components from Molex, Supertex, Panasonic and ITT. In the fiscal year 2005, we purchased 12%, 3%, 4% and 13% of our components from Molex, Supertex, Panasonic and ITT. In the fiscal year 2004, we purchased 10%, 2% 13% and 13% of our components from Molex, Supertex, Panasonic and ITT. We face business, political, regulatory, operational, financial and economic risks because a significant portion of our operations and sales are to customers outside of the United States. Our primary manufacturing facilities are located in China. Although our headquarters are located in California and we also have operations in Arizona, we expect that our operations in China will continue to assume a larger and more important role in our business. We are subject to risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control, including: • difficulties in obtaining domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses and compliance with foreign laws, including employment laws; • difficulties in collecting payments from foreign customers to whom we have extended significant amounts of credit if those customers do not pay us on the payment terms extended to them; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including cultural differences in the conduct of business, labor and other workforce requirements and inadequate local infrastructure; • the need to successfully migrate our foreign locations to the financial reporting system used by us in the United States, including the need to implement and maintain financial controls that comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; • trade restrictions or higher tariffs; • transportation delays and difficulties of managing international distribution channels; • longer payment cycles for, and greater difficulty collecting, accounts receivable; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations that render our prices uncompetitive or increase our cost of doing business, specifically the Chinese RMB; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, royalties and withholding taxes that restrict the repatriation of earnings and effects on our effective income tax rate due to profits generated or lost in foreign countries; 20 Table of Contents • political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; • increases in the cost of doing business in China, including increases due to changes in environmental regulations, increased competition for employees and new or increased governmental fees or assessments; • requests from the government that we relocate facilities which we had planned to continue to operate for the foreseeable future; • disruptions or shortages in the supply of electricity or other utilities; and • public health emergencies such as SARS and avian bird flu. Any of these factors could harm our future international sales and operations significantly. Our manufacturing capacity may be interrupted, limited or delayed if we cannot maintain sufficient sources of electricity in China, or if there is a natural disaster or other catastrophic event in China. The flexible printed circuit fabrication process requires a stable source of electricity. As our production capabilities increase in China and our business grows, our requirements for a stable source of electricity in China will grow substantially. We have experienced a lack of sufficient electricity supply and expect that we may continue to experience insufficient power supplies in the foreseeable future. Although we have purchased several generators, we cannot be assured that such generators will produce sufficient electricity supply in the event of a disruption in power. Power interruptions, electricity shortages, the cost of diesel fuel to run our back-up generations or government intervention, particularly in the form of rationing, are factors that could restrict our access to electricity in Suzhou, China, the location of our Chinese manufacturing facilities, and affect our manufacturing costs. Any such shortages could result in delays in our shipments to our customers and, potentially, the loss of customer orders and penalties from such customers for the delay. Our two primary manufacturing facilities are both located in Suzhou, China. MFS has one flexible printed circuit facility in each of Singapore and Malaysia as well as one in China and two printed circuit board facilities in China. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events, including wildfires and other fires, earthquakes, excessive rain, terrorist attacks and wars, could disrupt our manufacturing ability, which could harm our operations and financial results. China’s legal system embodies uncertainties that could harm our business operations. Since 1979, many new laws and regulations covering general economic matters have been promulgated in China. Despite the development of the legal system, China’s system of laws is not yet complete. Even where adequate law exists in China, enforcement of contracts based on existing law may be uncertain and sporadic, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. The relative inexperience of China’s judiciary in many cases creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. In addition, interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political changes. Our activities in China will be subject to administrative review and approval by various national and local agencies of China’s government. Given the changes occurring in China’s legal and regulatory structure, we may not be able to secure the requisite governmental approval for our activities. Failure to obtain the requisite governmental approval for any of our activities could impede our ability to operate our business or increase our expenses. 21 Table of Contents We may have difficulty managing any growth that we might experience. If we continue to experience growth in our operations, our manufacturing facilities, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls may need to be expanded, which will distract our management team from our business plan and involve increased expenses. Our success will depend substantially on the ability of our management team to manage any growth effectively. These challenges may include: • the ability of our management to predict accurately increases or decreases in demand for our products and manage our manufacturing capacity appropriately; • maintaining our cost structure at an appropriate level based on the net sales we generate; • managing multiple, concurrent manufacturing expansion projects; • implementing and improving our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including our computer systems; • managing operations in multiple locations and multiple time zones; • the ability to timely and in a cost-effective manner increase our manufacturing capacity, hire additional employees or build new manufacturing facilities in order to meet customer demands, the failure of any of which could cause customers to take their business to our competitors; and • the ability to acquire customers in a new line of business. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules and regulations may increase the time and costs of certain activities. We incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses as a result of being a public company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and Nasdaq, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These rules and regulations have increased our financial compliance costs and have made some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and, from time to time, we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We continue to evaluate and monitor developments with respect to these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Our business is capital intensive and the failure to obtain capital could require that we curtail capital expenditures. To remain competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in capital equipment, facilities and technological improvements. We expect that substantial capital will be required to expand our manufacturing capacity and fund working capital for anticipated growth. We may need to raise additional funds through further debt or equity financings. We may not be able to raise additional capital on reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, under the terms of our stockholders agreement with WBL Corporation, WBL Corporation’s approval is required for the issuance of securities that would reduce its effective ownership of us to a level that is below a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock. If WBL Corporation’s approval is required, it is possible that WBL Corporation may not approve of any transaction we may seek to complete, which could affect whether we are able to complete such a transaction. If we cannot raise the required capital when needed, we may not be able to satisfy the demands of existing and prospective customers and may lose net sales and market share. 22 Table of Contents The following factors could affect our ability to obtain additional capital on favorable terms, or at all: • our existing debt to income levels if we are required to proceed with the Offer and borrow up to approximately $222 million to pay a portion of the purchase price for MFS; • our results of operations; • general economic conditions and conditions in the electronics industry; • the perception of our business in the capital markets; • our ratio of debt to equity; • our financial condition; • our business prospects; • WBL Corporation’s approval, if required; • the international aspects of our business, including the foreign location of a majority of our physical assets and the fact that a majority of our customers are located overseas; and • interest rates. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital in the future, we may have to curtail our capital expenditures. Any curtailment of our capital expenditures could result in a reduction in net sales, reduced quality of our products, increased manufacturing costs for our products, harm to our reputation, reduced manufacturing efficiencies or other harm to our business. We are subject to the risk of increased income and other taxes in China. We currently enjoy tax holidays and other tax incentives for our operations in China. The tax holiday rate of 12% for our first manufacturing facility in China, MFC1, will expire on December 31, 2007. After this time, MFC1 will be subject to an income tax rate of 27%, based on current law. We have obtained two tax holidays for our second manufacturing facility in China, MFC2. The first tax holiday allows for tax-free operation for the first two years (beginning in the first year of profitability) followed by three years of operation at a reduced rate of income tax equal to 12% on the profits generated from the original registered capital. The second tax holiday allows for tax-free operation for the first two years followed by three years of operation at a reduced rate of income tax equal to 12% on the profits generated from the increased capital. Beginning on January 1, 2006, MFC2 will be subject to a tax holiday rate of 12% on approximately 46% of its profits and a tax holiday rate of 0% on approximately 54% of its profits. However, these tax holidays may be challenged, modified or even eliminated by taxing authorities or changes in law. For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 we realized tax savings of $4.4 million and $3.5 million respectively, for our operations in China. In February 2004, China’s deputy finance minister announced that the Chinese government plans to unify the tax code for domestic and foreign companies by as early as 2006, thereby eliminating the current tax holidays. The new rate is expected to be between 24% and 26% and is expected to treat domestic and foreign entities equally. The exact timing and nature of the changes to China’s tax code are unknown at this time. Without the benefit of the tax holiday for our China operations, our net income in prior periods would have been reduced and net income in future periods will be reduced. 23 Table of Contents In addition, from time to time we may be subject to various types of tax audits in China. For example, we have recently completed an audit in China relating to the import and export of raw and component materials at MFC1, where we were required to charge approximately $1.5 million to cost of sales for value added tax and duty, plus interest and penalties. Our bank facilities contain restrictive covenants that, if not satisfied or waived, could impact our ability to borrow money under these facilities and could result in acceleration of our debt obligations under these facilities that may be outstanding from time to time. Our failure to comply with restrictive covenants in our bank facilities could result in an event of default which, if not satisfied or waived, could preclude us from borrowing money under one or more of these facilities or may result in us being required to repay any borrowings we may have under our facilities from time to time. In addition, our facility with NLG provides that NLG can refuse to honor a draw request from us for any reason, even if we are in full compliance with the terms of the facility. If we were unable to borrow under these facilities to finance our operations or we were unable to refinance borrowings under our facilities that may come due, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. If we fail to secure or protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technologies, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our net sales or increase our costs. We primarily rely on trade secrets relating to our manufacturing processes to protect our proprietary rights. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may not be effective and may be challenged by third parties. In addition, other parties may independently develop similar or competing technologies. We compete in industries with rapid development and technological innovation. If we fail to protect our proprietary rights adequately, our competitors could offer similar products using processes or technologies developed by us and thereby potentially harm our competitive position and our financial condition. We also rely on patent protection for the intelligent property that we have developed. It is possible that a third party may challenge the validity of any of these patents, or circumvent the patents by developing competing products based on technology that does not infringe our patents. Consequently, our patents may not provide meaningful protections against competition for these products. Further, in some countries outside the United States, patent protection is not available. Moreover, some countries that do allow registration of patents do not provide meaningful redress for patent violations. As a result, protecting intellectual property in those countries is difficult and competitors may sell products in those countries that have functions and features that infringe on our intellectual property. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. From time to time, we have received, and expect to continue to receive, notices of claims of infringement, misappropriation or misuse of other parties’ proprietary rights. Some of these claims may lead to litigation. Any intellectual property lawsuit, whether or not determined in our favor or settled, could be costly, could harm our reputation and could divert our management from normal business operations. Adverse determinations in litigation could subject us to significant liability and could result in the loss of our proprietary rights. A successful lawsuit against us could also force us to cease selling or redesign products that incorporate the infringed intellectual property. In addition, we could be required to seek a license from the holder of the intellectual property to use the infringed technology, and it is possible that we may not be able to obtain a license on reasonable terms, or at all. If we fail to develop a non-infringing technology on a timely basis or to license the infringed technology on acceptable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Complying with environmental laws and regulations may increase our costs and reduce our profitability. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture, use and disposal of chemicals, solid and hazardous waste and other toxic and hazardous materials used in the manufacture of flexible printed circuits and component assemblies. A significant part of our manufacturing operations is located in China, where we are subject to 24 Table of Contents constantly evolving environmental regulation. The costs of complying with any change in such regulations and the costs of remedying potential violations or resolving enforcement actions that might be initiated by governmental entities in China could be substantial. Environmental laws require us to maintain and comply with a number of permits, authorizations and approvals and to maintain and update training programs and safety data for materials used in our manufacturing processes. We reserved $129,000 and $125,000 of restricted cash for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively, at the direction of the County of Orange, California, to finance estimated environmental clean-up costs in the event that we vacate our Anaheim facilities. In the event of a violation, we may be required to halt one or more segments of our operations until such violation is cured. Although we attempt to operate in compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, we may not succeed in this effort at all times. The costs of remedying violations or resolving enforcement actions that might be initiated by governmental authorities could be substantial. Any remediation of environmental contamination would involve substantial expense that could harm our results of operations. In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our operations may be subject or the manner in which existing or future laws will be administered or interpreted. Future regulations may be applied to materials, products or activities that have not been subject to regulation previously. The costs of complying with new or more stringent regulations could be significant. We may not address successfully problems encountered in connection with any acquisition. We expect to continue to consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other technologies, products and businesses that could enhance our capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our markets or customer base. We have limited experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies. Potential and completed acquisitions and strategic investments involve numerous risks, including: • problems assimilating the purchased technologies, products or business operations, including the timely integration of financial reporting systems. • problems maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; • start-up costs associated with any new line of business we may acquire; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering new markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; • potential litigation risks associated with acquisitions, whether completed or not; • the need to hire additional employees to operate effectively the acquired business, including employees with specialized knowledge; and • increased legal and accounting costs as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions and strategic investments properly, our management team may be distracted from our day-to-day operations, our business may be disrupted and our operating results may suffer. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders would be diluted. We also may be limited in our ability to finance an acquisition through the issuance of convertible debt or equity as a result of our stockholders agreement with WBL Corporation, which required WBL Corporation’s approval before we issue securities which would dilute its effective ownership below 50% of our outstanding common stock. 25 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Market for our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and you may not be able to resell our shares at a profit or at all. The trading price of our common stock could fluctuate, and has fluctuated, due to the factors discussed in this report and elsewhere in our SEC filings. For example, during the 12 months ended September 30, 2006, our stock traded between $18.00 and $67.22 per share. In addition, the trading market for our common stock may be influenced by the public float that exists in our stock from time to time. For example, although we have approximately 24.4 million shares of common stock outstanding, approximately 19 million of those shares are held by a few investors. If any of those investors were to decide to sell a substantial portion of their respective shares, it would place substantial downward pressure on our stock price. The trading market for our common stock also may be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our industry. If one or more of the analysts who cover us were to publish an unfavorable research report or to downgrade our stock, our stock price likely would decline. If one or more of these analysts were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. In addition, the stock market in general, and Nasdaq and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Our historical trading prices and valuations may not be sustainable. These broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. In the event we are unable to remedy any deficiency we identify in our system of internal controls over financial reporting, or if our internal controls are not effective, our business and our stock price could suffer. In preparation for the annual report of management regarding our evaluation of our internal controls that is required to be included in each of our fiscal year-end annual reports by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act , or Section 404, we adopted a project work plan to assess the adequacy of our internal controls, remediate any deficiency that we may identify, validate that controls are functioning as documented and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal controls. As part of this continuous process, we may discover deficiencies that require us to improve our procedures, processes and systems in order to ensure that our internal controls over financial reporting are adequate and effective and that we are in compliance with the requirements of Section 404. Although we have a timeline and schedule that we believe are appropriate to comply with the requirements of Section 404, if any found deficiency is not adequately addressed, or if we are unable to complete all of our testing and any remediation in time for compliance with the requirements of Section 404 and the SEC rules thereunder, we would be unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, which could adversely affect investor confidence in our internal controls over financial reporting. If we do not complete our testing with sufficient time for an independent registered public accounting firm to complete their audit of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be compliant with all of the requirements under Section 404 since we may not receive an unqualified report on internal control over financial reporting, and our business and stock price may be adversely affected. Fluctuations in our operating results on a quarterly and annual basis could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of changes in demand for our products, our effectiveness in managing manufacturing processes and costs and the degree to which we are able to utilize our available manufacturing capacity. Historically, we have experienced a strong first fiscal quarter, followed by reduced net sales in the second fiscal quarter, as a result of partial seasonality of our major customers and the markets that we serve. We anticipate that this seasonal impact on our net sales is 26 Table of Contents likely to continue. As a result, our net sales and operating results have fluctuated significantly from period-to-period in the past and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. You should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. In future periods, our net sales and results of operations may be below our expectations or the expectations of analysts and investors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our expense levels in the future will be based, in large part, on our expectations regarding net sales. Many of our expenses are fixed in the short term or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales. We may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall of sales. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. Future sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. As of September 30, 2006, we had 24,443,371 shares of common stock outstanding and 1,215,244 shares subject to unexercised options that are fully vested. All of these shares are eligible for resale, subject to certain volume limitations. In addition, if closing of the Offer occurs, and assuming full acceptances of the Offer and full election of the stock considerations by MFS shareholders, we will issue up to approximately 9.6 million shares of New M-Flex common stock in the Offer (assuming holders of options with respect to 6.4 million MFS shares exercise their options to acquire MFS shares and elect to take the stock consideration), of which approximately up to 4.3 million shares held by stockholders other that WBL Corporation will be freely tradable six months after the closing of the Offer, if it closes. See “Item 3- Legal Proceedings” below. To the extent any major stockholder sells its shares into the market, the market price of our common stock could decline. Delaware law and our corporate charter and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • the establishment of a classified board of directors requiring that not all directors be elected at one time; • a majority of our directors are required to be independent; • the ability of our board of directors to increase or decrease the size of our board of directors without stockholder approval; • the ability of our board of directors to fill vacancies on the board of directors created by the death, resignation or incapacity of a director or the enlargement of the board of directors without stockholder approval; • the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting; • the ability of our board of directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; • the ability of the board of directors to issue and designate the rights of, without stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, which rights could be senior to those of common stock; 27 Table of Contents • the elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to take action by written consent; and • so long as a single or related group of stockholders own at least one-third of our outstanding common stock, a transaction between us and any person or entity in which such stockholder or stockholders have a material interest, if required under applicable federal and state law and/or Nasdaq rules to be approved by our stockholders, will require approval of a majority of the outstanding shares not held by such interested stockholders present in person or by proxy at the meeting of stockholders held with respect to such transaction. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or Delaware law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our charter, bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts and could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would without these provisions. Risks Relating to the Offer to Acquire All of the Issued and Outstanding Ordinary Shares of MFS In light of MFS’ recent financial performance, we believe that the consummation of the Offer would cause serious harm to us. Our Special Committee and board of directors have withdrawn their recommendation for the Offer because they have determined that the acquisition of MFS under the existing price and current terms of the Offer could cause serious harm to our business, financial condition and results of operations. This belief is based on, among other things, MFS’ recent financial performance. Specifically, since March 2006, MFS has announced its financial results for the three months ended June 30, 2006 and the three months and full fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. The financial results for MFS for the periods ended September 30, 2006 have been obtained from public information filed by MFS with the SGX on October 13, 2006 and have not been subject to audit or review procedures. This MFS financial information has been included for informational purposes as our Special Committee believes it is relevant to evaluating the trends in MFS’ business. We were not involved in the preparation of such MFS financial information and have not been able to perform due diligence procedures on the September 30, 2006 MFS financial results and accordingly, we take no responsibility for such financial results. Following is a brief summary of those results as compared to the comparable period in the prior fiscal year: Reported Financial Results of MFS for the Three-Month Periods Ended June 30, 2005 and 2006 (in millions of Singapore Dollars, except percentages) June 30, 2005 June 30, 2006 % Change (unaudited) (unaudited) Sales S$ 78.5 S$ 71.9 (8 )% Gross Profit 11.1 5.8 (48 )% Net Income 6.5 1.0 (85 )% 28 Table of Contents Reported Financial Results of MFS for the Three-Month Periods Ended September 30, 2005 and 2006 (in millions of Singapore Dollars, except percentages) September 30, 2005 September 30, 2006(1) % Change (unaudited) (unaudited) Sales S$ 93.3 S$ 89.0 (5 )% Gross Profit 13.5 10.0 (26 )% Net Income 8.2 4.2 (49 )% Sequentially from June 30, 2006, MFS’ backlog declined by 16% from S$170 million to S$143 million at September 30, 2006. Reported Financial Results of MFS for the Six-Month Periods Ended September 30, 2005 and 2006 (in millions of Singapore Dollars, except percentages) September 30, 2005 September 30, 2006 (1) % Change (unaudited) (unaudited) Sales S$ 171.8 S$ 160.9 (6 )% Gross Profit 24.6 15.9 (35 )% Net Income 14.7 5.2 (65 )% Reported Financial Results of MFS for the Full Fiscal Years Ended September 30, 2005 and 2006 (in millions of Singapore Dollars, except percentages) September 30, 2005 September 30, 2006 (1) % Change (unaudited) Sales S$ 379.5 S$ 383.4 1 % Gross Profit 59.5 60.6 2 % Net Income 35.0 29.3 (16 )% (1) The financial results of MFS for the periods ended September 30, 2006 are based on unaudited financial results filed with the SGX and have not been subject to audit or review procedures. These unaudited and unreviewed financial results may be subject to significant change upon completion of an audit. The foregoing is based on a comparison of reported results. Our Special Committee and board of directors had premised their original approval and recommendation for the Offer on substantially higher estimates of MFS’ operating results for the June 30 and September 30, 2006 quarters, reflecting the growth trend that MFS’ management had expressed in public filings it expected to continue, barring any unforeseen circumstances. Since the announcement of the Offer in March 2006, MFS’ financial performance has been materially worse than the growth trends that MFS’ management expressed in public filings. In addition, MFS’ backlog at September 30, 2006 was $143 million, compared to $170 million at June 30, 2006, a decline of 16%. MFS indicated that these declines are attributable to weaker demand from key customers, continued weakening of the U.S. dollar impacting U.S. sales and price reductions given to key customers. MFS also indicated that lower utilization of manufacturing facilities combined with increased prices for raw materials further impacted gross profits. 29 Table of Contents In order to better ascertain the condition of MFS’ business, we have made numerous requests for financial and business information from MFS. Despite our multiple requests for information, MFS has provided to us only limited historical information about MFS and has not provided any meaningful information regarding known trends and uncertainties. For example, MFS has not responded to our inquiries as to MFS’ current business relationship with its key customers. Without this material information from MFS regarding the health of its business, we are unable to evaluate whether its operating results in the past two quarters will rebound, decline further, or will continue at current levels. Further, absent significant improvement in MFS’ operating results, the combined company would be in serious jeopardy of defaulting on the interest payments on the debt that we would be required to incur to pay the purchase price if the Offer were to proceed and close. MFS cites as its reason for not providing information to us, its obligations under Singapore law not to share price sensitive information and its need to maintain the confidentiality of commercially sensitive information. We may not be successful in our litigation against WBL Corporation. WBL Corporation has indicated that it remains bound to us and MFS under the WBL Corporation undertaking agreement. Although we have offered to release WBL Corporation from its obligation to vote for the transaction under the undertaking agreement, MFS has declined to offer WBL Corporation a similar release. On October 17, 2006, we filed suit in the Chancery Court of the State of Delaware in and for New Castle County against WBL Corporation and certain of its affiliates asserting claims for declaratory and injunctive relief that arises from the undertaking agreement signed by WBL Corporation, to which both we and MFS are beneficiaries, in which WBL Corporation agreed to vote its M-Flex shares in favor of the Offer. The complaint asserts that declaratory and injunctive relief is necessary to prevent WBL Corporation from taking action which we believe to be in breach of its fiduciary duties as a controlling stockholder of us that will harm us and our minority stockholders and seeks to require WBL Corporation to vote against the Offer. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in preventing WBL Corporation from voting for the Offer. This case in Delaware Chancery Court has been set for January 11, 2007. In addition, WBL Corporation has filed a motion to dismiss our complaint against them, and on December 6, 2006, a hearing was held on WBL Corporation’s motion to dismiss, during which the Court took the matter under submission. As of the date of the filing of this annual report, the Court has not ruled on the motion. The Stark hedge funds’ interests in the Offer may conflict with the interests of our disinterested stockholders in light of the Stark hedge funds’ equity positions in both MFS and us. We filed a lawsuit against the Stark hedge funds which own approximately 18% of our outstanding common stock and approximately 5% of MFS’ outstanding shares. The Stark hedge funds own approximately 48% of our shares not held by WBL Corporation or its affiliates. The Stark hedge funds have stated in filings with the SEC that they intend to vote for the Offer, but we believe they have failed to properly disclose the extent of their MFS stock ownership. Given that WBL Corporation has signed an irrevocable undertaking to vote in favor of the Offer and the Stark hedge funds effectively have acquired control of over a majority of our minority shares, we believe the protections of our charter which require related-party transactions to be approved by the majority of the minority shares no longer provide meaningful protection to our minority stockholders. Given that the Stark hedge funds have obtained a significant equity position in both us and MFS, there is a risk that they will vote in favor of the Offer in order to maximize their short-term economic gains as MFS shareholders, notwithstanding the Special Committee’s and board of directors’ determination that the Offer is against the best interests of our stockholders. If the Stark hedge funds are able to control a sufficient number of votes to approve the consummation of the Offer, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected to the extent that we are required to complete the acquisition of MFS under the existing price and current terms of the Offer. We commenced litigation against the Stark hedge funds seeking to require them to disclose all required facts regarding their M-Flex and MFS positions or else be enjoined from voting their shares of us. The Stark hedge funds filed a motion to dismiss our case against them on the basis that they have fully complied with the disclosure requirements under federal securities laws, and on December 4, 2006, the Court granted such motion with leave for us to amend our complaint against them by December 26, 2006. 30 Table of Contents We are currently evaluating whether to amend our complaint against the Stark hedge funds. Even if we do amend our complaint, there is no guarantee that this action will be successful. Even if successful, the defendants could cure their deficient disclosures and continue to vote for the transaction. On November 2, 2006, the Stark hedge funds filed suit in the Chancery Court of the State of Delaware in and for New Castle County against us, our Special Committee and Philip A. Harding, asserting claims for declaratory and injunctive relief, as well as damages. The complaint, among other things, alleges the defendants have breached their fiduciary duties by interfering with our stockholder vote on the Offer and seeking to enjoin defendants from taking any action that would compel any of our stockholders to vote either for or against the Offer. The cases in Delaware Chancery Court involving the Stark hedge funds and WBL have been set for trial on January 11, 2007. On November 13, 2006, we filed a motion to dismiss the complaint filed by the Stark hedge funds against us in the Delaware Chancery Court, and on December 6, 2006, a hearing was held on our motion to dismiss, during which the Court took the matter under submission. As of the date of the filing of this annual report, the Court has not ruled on the motion. Our litigation strategies may distract us from operating our business. Even if we are successful in our litigation strategies, the litigation by and against the Stark hedge funds and against WBL Corporation as well as any other litigation that may commence, could cause us to incur significant expenditures and distract our management from the operations and conduct of our business, particularly if management is required to expend substantial time and effort to enjoin multiple defendants from voting in favor of the Offer. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we would prevail in such litigation or resolve such litigation on terms favorable to us, which may adversely affect our operations. As a result of our commencing the litigation against the Stark hedge funds and WBL Corporation, we may be sued by WBL Corporation, MFS, or others, including stockholders of us and/or MFS. On November 2, 2006, the Stark hedge funds filed suit in the Chancery Court of the State of Delaware in and for New Castle County against us, our Special Committee and Philip A. Harding asserting claims for declaratory and injunctive relief, as well as damages. The complaint, among other things, alleges the defendants have breached their fiduciary duties by interfering with our stockholder vote on the Offer and seeks to enjoin the defendants from taking any action that would compel any of our stockholders to vote either for or against the Offer. On November 13, 2006, M-Flex filed a motion to dismiss the complaint filed by the Stark hedge funds against us in the Delaware Chancery Court, and on December 6, 2006, a hearing was held on our motion to dismiss, during which the Court took the matter under submission. As of the date of the filing of this annual report, the Court has not ruled on the motion. There is no guarantee that any such suits will be covered by our insurance (in fact, we have been advised by our insurance broker that our insurance carrier intends to deny coverage) or that such suits might not result in substantial fines, penalties or adverse judgments against us. In addition, the Singapore Securities Industry Council (the “SIC”) may review whether the actions of our board of directors and Special Committee are, from the Singapore regulatory perspective, reasonable and appropriate in light of the developments and circumstances. Any such review, if it commences, likely will involve a significant distraction to management. Further, if the SIC determines that our board of directors or Special Committee have not acted appropriately, it may seek to require us to proceed with the making of the Offer, or impose sanctions or fines or censures on us, which may further distract our management and harm our business. We can give no assurances as to when, or if, the Offer will proceed or close. In light of (1) the change in recommendation by our Special Committee and board of directors and (2) our belief that the transaction could be approved by stockholders who, in the case of WBL Corporation, would be voting contrary to its fiduciary duties under Delaware law and in the case of the Stark hedge funds, might be voting without first disclosing the extent of their ownership of MFS shares, we have commenced litigation against our majority stockholder—WBL Corporation, as well as the Stark hedge funds—seeking, among other things, to require WBL Corporation to vote against the transaction and to 31 Table of Contents enjoin the Stark hedge funds from voting their shares without first disclosing the extent of their ownership of MFS shares. The Stark hedge funds have been granted their motion to dismiss our case against them on the basis that they have fully complied with the disclosure requirements under federal securities laws, although we have been given leave to amend our complaint by the Court. We are currently evaluating whether to amend such complaint. If the transaction were to proceed, the closing of the Offer would not occur until various specified conditions are satisfied or waived, including, among others: • the acceptance of the Offer by MFS shareholders holding more than 64% of the outstanding MFS shares (including all MFS shares issued or to be issued pursuant to a valid exercise, prior to the close of the Offer, of any share options under the MFS ESOS); • the approval of the issuance of shares of New M-Flex common stock in the Offer by our stockholders; and • the absence of any material adverse event affecting MFS, its business or operations. If these conditions are not satisfied or waived, as applicable, the Offer and the related transactions likely would be terminated. We have incurred approximately $4.5 million of expenses as of September 30, 2006 in connection with making the announcement of our intention to acquire all of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares of MFS, which would be required to be written off immediately if the Offer does not proceed and close. Any such write-off could have a substantial impact on our earnings in the period in which it is expensed. If the Offer is completed, the combined company may not realize any benefits of the transaction and may have a weakened financial condition. If the transaction were to proceed notwithstanding the recommendation of our Special Committee and board of directors, our ability to realize any benefits of the transaction will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the operations of the two companies following the closing of the Offer. We have limited experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies. The combination of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. This process may disrupt the business of either or both companies, and may not result in any of the benefits expected by us. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies may include, among other things: • managing the substantial debt service payments that we will incur, which if the financial performance of the combined company were to continue to deteriorate, could result in the combined company not being able to continue as a going concern; • possible increased costs and reduced synergies if MFS is required to continue to operate as a listed company in Singapore; • possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between both companies, including the need to improve any deficiency in accounting controls or procedures that may exist in MFS at the time we complete the transaction; • coordinating and consolidating ongoing and future research and development; • consolidating sales and marketing operations; • retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; • maintaining sales levels from existing common customers who may decide to diversify their supply chain; • retaining strategic partners and attracting new strategic partners; • retaining key employees, including key sales representatives; • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures, including consolidating and integrating computer information and financial systems; • integrating and managing the technologies and products of the two companies; • identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; • relocating or disposing of excess equipment; 32 Table of Contents • the need to manage unprofitable operations and the expenses associated with restructuring those operations; • using capital assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company; • possible tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company, including the risk that our efforts to restructure our subsidiaries do not result in any tax savings or result in increased taxes; • modification of and costs relating to operating control standards in order to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and • retaining and attracting new engineers and research and development personnel to support new products and new technology development. The closing of the Offer and integration of our and MFS’ operations, products and personnel may place a significant burden on management and internal resources, and divert management’s attention away from our day-to-day business and operations. In addition, if the total costs of the Offer exceed our estimates, or the benefits of the Offer do not exceed the total costs of the Offer, the financial results of the combined company could be adversely affected and actual cost savings and synergies may be lower than currently expected and may take a longer time to achieve than currently anticipated. For these reasons, we may fail to complete successfully the anticipated integration of us and MFS, or to realize any of the anticipated benefits of the integration of the two companies. Due to the decline in the financial performance of MFS, we may be required to evaluate whether to record an impairment charge as of the date of the consummation of the acquisition related to goodwill recorded in connection with the acquisition of MFS. Pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (“SFAS 142”), we are required to test goodwill for impairment annually or more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. The first stage would require a comparison of the fair value of M-Flex to its net book value. If the fair value is greater than net book value, then no impairment is deemed to have occurred. If the fair value is less than net book value, then the second stage of SFAS 142 must be completed to determine the amount, if any, by estimating the fair value of all other assets and liabilities of the reporting unit and comparing this to the net book value. Due to significant decreases in MFS’ net sales and net income since March 2006, we may be required to assess the amount of impairment related to the goodwill recorded for the acquisition of MFS on the date of the consummation of the acquisition and record an immediate impairment charge. For example, if the fair value of us as of the date of consummation is below the net book value of us after recording the acquisition of MFS, we would fail stage one of SFAS 142 and would be required to determine if goodwill is impaired. This would include estimating the fair value of all other assets and liabilities as of the date of the completion of the transaction. If less than 90% of the minority shares of MFS were not tendered in the Offer, the combined company would have increased operating expenses and will be limited in its ability to consolidate MFS’ operations. If the transaction proceeds and closes notwithstanding the recommendation of our Special Committee and board of directors and if less than 90% of the outstanding ordinary shares of MFS (excluding the shares held by M-Flex or our related corporations or our nominees as of the date of the Offer) are tendered in the Offer, we would not be able to exercise our right under Section 215 of the Singapore Companies Act to compulsorily acquire those MFS shares not acquired by us pursuant to the Offer, which is similar to a cash-out merger under Delaware law. As a result, we would be required to continue to operate MFS as a public company in Singapore and there may continue to be minority shareholders of MFS. If MFS is not delisted from the Official List of the Singapore Stock Exchange, we would be required to incur additional expenses each year in order to maintain the public listing of the MFS shares. These expenses would harm the combined company’s consolidated operating results by increasing general and administrative expenses. In addition, to the extent MFS has minority shareholders after completion of the Offer, the companies would be limited in the degree to which they can completely consolidate their operations. 33 Table of Contents There is a risk that the expected sales of the combined company could decrease if common customers elect to reduce their reliance on the combined company. We and MFS share common customers. If any of these customers were to determine to reduce its order level with either company in connection with the transaction, if it occurs, the resulting reduction could adversely impact sales and profitability of the combined company, perhaps severely, depending on the magnitude of the customer. We believe that some customers that have historically relied on both companies to produce products may, if the transaction proceeds, begin to view us as a single supplier and as a consequence thereof, may reduce orders to us and MFS. If the combined company’s revenues and profitability were to materially decrease as a result, it is highly likely that ultimately there would be an adverse change in the combined company’s assets, business, financial condition, profits, liabilities, prospects or results of operations. MFS owns its factories in the People’s Republic of China, or the PRC, under a joint venture with an unrelated third party and management of any significant business initiative pertaining to those factories will require approval of that party. MFS’ factories are owned through joint ventures in which MFS owns 65% and Great Wall Information Industry Co. Ltd, or GWI, owns 35%. Any significant decisions affecting these factories will require unanimous approval of a board of managers with respect to each factory which is comprised of five individuals of which three are appointed by MFS and two are appointed by GWI. There are no dispute resolution provisions or other mechanics in the joint venture agreements between MFS and GWI, and it is possible that MFS and GWI may not always agree on the activities to be conducted by such factories. Any such dispute could significantly harm MFS’ ability to generate revenue and meet its customer commitments. In addition, there are no provisions governing the mandatory sale or buy out of the other party’s interest under the joint venture agreements. Further, if the Offer were to close and we were to decide to close or downsize any of MFS’ existing facilities, we would first need to obtain approval from GWI in order to take such action. We are uncertain of the impact that intangible and fixed assets will have on the combined company’s earnings per share. If the transaction proceeds and closes notwithstanding the recommendation of our Special Committee and board of directors, until the closing of the Offer, we would not be able to determine with certainty the amount of the purchase price that is allocated to intangible assets and fixed assets. The greater the amount of the purchase price that is allocated to intangible assets and fixed assets, the greater the expense we will incur, which will adversely affect our earnings per share as the values of these assets are amortized and depreciated over their useful lives. The issuance of shares of New M-Flex common stock to MFS shareholders in the Offer could substantially reduce the percentage ownership interests of our stockholders. If the closing of the Offer occurs and assuming full acceptances of the Offer and full election of the stock consideration by MFS shareholders, we would effect the issuance of up to approximately 9.6 million shares of New M-Flex common stock to current MFS shareholders (assuming holders of options with respect to 6.4 million MFS shares exercise their options to acquire MFS shares and elect to take the stock consideration), representing approximately 28% of the approximately 34.1 million of the then outstanding shares of our common stock. WBL Corporation has executed an irrevocable undertaking committing it to elect to receive New M-Flex common stock in the Offer. If only WBL Corporation elects to receive shares of New M-Flex common stock and the remaining MFS shareholders elect to receive cash, we will issue up to approximately 5.4 million shares of New M-Flex stock in the Offer, representing approximately 18% of the approximately 29.8 million shares of our common stock then outstanding. The issuance of New M-Flex common stock to MFS shareholders and MFS option holders will cause a reduction in the relative percentage interest of our current stockholders. In addition, if we raise additional funds to finance the Offer through the sale of equity, or securities convertible into equity, our stockholders will experience further dilution. 34 Table of Contents Members of the companies’ respective management and boards of directors, as well as significant stockholders, may have interests in the Offer that may present them with actual or potential conflicts of interest in connection with the Offer. Our stockholders should be aware that some of our executive officers and directors have interests in the transaction that may be different from, or in addition to, the interests of our stockholders generally. Our stockholders should be aware that the majority stockholder of both us and MFS is WBL Corporation, which beneficially owns 61% of our common stock and 56% of the MFS shares. Our director Huat Seng Lim, Ph.D. is an employee of WBL Corporation and our director Mr. Tan Choon Seng is the Chief Executive Officer and a director of WBL Corporation. In addition, Mr. Pang Tak Lim, Managing Director of MFS, and Mr. Lester Wong, Chief Financial Officer of WBL Corporation and director of MFS, have each given irrevocable undertakings to us to accept the Offer in respect of the number of MFS shares held by them. Officers and directors of MFS and us may become officers and directors of the combined company. For a full description of the interests of directors and executive officers of us and MFS in the transaction, see “Related Party Transactions and Interests of Certain Persons in the Transaction” beginning on page 145 of Amendment No. 1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 regarding the Offer. In addition, the Stark hedge funds beneficially own approximately 18% of our common stock and just under 5% of the MFS shares. Because WBL Corporation is a majority stockholder and the Stark hedge funds are stockholders of both us and MFS, we believe that WBL Corporation and the Stark hedge funds have interests that conflict with our interests. In light of (1) the change in recommendation by our Special Committee and board of directors and (2) our belief that the transaction could be approved by stockholders who, in the case of WBL Corporation, would be voting contrary to its fiduciary duties under Delaware law and, in the case of the Stark hedge funds, without first disclosing the extent of their ownership of MFS shares, we have commenced litigation against our majority stockholder—WBL Corporation, as well as the Stark hedge funds—seeking, among other things, to require WBL Corporation to vote against the transaction and to enjoin the Stark hedge funds from voting their shares without first disclosing the extent of their ownership of MFS shares. The Stark hedge funds have been granted their motion to dismiss our case against them on the basis that they have fully complied with the disclosure requirements under federal securities laws, although we have been given leave to amend our complaint by the Court. We are currently evaluating whether to amend such complaint. On November 2, 2006, the Stark hedge funds filed suit in the Chancery Court of the State of Delaware in and for New Castle County against us, our Special Committee and Philip A. Harding, asserting claims for declaratory and injunctive relief, as well as damages. The complaint, among other things, alleges the defendants have breached their fiduciary duties by interfering with our stockholder vote on the Offer and seeks to enjoin the defendants from taking any action that would compel any of our stockholders to vote either for or against the Offer. The cases in Delaware Chancery Court involving the Stark hedge funds and WBL Corporation have been set for trial on January 11, 2007. WBL Corporation has filed a motion to dismiss in the case against them. On November 13, 2006, we filed a motion to dismiss the complaint filed by the Stark hedge funds against us in the Delaware Chancery Court. A hearing was held on both our and WBL Corporation’s motions to dismiss on December 6, 2006, during which the Court took both matters under submission. As of the date of the filing of this annual report, the Court has not ruled on either motion. To be successful, the combined company must retain and motivate key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm the combined company. If the transaction proceeds and closes notwithstanding the recommendation of our Special Committee and board of directors, the combined company must retain and motivate executives and other key employees to be successful. Our employees and MFS’ employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company until or after strategies for the combined company are announced or executed, particularly if we are able to exercise our right under Section 215 of the Singapore Companies Act to compulsorily acquire those MFS shares not acquired by us pursuant to the Offer. Difficulties in integrating the operations of the two companies could impact the combined company’s ability to motivate employees and keep them focused on the strategies and goals of the combined company. Moreover, the acceleration and exercise of all MFS stock options outstanding prior to the closing of the Offer, if the Offer 35 Table of Contents closes, may reduce the financial incentive for MFS employees to remain with the combined company after the Offer has closed. These circumstances may adversely affect the combined company’s ability to retain key personnel. We expect to incur significant costs associated with the Offer. We have incurred and will incur substantial costs in connection with the Offer and the litigation seeking to prevent the Offer and related transactions from being approved. These costs are primarily associated with the fees of financial advisors, accountants and attorneys and may include additional costs and expenses if we are sued by WBL Corporation, MFS, the SIC, or others, including stockholders of us and/or MFS. In addition, we have diverted significant management resources to the Offer. Whether or not the Offer closes, we will have incurred significant costs, including the diversion of management resources, for which we will have received little or no benefit. If we proceed with the Offer, and if we are unable to finance it through existing cash balances and financings, the completion of the Offer could be jeopardized. The Offer was designed to allow MFS shareholders to elect to receive cash or shares of New M-Flex common stock. If a substantial number of MFS shareholders were to elect to receive cash, or if our cash requirements were to increase materially because of unexpected expenses relating to marketing, advertising, sales, distribution, research and development and regulatory affairs, we would need to obtain new financing to complete the Offer. MFS has announced significant declines in its revenues recently, which has led to a substantial decline in its profitability. In addition, we have recently experienced significant declines in our gross margins, which, if these reduced margins continue, could impair our ability to obtain or service the debt relating to the Offer. If we are unable to obtain adequate new financing on a timely basis, or on commercially acceptable terms, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or terminate the Offer and may be subject to certain sanctions or censure by the SIC as a result. In addition, under the terms of our stockholders agreement with WBL Corporation, we cannot issue securities, including convertible debt, that would reduce the effective stock ownership of WBL Corporation below a majority of our voting stock outstanding without approval of WBL Corporation. This restriction may make it more difficult to obtain new financing. If the transaction proceeds notwithstanding the recommendation of our Special Committee and board of directors, we will have substantially more indebtedness, which will adversely affect our cash flows and business. We have recently experienced significant declines in our gross margins, which, if these reduced margins continue, could impair our ability to obtain or service the debt relating to the Offer. In addition, MFS has also announced significant declines in its revenues recently, which has also led to a substantial decline in its profitability. Based on our assumptions of MFS’ continued declines in revenue and profitability, our existing cash flows and overall profitability could be materially and adversely affected. If the transaction proceeds, we will likely finance the Offer through the incurrence of debt through a credit facility and our business, cash flows and results of operation could be affected by the amount of leverage incurred. In such event, there is a high risk that we may not be able to service our indebtedness without materially and adversely affecting our financial condition. The estimated total amount of funds necessary to finance the Offer and the related transactions will be between approximately U.S. $6 million and U.S. $222 million, depending upon the number of MFS shares tendered and the percentage of shares tendered for the cash consideration. If we fail to timely satisfy the debt payments or default under our credit agreements by breaching our debt covenants or other terms and conditions, we may be subject to foreclosures or liens on our assets; may need to reduce capital expenditures; may not have sufficient working capital to timely deliver customer orders; and may need to sell assets, to restructure or refinance all or part of our existing indebtedness, or to seek additional equity capital. Absent significant improvements in our and MFS’ operating results, the combined company would be in serious jeopardy of defaulting on the interest payments on the debt that we would be required to incur to pay if the Offer were to proceed and close. As a result of the increase in debt, demands on our cash resources could increase after the Offer. The increased levels of debt could, among other things: • subject us to covenants restricting our business activities which may result in additional costs and expenses; 36 Table of Contents • divert funds that would otherwise be available to support commercialization, research and development, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other important activities; • provide holders of debt instruments with rights and privileges senior to those of equity investors; • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies with less indebtedness; • make it difficult to service our debt obligations; • limit cash flow available for working capital and capital expenditures to fund organic growth and cash flow for other general corporate purposes because a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to servicing debt; • increase our vulnerability to interest rate increases to the extent any of our variable rate debt is not hedged, which could result in higher interest expense; • limit our ability to obtain further debt financing on favorable terms, if at all, in order to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, additional acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; and • increase our vulnerability to, and limit flexibility in planning for, adverse economic and industry conditions. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest on our debt, or to refinance our indebtedness, will depend upon our future operating performance and our ability to generate cash flows from operations, including our ability to maintain our gross margins, which may be affected by factors beyond our control. In addition, there can be no assurance that future borrowings or equity financings for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness will be available to us on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to service any acquisition financing debt we incur, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, with a significant increase in debt, a 100 basis point increase in debt cost could have a significant effect on our results of operation. The price of our common stock is volatile, which affects the value of the stock consideration to be received by MFS shareholders in the Offer. If the Offer is made and closes, MFS shareholders electing to receive the stock consideration in the Offer will receive 0.0145 shares of New M-Flex common stock for each MFS share tendered. Upon the completion of the Offer, because the exchange ratio is fixed at 0.0145 shares of New M-Flex common stock for each MFS share, the market value of New M-Flex common stock issued in the Offer will depend on the per share market price of New M-Flex common stock upon the closing of the Offer, if the Offer is made and closes. At the time we first announced our intention to make the Offer on March 30, 2006, the market value of our stock was $66.28 per share, based on the closing price reported on The Nasdaq Global Select Market on March 29, 2006, the last trading day prior to the announcement. The market price of our stock is $22.26, based on the closing price reported on The Nasdaq Global Select Market on December 4, 2006. The market value of our common stock will continue to fluctuate prior to the close of the Offer. We have no obligation to increase the exchange ratio should the value of New M-Flex common stock be lower at the time of the closing of the Offer than it was at the time of the first announcement of the Offer. In addition, MFS shareholders electing to receive stock consideration in the Offer will be required to agree not to sell any of the stock consideration received in the Offer for a period of six months after the closing of the Offer, if the Offer closes. The value of our common stock may fluctuate during this six month period and the per share market price at the end of the six month period may be higher or lower than the price at the time of the closing of the Offer, if it closes. Accordingly, the market value of New M-Flex common stock that will be issued in the Offer or at any time after the close of the Offer, if it closes, may be materially different than at the time of the announcement of the Offer. 37 Table of Contents Unaudited pro forma financial information is presented for illustrative purposes only and may not be an indication of the combined company’s financial condition or results of operations following the closing of the Offer, if the Offer closes. The pro forma financial information of the combined company contained in our registration statement on Form S-4, as amended from time to time, is presented for illustrative purposes only and may not be an indication of the combined company’s financial condition or results of operations following the closing of the Offer, if the Offer closes. The pro forma financial information has been derived from the historical financial statements of us and MFS and certain adjustments and assumptions have been made regarding the combined company after giving effect to the Offer. The assumptions used may not prove to be accurate, and other factors may affect the combined company’s financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, the pro forma financial information does not reflect all costs that are expected to be incurred by the combined company in connection with the Offer, including incremental costs incurred in integrating the two companies or effecting a compulsory acquisition of MFS. As a result, the actual financial condition and results of operations of the combined company following the closing of the Offer, if the Offer closes, may not be consistent with, or evident from, these pro forma financial statements. If the transaction proceeds notwithstanding the recommendation of our Special Committee and Board of Directors, the integration of our and MFS’ businesses would be expensive and would require significant focus on staffing, training and compliance procedures, as well as significant additional expense, for our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a Singapore company, MFS has not had to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 concerning the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. Consequently, MFS does not currently have the staff, experience, training or procedures to comply with these requirements. The integration of us and MFS would be expensive and would require significant focus on staffing and training to address these requirements. If we are unable to implement our compliance procedures and have a properly trained staff in place on a timely basis, we could encounter a significant deficiency or material weakness in our internal controls. If in the future we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of the end of the then current fiscal year or applicable quarter (or, if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to attest that our management’s report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have a negative market reaction. We will encounter material adverse consequences if we are unable to process and report, on a timely basis, the combined business’ financial results under U.S. GAAP and SEC requirements. Because the transaction will significantly increase the complexity of our global operations, we will need to develop and implement worldwide procedures designed for accurate and timely financial reporting under U.S. GAAP and SEC requirements. In addition, we will need to train the staff of the combined business to comply with these requirements on a global basis. If we are unable to close our books and prepare financial reports on a timely basis, we would be required to seek a reporting extension under applicable SEC rules. A reporting extension could adversely impact the trading of our stock, erode investor confidence and result in other material adverse consequences. In addition, the additional complexities and staff will increase our administrative costs, which will adversely impact our profitability. 38 Table of Contents 