Item 1A. Risk Factors FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, including but not limited to those set forth below, any of which could cause our results to be adversely impacted and could result in a decline in the value or loss of an investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. Risks Related to Our Business We are heavily dependent upon the wireless and consumer electronics industries, and any downturn in these sectors may reduce our net sales. For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, 72%, 91% and 92%, respectively, of our net sales were derived from sales to companies that provide products or services to the wireless industry, including wireless handsets, and approximately 25%, 4% and 0%, respectively, of our net sales were derived from sales to companies that provide products to the consumer electronics industry during those same periods. In general, the wireless and consumer electronics industries are subject to economic cycles and periods of slowdown. Intense competition, relatively short product life cycles and significant fluctuations in product demand characterize these industries, and both industries are also generally subject to rapid technological change and product obsolescence. Fluctuations in demand for our products as a result of periods of slowdown in these markets (including the current economic downturn) or discontinuation of products or modifications developed in connection with next generation products could reduce our net sales. We depend on a limited number of key customers for significant portions of our net sales and if we lose business with any of these customers, our net sales could decline substantially. For the past several years, a substantial portion of our net sales has been derived from products that are incorporated into products manufactured by or on behalf of a limited number of key customers and their subcontractors, including Apple Inc., Motorola, Inc., Research in Motion Limited and Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications. In the fiscal years ended September 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007 approximately 96%, 95% and 93% respectively, of our net sales were to these four customers in the aggregate. In addition, 43%, 45% and 57% of our net sales in each of the fiscal years ended September 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were to one customer (not the same customer in each of the three years) and 80%, 65% and 82% of our net sales were to two of our customers in each of the three years, respectively. The loss of one of these major customers or a significant reduction in sales to any of them would seriously harm our business. Although we are continuing our efforts to reduce dependence on a limited number of customers, net sales attributable to a limited number of customers and their subcontractors are expected to continue to represent a substantial portion of our business for the foreseeable future. We will have difficulty selling our products if customers do not design our flexible printed circuit products into their product offerings or our customers’ product offerings are not commercially successful. We sell our flexible printed circuit products directly or indirectly to OEMs, who include our products and component assemblies in their product offerings. We must continue to design our products into our customers’ product offerings in order to remain competitive. However, our OEM customers may decide not to design our products into their product offerings in the future. If an OEM selects one of our competitors to provide a product instead of us or switches to alternative technologies developed or manufactured by one or more of our competitors, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products to that OEM because changing 13 Table of Contents component providers after the initial production runs begin involves significant cost, time, effort and risk for the OEM. Even if an OEM designs one of our products into its product offering, the product may not be commercially successful, we may not receive any orders from that manufacturer, the OEM may qualify additional vendors for the product or we could be undercut by a competitor’s pricing. Additionally, if an OEM selects one or more of our competitors, they may rely upon such competitors for the life of specific offering and, to the extent possible, subsequent generations of similar offerings. Any of these events would result in fewer sales and reduced profits for us. Our customers have in the past and likely will continue to cancel their orders, change production quantities, delay production or qualify additional vendors, any of which could reduce our net sales and/or increase our expenses. Substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, and we are not always able to predict with certainty the number of orders we will receive or the timing or magnitude of the orders. Our customers may cancel, change or delay product purchase orders with little or no advance notice to us, and we believe customers are doing so with increased frequency. These changes may be for a variety of reasons, including changes in their prospects, the success of their products in the market, reliance on a new vendor and the overall economic forecast. In general, we do not have long-term contractual relationships with our customers that require them to order minimum quantities of our products, and our customers may decide to use another manufacturer or discontinue ordering from us in their discretion. As a result of these factors, we are not always able to forecast accurately the net sales that we will make in a given period. Changes in orders can also result in layoffs and associated severance costs, which in any given financial period could materially adversely affect our financial results. In addition, we are increasingly being required to purchase materials, components and equipment before a customer becomes contractually committed to an order so that we may timely deliver the expected order to the customer. We may increase our production capacity, working capital and overhead in expectation of orders that may never be placed, or, if placed, may be delayed, reduced or canceled. As a result, we may be unable to recover costs that we incur in anticipation of orders that are never placed, such as costs associated with purchased raw materials, components or equipment. Delayed, reduced or canceled orders could also result in write-offs of obsolete inventory and the underutilization of our manufacturing capacity if we decline other potential orders because we expect to use our capacity to produce orders that are later delayed, reduced or canceled. Our industry is extremely competitive, and if we are unable to respond to competitive pressures we may lose sales and our market share could decline. We compete primarily with large flexible printed circuit board manufacturers located throughout Asia, including Taiwan, China, Korea, Japan and Singapore. We believe that the number of companies producing flexible printed circuit boards has increased materially in recent years and may continue to increase. Certain EMS providers have developed or acquired their own flexible printed circuit manufacturing capabilities or have extensive experience in electronics assembly, and in the future may cease ordering products from us or even compete with us on OEM programs. In addition, the number of customers in the market has been decreasing through consolidation and otherwise. Furthermore, many companies in our target customer base may move the design and manufacturing of their products to original design manufacturers in Asia. These factors, among others, make our industry extremely competitive. We believe that one of our principal competitive advantages is our ability to interact closely with our customers throughout the design and engineering process. If we are not successful in addressing these competitive aspects of our business, including maintaining or establishing close relationships with customers in markets in which we compete, we may not be able to grow or maintain our market share or net sales. 14 Table of Contents Our products and their terms of sale are subject to various pressures from our customers and competitors, any of which could harm our gross profits. Our selling prices are affected by changes in overall demand for our products, changes in the specific products our customers buy, pricing of competitors’ products, our products’ life cycles and general economic conditions. In addition, from time to time we may elect to reduce the price of certain programs we produce in order to gain additional orders on those programs. A typical life cycle for one of our products begins with higher prices when the product is introduced and decreasing prices as it matures. To offset price decreases during a product’s life cycle, we rely primarily on higher sales volume and improving our manufacturing yield and productivity to reduce a product’s cost. If we cannot reduce our manufacturing costs as prices decline during a product’s life cycle, or if we are required to pay damages to a customer due to a breach of contract or other claim, including due to quality or delivery issues, our cost of sales may increase, which would harm our profitability. In addition, our key customers and their subcontractors are able to exert significant pricing pressure on us and often require us to renegotiate the terms of our arrangements with them, including liability and indemnification thresholds and payment terms, among other terms. Changes in contract terms, the extension of payment terms and regular price reductions may result in lower gross margins for us. These trends make it more difficult to compete effectively and put increased pressure on our pricing. Significant product failures could harm our reputation and our business. Continued improvement in manufacturing capabilities, quality control, material costs and successful product testing capabilities are critical to our growth. Our efforts to monitor, develop, modify and implement stringent testing and manufacturing processes for our products may not be sufficient. If any flaw in the design, production, assembly or testing of our products were to occur, we could experience a rate of failure in our products that would result in significant delays in product shipments by, or cancellation of orders or, substantial penalties from, our customers and their customers, substantial repair or replacement costs, an increased return rate for our products and potential damage to our reputation. Problems with manufacturing yields and/or our inability to ramp up production could impair our ability to meet customer demand for our products. We could experience low manufacturing yields due to, among other things, design errors, manufacturing failures in new or existing products, the inexperience of new employees, component defects, or the learning curve experienced during the initial and ramp up stages of new product introduction. If we cannot achieve expected yields in the manufacture of our products, this could result in higher operating costs, which could result in higher per unit costs, reduced product availability and may be subject to substantial penalties by our customers. Reduced yields can significantly harm our gross margins, resulting in lower profitability or even losses. In addition, if we were unable to ramp up our production in order to meet customer demand, whether due to yield or other issues, it would impair our ability to meet customer demand for our products, and our net sales and profitability would be negatively affected. We must develop and adopt new technology and manufacture new products and product features in order to remain competitive, and we may not be able to do so successfully. Our long-term strategy relies in part on timely adopting, developing and manufacturing technological advances and new products and product features to meet our customers’ needs, including advanced technologies such as rigid flex and high density interconnect. However, any new technology and products adopted or developed by us may not be selected by existing or potential customers. Our customers could decide to switch to alternative technologies, adopt new or competing industry standards with which our products are incompatible or fail to adopt standards with which our products are compatible. If we choose to focus on new technology or a standard that is ultimately not accepted by the industry and/or does not become the industry standard, we may be 15 Table of Contents unable to sell those products. If we are unable to obtain customer qualifications for new products or product features, cannot qualify our products for high-volume production quantities or do not execute our operational and strategic plans for new products or advanced technologies in a timely manner, our net sales may decrease. In addition, we may incur higher manufacturing costs in connection with new technology, products or product features, as we may be required to replace, modify, design, build and install equipment, all of which would require additional capital expenditures. If we are unable to attract or retain personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to develop and market our products successfully could be harmed. We believe that our success is highly dependent on our current executive officers and management team. We do not have an employment contract with Reza Meshgin, our president and chief executive officer, or any of our other key personnel, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. The loss of any key employee or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including engineers, sales and marketing personnel, management or finance personnel could delay the development and introduction of our products, harm our reputation or otherwise damage our business. Furthermore, we have experienced higher than average employee turnover in our facilities in China, and are experiencing increased difficulty in recruiting employees for these facilities. A large number of our employees work in our facilities in China, and our costs associated with hiring these employees have increased over the past several years. The high turnover rate and our difficulty in recruiting and retaining employees have resulted in an increase in our expenses related to recruitment and training of qualified employees and a continuation of this trend could result in even higher costs for us. We must continue to be able to procure raw materials and components on commercially reasonable terms to manufacture our products profitably. Generally we do not maintain a large surplus stock of raw materials or components for our products because the specific assemblies are uniquely applicable to the products we produce for our customers; therefore, we rely on third-party suppliers to provide these raw materials and components in a timely fashion and on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, we are often required by our customers to seek components from a limited number of suppliers that have been pre-qualified by the customer and, from time to time we have experienced shortages of the components and raw materials used in the fabrication of our products. For example, certain of our suppliers reduced their capacity in connection with the economic slowdown, and we have experienced shortages in flexible printed circuit materials due to such reduction in capacity. In addition, we have previously experienced component shortages, which resulted in delayed shipments to customers. We expect that these delays could occur in future periods. We may not be successful in managing any shortage of raw materials or components that we may experience in the future, which could adversely affect our relationships with our customers and result in a decrease in our net sales. Component shortages could also increase our cost of goods sold because we may be required to pay higher prices for components in short supply. In addition, suppliers could go out of business, discontinue the supply of key materials, or consider us too small of a customer to sell to directly, and could require us to buy through distributors, increasing the cost of such components to us. Our manufacturing and shipping costs may also be impacted by fluctuations in the cost of oil and gas. Any fluctuations in the supply or prices of these commodities could have an adverse effect on our profit margins and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents Our global operations expose us to additional risk and uncertainties. We have operations in a number of countries, including the United States, China, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Malaysia and Singapore. Our global operations may be subject to risks that may limit our ability to operate our business. We manufacture the bulk of our products in China and sell our products globally, which exposes us to a number of risks that can arise from international trade transactions, local business practices and cultural considerations, including: • political unrest, terrorism and economic or financial instability; • restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and uncertainty related to developing legal and regulatory systems related to economic and business activities; • nationalization programs that may be implemented by foreign governments; • import-export regulations; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables; • difficulties in ensuring compliance with the laws and regulations of multiple jurisdictions; • limited intellectual property protection; • longer payment cycles; • currency exchange fluctuations; • inadequate local infrastructure and disruptions of service from utilities or telecommunications providers, including electricity shortages; • transportation delays and difficulties in managing international distribution channels; • difficulties in staffing foreign subsidiaries and in managing an expatriate workforce; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • differing employment practices and labor issues; • the occurrence of natural disasters or other acts of force majeure; and • public health emergencies such as SARS, avian flu and Swine flu. We also face risks associated with currency exchange and convertibility, inflation and repatriation of earnings as a result of our foreign operations. In some countries, economic, monetary and regulatory factors could affect our ability to convert funds to U.S. dollars or move funds from accounts in these countries. We are also vulnerable to appreciation or depreciation of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar. Although we have significant operations in Asia, a substantial portion of transactions are denominated in U.S. dollars, including approximately 90% of the total shipments made to foreign manufacturers during fiscal year 2009. The balance of our net sales is denominated in RMB. As a result, if appreciation against the U.S. dollar were to increase, it would result in an increase in the cost of our business expenses in China. Further, downward fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may make our products less price competitive than local solutions. We do not currently engage in currency hedging activities to limit the risks of currency fluctuations. In addition, our activities in China are subject to administrative review and approval by various national and local agencies of China’s government. Given the changes occurring in China’s legal and regulatory structure, we may not be able to secure required governmental approval for our activities or facilities. For example, in 2007 we were informed that one of our facilities in China no longer meets the current fire department regulations. If we were required to take immediate corrective action, it could adversely affect our ability to maintain or expand our operations at that facility and/or increase our costs. In addition, certain of our insurance policies may be deemed to be ineffective without a current fire certificate. 17 Table of Contents We are in the process of increasing our manufacturing capacity, and we may have difficulty managing these changes. We are engaged in a number of manufacturing expansion projects, including a new MFC3 manufacturing facility and the establishment of manufacturing functions in Malaysia and Chengdu, China. In addition, we have been engaged in an international restructuring effort to transition various business functions to our offices in Singapore, in order to better align these activities with our international operations. Although we intend to manage development of these expansion activities and requisite capital expenditures in discrete phases, these efforts require significant investment by us, and have in the past and could continue to result in increased expenses and inefficiencies and reduced gross margins. Our management team may have difficulty managing our manufacturing expansion projects or otherwise managing any growth in our business that we may experience. Risks associated with managing expansion and growth may include those related to: • managing multiple, concurrent major manufacturing expansion projects; • hiring and retaining employees, particularly in China; • accurately predicting any increases or decreases in demand for our products and managing our manufacturing capacity appropriately; • managing increased employment costs and scrap rates often associated with periods of growth; • implementing, integrating and improving operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including our computer systems; • construction delays, equipment delays or shortages, labor shortages and disputes and production start-up problems; • cost overruns and charges related to our expansion activities; and • managing expanding operations in multiple locations and multiple time zones. Our management team may not be effective in expanding our manufacturing facilities and operations, and our systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support such expansion. Any inability to manage our growth may harm our profitability and growth. If we encounter problems during the upgrade of our information systems, we could experience a disruption of our operations and unanticipated increases in our costs. We are in the process of a global upgrade of our Enterprise Resource Planning system. Any problems encountered in the upgrade of this system could result in material adverse consequences, including disruption of operations, loss of information and unanticipated increases in costs. WBL Corporation Limited beneficially owns approximately 59% of our outstanding common stock and is able to exert influence over us and our major corporate decisions. WBL Corporation Limited, together with its affiliates and subsidiaries (“WBL”) beneficially owns approximately 59% of our outstanding common stock, and we expect to be a principal subsidiary of WBL for the foreseeable future. As a result of this ownership interest and the resulting influence over the composition of our board of directors, WBL has influence over our management, operations and potential significant corporate actions. For example, so long as WBL continues to control more than a majority of our outstanding common stock, it will have the ability to control who is elected to our board of directors each year. In addition, for so long as WBL effectively owns at least one-third of our voting stock, it has the ability, through a stockholders agreement with us, to approve the appointment of any new chief executive officer or the issuance of securities that would reduce WBL’s effective ownership of us to a level that is below a majority of our outstanding shares 18 Table of Contents of common stock, as determined on a fully diluted basis. As a result, WBL could preclude us from engaging in an acquisition or other strategic opportunity that we may want to pursue if such acquisition or opportunity required the issuance of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company, which could deprive our other stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their stock as part of a sale of our company, could harm the market price of our common stock and could impede the growth of our company. WBL could also sell a controlling interest in us to a third party, including a participant in our industry, or buy additional shares of our stock. We also make purchases from MFS Technology Pte. Ltd. (“MFS”) and MFS Technologies (Hunan) Co. Ltd., a subsidiary of MFS. MFS is an indirect subsidiary of WBL. WBL and its designees on our board of directors may have interests that conflict with, or are different from, the interests of our other stockholders. These conflicts of interest could include potential competitive business activities, corporate opportunities, indemnity arrangements, sales or distributions by WBL of our common stock and the exercise by WBL of its ability to influence our management and affairs. In general, our certificate of incorporation does not contain any provision that is designed to facilitate resolution of actual or potential conflicts of interest. If any conflict of interest is not resolved in a manner favorable to our stockholders, our stockholders’ interests may be substantially harmed. WBL is currently unable to vote its shares on specified matters that require stockholder approval without obtaining its own stockholders’ and regulatory approval and it is possible that WBL’s stockholders or the relevant regulators may not approve the proposed corporate action. WBL’s ordinary shares are listed on the Singapore Securities Exchange Trading Limited (the “Singapore Exchange”). Under the rules of the Singapore Exchange, to the extent that we constitute a principal subsidiary of WBL as defined by the rules of the Singapore Exchange at any time that we submit a matter for the approval of our stockholders, WBL may be required to obtain the approval of its own stockholders for such action before it can vote its shares with respect to our proposal or dispose of our shares of common stock. Examples of corporate actions we may seek to take that may require WBL to obtain its stockholders’ approval include an amendment of our certificate of incorporation, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets, a merger or reorganization transaction, and certain issuances of our capital stock. To obtain stockholder approval, WBL must prepare a circular describing the proposal, obtain approval from the Singapore Exchange and send the circular to its stockholders, which may take several weeks or longer. In addition, WBL is required under its corporate rules to give its stockholders advance notice of the meeting. Consequently, if we need to obtain the approval of WBL at a time in which we qualify as a principal subsidiary (including this year), the process of seeking WBL’s stockholder approval may delay our proposed action and it is possible that WBL’s stockholders may not approve our proposed corporate action. It is also possible that we might not be able to establish a quorum at our stockholder meeting if WBL was unable to vote at the meeting as a result of the Singapore Exchange rules. The rules of the Singapore Exchange that govern WBL are subject to revision from time to time, and policy considerations may affect rule interpretation and application. It is possible that any change to or interpretation of existing or future rules may be more restrictive and complex than the existing rules and interpretations. Our business requires significant investments in capital equipment, facilities and technological improvements, and we may not be able to obtain sufficient funds to make such capital expenditures. To remain competitive we must continue to make significant investments in capital equipment, facilities and technological improvements. We expect that substantial capital will be required to expand our manufacturing capacity and fund working capital requirements for our anticipated growth. In addition, we expect that new technology requirements may increase the capital intensity of our business. We may need to raise additional funds through further debt or equity financings in order to fund our anticipated growth and capital expenditures, and we may not be able to raise additional capital on reasonable terms, or at all, particularly given the current 19 Table of Contents turmoil in global credit markets. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital in the future, we may have to curtail our capital expenditures. Any curtailment of our capital expenditures could result in a reduction in net sales, reduced quality of our products, increased manufacturing costs for our products, harm to our reputation, reduced manufacturing efficiencies or other harm to our business. In addition, WBL’s approval is required for the issuance of securities that would reduce its effective ownership of us to below a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock as determined on a fully diluted basis. If WBL’s approval is required for a proposed financing, it is possible that it may not approve the financing and we may not be able to complete the transaction, which could make it more difficult to obtain sufficient funds to operate and expand our business. The global credit market crisis and economic weakness may adversely affect our earnings, liquidity and financial condition. Global financial and credit markets recently have been, and continue to be, unstable and unpredictable. Worldwide economic conditions have been weak. The instability of the markets and weakness of the economy could affect the demand for our customers’ products, the amount, timing and stability of their orders to us, the financial strength of our customers and suppliers, their ability or willingness to do business with us, our willingness to do business with them, and/or our suppliers’ and customers’ ability to fulfill their obligations to us. These factors could adversely affect our operations, earnings and financial condition. In addition, continued, and potentially increased, volatility, instability and weakness in the financial and credit markets could affect our ability to sell our investment securities and other financial assets, which in turn could adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. A portion of our investment portfolio is in auction rate securities. As of September 30, 2009, we held approximately $13.3 million (par value) of investments consisting of auction rate securities. On September 24, 2009, we accepted an offer from UBS AG (“UBS”), the fund manager with whom we hold our auction rate securities, pursuant to which UBS issued to us Series C-2 Auction Rate Securities Rights (the “Rights”), which allow us to sell our auction rate securities to UBS at par value during the period beginning June 30, 2010 and ending July 2, 2012. In exchange, the Company released UBS from certain claims that it may have for damages related to the auction rate securities, and we granted UBS the right to sell or otherwise dispose of the auction rate securities on its behalf (so long as we are paid the par value of the auction rate securities upon any disposition). The Rights are subject to a number of risks. Given the substantial dislocation in the financial markets and among financial services companies, we cannot assure you that UBS will ultimately have the ability to repurchase our auction rate securities at par, or at any other price during the put period described above. We will be required to periodically assess the economic ability of UBS to meet that obligation in assessing the fair value of the Rights. Moreover, if we choose to not exercise the Rights or if UBS is unable to honor the Rights, our ability to liquidate our investments in the near term may be limited, and our ability to fully recover the carrying value of our investments may be limited or non-existent. If issuers of these securities are unable to successfully close future auctions or their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record further impairment charges on these investments. It could take until the final maturity of the underlying notes to realize our investments’ recorded value. Based on our ability to access our cash and cash equivalents, expected operating cash flows, and our other sources of cash, we do not anticipate that the current lack of liquidity on these investments will affect our ability to continue to operate our business in the ordinary course. However, we can provide no assurance as to when these investments will again become liquid or as to whether we may ultimately have to recognize additional impairment charges in our results of operations with respect to these investments. 20 Table of Contents We are subject to the risk of increased income tax rates and other taxes. A number of countries in which we are located allow for tax holidays or provide other tax incentives to attract and retain business. We currently enjoy tax holidays and other tax incentives for certain of our operations in Asia, including a tax holiday for our second manufacturing facility in China, MFC2, and tax incentives for our facility in Singapore. However, any tax holidays we may receive may be challenged, modified or even eliminated by taxing authorities or changes in law. Our taxes could increase if tax holidays or incentives are not renewed upon expiration, or if tax rates applicable to us are otherwise increased. For example, in March 2007, the Chinese government passed a new unified enterprise income tax law which became effective on January 1, 2008. Among other things, this law cancelled certain income tax incentives and increased the standard withholding rate on earnings distributions. The effect of these and other changes in Chinese tax laws on our overall tax rate will be affected by, among other things, our income, the manner in which China interprets, implements and applies the new tax provisions and our ability to qualify for any exceptions or new incentives. In addition, from time to time we may be subject to various types of tax audits and in light of recent proposed tax law changes in the United States, it is possible our tax rates in future periods may increase. If we fail to secure or protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technologies, which could weaken our competitive position and harm our business. We rely primarily on trade secrets and confidentiality procedures relating to our manufacturing processes to protect our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts, these measures can only provide limited protection. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. If we fail to protect our proprietary rights adequately, our competitors could offer similar products using processes or technologies developed by us, potentially harming our competitive position. In addition, other parties may independently develop similar or competing technologies. We also rely on patent protection for some of our intellectual property. Our patents may be expensive to obtain and there is no guarantee that either our current or future patents will provide us with any competitive advantages. A third party may challenge the validity of our patents, or circumvent our patents by developing competing products based on technology that does not infringe our patents. Further, patent protection is not available at all in certain countries and some countries that do allow registration of patents do not provide meaningful redress for patent violations. As a result, protecting intellectual property in those countries is difficult, and competitors could sell products in those countries that have functions and features that would otherwise infringe on our intellectual property. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors may gain access to our technology and our business may be harmed. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. From time to time, we have received, and expect to continue to receive, notices of claims of infringement, misappropriation or misuse of other parties’ proprietary rights. We could also be subject to claims arising from the allocation of intellectual property rights among us and our customers. Any claims brought against us or our customers, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle, and could divert management attention away from our business plan. Adverse determinations in litigation could subject us to significant liability and could result in the loss of our proprietary rights. A successful lawsuit against us could also force us to cease selling or require us to redesign any products that incorporate the infringed intellectual property. In addition, we could be required to seek a license from the holder of the intellectual property to use the infringed technology, and it is possible that we may not be able to obtain a license on reasonable terms, or at all. If we fail to develop a non-infringing technology on a timely basis or to license the infringed technology on acceptable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Complying with environmental laws and regulations may increase our costs and reduce our profitability. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture, use and disposal of chemicals, solid and hazardous waste and other 21 Table of Contents toxic and hazardous materials used in the manufacture of flexible printed circuits and component assemblies in our operations in the United States and Asia. A significant portion of our manufacturing operations are located in China, where we are subject to constantly evolving environmental regulation. The costs of complying with any change in such regulations and the costs of remedying potential violations or resolving enforcement actions that might be initiated by governmental entities in China could be substantial. In the event of a violation, we may be required to halt one or more segments of our operations until such violation is cured. The costs of remedying violations or resolving enforcement actions that might be initiated by governmental authorities could be substantial. Any remediation of environmental contamination would involve substantial expense that could harm our results of operations. In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our operations may be subject or the manner in which existing or future laws will be administered or interpreted. Future regulations may be applied to materials, products or activities that have not been subject to regulation previously. The costs of complying with new or more stringent regulations could be significant. Potential future acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, divert the attention of key management personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we intend to continue to consider acquisitions of companies, technologies and products that we feel could enhance our capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our markets or customer base. We have limited experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies. Potential and completed acquisitions and strategic investments involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, accounting and personnel; • problems maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies; • difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers of our acquired companies; • diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; • risks associated with entering new markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • potential loss of key employees; and • inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset acquisition or start-up costs. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could affect the market price of our stock. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. We face potential risks associated with loss, theft or damage of our property or property of our customers. Some of our customers have entrusted us with proprietary equipment or intellectual property to be used in the design, manufacture and testing of the products we make for them. In some instances, we face potentially millions of dollars in financial exposure to those customers if such equipment or intellectual property is lost, damaged or stolen. Although we take precautions against such loss, theft or damage and we may insure against a portion of these risks, such insurance is expensive, may not be applicable to any loss we may experience and, even if applicable, may not be sufficient to cover any such loss. Further, deductibles for such insurance may be substantial and may adversely affect our operations if we were to experience a loss, even if insured. Litigation may distract us from operating our business. Litigation that may be brought by or against us could cause us to incur significant expenditures and distract our management from the operations and conduct of our business. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that 22 Table of Contents we would prevail in such litigation or resolve such litigation on terms favorable to us, which may adversely affect our operations. The trading price of our common stock is volatile. The trading prices of the securities of technology companies, including the trading price of our common stock, have historically been highly volatile. During the 12 months ended September 30, 2009, our common stock traded between $7.48 and $30.56 per share. Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock include, but are not limited to: • fluctuations in our financial results; • announcements of technological innovations or events affecting other companies in our industry; • changes in the estimates of our financial results; • changes in the recommendations of any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; and • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole. In addition, although we have approximately 25 million shares of common stock outstanding, approximately 14.8 million of those shares are held by a few investors. As a result, there is a limited public float in our common stock. If any of our significant stockholders were to decide to sell a substantial portion of its shares the trading price of our common stock could decline. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. This effort is made more challenging by our significant overseas operations. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our operating results could be misstated, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting and the trading price of our stock could be negatively affected. There can be no assurance that our internal controls over financial processes and reporting will be effective in the future. Delaware law and our corporate charter and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management including, among other things, provisions providing for a classified board of directors, authorizing the board of directors to issue preferred stock and the elimination of stockholder voting by written consent. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may discourage, delay or prevent certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions in our charter, bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage delay or prevent potential takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, our stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if our stock price appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which it was purchased. 23 Table of Contents 