ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We may experience higher loan losses than we have reserved for in our financial statements. Our loan losses could exceed the allowance for loan losses that we have reserved for in our financial statements. Reliance on historic loan loss experience may not be indicative of future loan losses. Regardless of the underwriting criteria we utilized at the time of purchase or origination, losses may be experienced as a result of various factors beyond our control, including, among other things, changes in market conditions affecting the value of our loan collateral and problems affecting the credit and business of our borrowers. As a result of the rapid and substantial deterioration in the housing and credit markets, particularly the subprime mortgage market, and deterioration in the performance of our portfolios of acquired and originated loans, including particularly the portfolio of acquired second-lien mortgage loans, we reassessed our allowance for loan losses in the quarter ended September 30, 2007, which resulted in significantly increased estimates of inherent losses in our portfolios. Should the housing and credit markets continue to deteriorate significantly in 2008, or the economy experience a severe or prolonged recession, we could experience additional allowances for loan losses and/or charge-offs. A prolonged economic slowdown or a lengthy or severe recession could harm our operations, particularly if it results in a decline in the real estate market. The risks associated with our business are more acute during periods of economic slowdown or recession because these periods may be accompanied by decreased real estate values, loss of jobs as well as an increased rate of delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures. In particular, any material decline in real estate values would increase the loan-to-value ratios on loans that we hold and, therefore, weaken our collateral coverage, increase the likelihood of a borrower with little or no equity in his or her home defaulting and increase the possibility of a loss if a borrower defaults. If the current economic slowdown continues to worsen, our business could experience even greater losses. Our credit facilities require us to observe certain covenants, and our failure to satisfy such covenants could render us insolvent. Our credit facilities with the bank, as modified by the Forbearance Agreements, require us to comply with affirmative and negative covenants customary for restricted indebtedness, including covenants requiring that we will: maintain a minimum consolidated net worth of at least $5 million, plus a certain percentage, to be mutually agreed upon, of any equity investment in the Company after the date of the Restructuring; maintain a minimum liquidity of $5 million; not enter into mergers, consolidations or sales of assets (subject to certain exceptions); and, will not, without the bank’s consent, enter into any material change in our capital structure that the bank or a nationally recognized independent public accounting firm determines could cause a consolidation of our assets with other persons under relevant accounting regulations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Borrowings.” In addition, under our credit facilities, if our controlling shareholder ceasing to possess, directly or indirectly, the power to direct our management and policies through his ownership of our voting stock, this could constitute an event of default, which, without a waiver from our lender, would cause our indebtedness to become immediately payable. Subject to notice and cure period requirements where they are provided for, any unwaived and uncured breach of the covenants applicable to our debt with either of our lenders could result in acceleration of the amounts owed to such lender and the cross-default and acceleration of the indebtedness owing to the other lender. 30 Table of Contents If our lenders fail to renew our loans for additional terms or provide us with refinancing opportunities, our indebtedness will become due and payable in 2009. Our unpaid principal balances owed to the bank and BOS are generally based on amortization schedules, but mature in May and March 2009, respectively. The facilities do not include a commitment to refinance the remaining outstanding balance of the loans when they mature and there is no guarantee that our lenders will renew their loans at that time. Refusal to provide us with renewals or refinancing opportunities would cause our indebtedness to become immediately due and payable upon the contractual maturity of such indebtedness, which could result in our insolvency if we are unable to repay the debt. If we do not comply with certain minimum servicing standards in the Forbearance Agreements with the bank, the bank can transfer our rights as servicer to a third party. Under the terms of the Forbearance Agreements, we are entitled to continue to service the collateral we pledged under the Forbearance Agreements. However, the bank has the right to replace us as servicer in the event of a default or if the bank determines that we are not servicing the collateral in accordance with accepted servicing practices, as defined in the Forbearance Agreements. If the bank terminated us as servicer of the collateral our operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our ability to fund operating expenses depends on our principal lender continuing to provide an adequate operating allowance. We are required to submit all payments we receive from obligors under pledged mortgage loans to a lockbox, from which we receive an operating allowance, which is subject to periodic review and approval by the bank, to sustain our business. Substantially all amounts submitted to the lockbox in excess of the agreed upon operating allowance are used to pay down amounts outstanding under our credit facilities with the bank and BOS. The operating allowance may not be sufficient to sustain our operations in the future, particularly for new business activities. If it is insufficient, there is no guarantee that the bank will increase our operating allowance, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our business is sensitive to, and can be materially affected by, changes in interest rates. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates, particularly changes that are unexpected in timing or size. The following are some of the risks we face related to an increase in interest rates: • All of our borrowings bear interest at variable rates and we are only partially hedged through interest rate swaps and caps, while a significant majority of the loans in our portfolio have fixed rates. As a result, an increase in interest rates is likely to result in an increase in our interest expense without an offsetting increase in interest income. Further, our adjustable-rate loans typically provide for less frequent adjustments in response to rate increases than do our borrowings, and sometimes also include interest rate caps. To the extent this is the case, an increase in interest rates would result in a greater increase in our interest expense than in our interest income, which would adversely affect our profitability. • An increase in interest rates would adversely affect the value that we would receive upon a sale of loans that bear interest at fixed rates, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. • An increase in our borrowing costs without an offsetting increase in revenue would cause our cash flow to decrease, which in turn may have an adverse impact on our ability to meet our monthly debt service obligations. In the event we are unable to meet our monthly debt service obligations for this or for any other reason, we would be in default under the obligations of our credit facilities and our lenders would have the right to accelerate payments under these facilities. • An increase in interest rates would result in a slowdown of borrower prepayments and a reduction of revenue as purchase discount accreted into income would decline. An increase in interest rates may also lead to an increase in our borrower defaults, if borrowers have difficulties making their adjustable-rate mortgage payments, and a corresponding increase in nonperforming assets, which could decrease our 31 Table of Contents revenues and our cash flows, increase our loan servicing costs and our provision for loan losses, and adversely affect our profitability. We are also subject to risks from decreasing interest rates. For example, a significant decrease in interest rates could increase the rate at which loans are prepaid and reduce our interest income in subsequent periods. The bank may prevent our pursuing future business opportunities. The Forbearance Agreements prohibit our originating or acquiring mortgage loans or other assets, entering into new business activities such as providing mortgage servicing, due diligence or brokerage services to third parties, making certain material changes to our capital structure or participating in off-balance sheet joint ventures and special purpose vehicles, without the prior consent of the bank. The bank’s withholding such consent could preclude our pursuing future business opportunities. We use estimates for recognizing revenue on a majority of our portfolio investments and our earnings would be reduced if actual results are less than our estimates. We recognize income from the purchase discount on our portfolio of notes receivable using the interest method. We use this method only if we can reasonably estimate the expected amount and timing of cash to be collected based on historic experience and other factors. We reevaluate estimated future cash flows quarterly. If future cash collections are less than what we estimated they would be, we would recognize less than anticipated purchase discount, which would reduce our earnings. When we acquired S&D loans, the price we paid was based on a number of assumptions. Material differences between the assumptions we used in determining the value of S&D loans we acquired and our actual experience could harm our financial position. The purchase price and carrying value of the S&D loans we previously acquired was determined largely by estimating expected future cash flows from such loans based on the delinquency, loss, prepayment speed and discount rate assumptions we used. If the amount and timing of actual cash flows are materially different from our estimates, our cash flow and profitability would be materially adversely affected and we could be required to record further write-downs and/or increases to our reserves, which could adversely affect our financial condition. If we do not obtain and maintain the appropriate state licenses, we will not be allowed to broker or service mortgage loans in some states, which would adversely affect our operations. State mortgage finance licensing laws vary considerably. Most states and the District of Columbia impose a licensing obligation to broker or originate first and/or subordinate residential mortgage loans. In some of the states that impose a licensing obligation to broker or originate residential mortgage loans, the licensing obligation also arises to purchase closed mortgage loans. Many of those mortgage licensing laws impose a licensing obligation to service residential mortgage loans. Certain state collection agency licensing laws require entities collecting on delinquent or defaulted loans for others or to acquire such loans to be licensed. If we are unable to obtain the appropriate state licenses or do not qualify for an exemption, our operations may be adversely affected. Additionally, if we do not meet certain requirements, such as minimum net worth or line of credit requirements, our licenses in certain states may be revoked or suspended and we may not be able to continue to broker or service loans, which could adversely affect our operations and financial condition and ability to attract new servicing clients. Our negative net worth as of September 30, 2007 may have resulted in our non-compliance with the licensure requirements of certain states as of that date. Although we subsequently restored our compliance with the net worth requirements as of December 31, 2007, certain states may determine to take action, including revocation of our licenses or assessment of fines, because of our temporary non-compliance, in which case our business could be adversely affected. 32 Table of Contents A significant amount of our mortgage loan originations are secured by property in New York and New Jersey, and our operations could be harmed by economic downturns or other adverse events in these states. A significant portion of Tribeca’s mortgage loan origination activity was concentrated in the northeastern United States, particularly in New York and New Jersey. Of the loans originated by Tribeca and held for investment as of December 31, 2007, a majority of the aggregate principal was secured by property in these two states. An overall decline in the economy or the residential real estate market, a continuing decline in home prices, or the occurrence of events such as a natural disaster or an act of terrorism in the northeastern United States could decrease the value of residential properties in this region. This could result in an increase in the risk of delinquency, default or foreclosure on mortgage loans in our portfolio, which could reduce our revenues, increase our loan losses and/or charge-offs and reduce our profitability. We may not be adequately protected against the risks inherent in subprime residential mortgage loans. The vast majority of the loans we originated were underwritten generally in accordance with standards designed for subprime residential mortgages. Mortgage loans underwritten under these underwriting standards are likely to experience rates of delinquency, foreclosure and loss that are higher, and may be substantially higher, than prime residential mortgage loans. A majority of the loans previously originated by Tribeca were made under a “limited documentation” program, which generally placed the most significant emphasis on the loan-to-value ratio based on the appraised value of the property, and not, or to a lesser extent, on a determination of the borrower’s ability to repay the loan. Our past underwriting and loan servicing practices may not afford adequate protection against the higher risks associated with loans made to such borrowers particularly in a poor housing and credit market or an economic recession. If we are unable to mitigate these risks, our cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be materially harmed. A number of our second lien mortgage loans are subordinated to ARM or interest-only mortgages that may be subject to monthly payment increases, which may result in delinquencies and increase our risk of loss on these loans. A number of the second lien mortgage loans that we acquired are subordinated to an adjustable rate mortgage held by a third party that was originated in a period of unusually low interest rates or originated with a below market interest rate, or to an interest-only mortgage. A substantial majority of these ARMs bore a fixed rate for the first two or three years of the loan, followed by annual interest and payment rate resets. As short-term interest rates have generally risen since June 2004, holders of ARM loans may face monthly payment increases following their first interest rate adjustment date. Similarly, interest-only loans typically require principal payments to be made after the first one or two years from the date of the loan. The decreased availability of refinancing alternatives has impacted the run-off that typically occurs as an ARM nears its first rate reset or the interest-only loans begin to require the payment of principal. Interest rate adjustments or principal becoming payable on first lien mortgages may also have a direct impact on a borrower’s ability to repay any underlying second lien mortgage loan on a property. As a result, delinquencies on these loans may increase and our ability to recover the principal of these loans may be further adversely affected. We are subject to losses due to fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, mortgage brokers, sellers of loans we acquired, vendors and our employees. When we acquired and originated mortgage loans, we typically relied heavily upon information supplied by third parties, including the information contained in the loan application, property appraisal, title information and, employment and income stated on the loan application. If any of this information was intentionally or negligently misrepresented and such misrepresentation was not detected prior to the acquisition or funding of the loan, the value of the loan may end up being significantly lower than expected. Whether a misrepresentation was made by the loan applicant, the mortgage broker, another third party or one of our employees, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation except when we purchased loans pursuant to contracts that include a right of return and the seller remains sufficiently creditworthy to render such right meaningful. 33 Table of Contents We may not be successful in entering into or implementing our planned business of providing servicing and other mortgage related services for other entities on a fee-paying basis. The servicing and mortgage related services industries are highly competitive. The Company has not historically provided such services to unrelated third parties. Additionally, the absence of a rating by a statistical rating agency as a primary or special servicer of residential mortgage loans may make it difficult to compete or effectively market the Company’s ability to adequately service mortgage loans to entities that rely on such ratings as a factor in the selection of a servicer for their loans. If we do not succeed in entering the business of providing such services to third parties, or prove unable to provide such services on a profitable basis, such a failure could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. The success and growth of our servicing business will depend on our ability to adapt to and implement technological changes, and any failure to do so could result in a material adverse effect on our business. Our mortgage loan servicing business is dependent upon our ability to effectively adapt to technological advances, such as the ability to automate loan servicing, process borrower payments and provide customer information over the Internet, accept electronic signatures and provide instant status updates. The intense competition in our industry has led to rapid technological developments, evolving industry standards and frequent releases of new products and enhancements. The failure to acquire new technologies or technological solutions when necessary could limit our ability to remain competitive in our industry and our ability to increase the cost-efficiencies of our servicing operation, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Alternatively, adapting to technological changes in the industry to remain competitive may require us to make significant and costly changes to our loan servicing and information systems, which could in turn increase operating costs. If we do not manage the changes in our businesses effectively, our financial performance could be harmed. As we exit the acquisition and origination businesses and seek to engage in new businesses, our future growth could require capital resources beyond what we currently possess, which would place certain pressures on our infrastructure. Our future profitability will similarly depend on the proper management of our wind-down of the businesses we no longer operate. We will need to continue to upgrade and expand our financial, operational and managerial systems and controls, particularly our servicing systems and resources. If we do not manage the changes in our business effectively, our expenses could increase, our loan delinquencies and defaults could continue to accelerate and our business, liquidity and financial condition could be further significantly harmed. The inability to attract and retain qualified employees could significantly harm our business. We continually need to attract, hire and successfully integrate additional qualified personnel in an intensely competitive hiring environment in order to manage and operate our business. The market for skilled management, professional and loan servicing personnel is highly competitive. Competition for qualified personnel may lead to increased hiring and retention costs. If we are unable to attract, successfully integrate and retain a sufficient number of skilled personnel at manageable costs, we will be unable to continue to service mortgage loans, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. As our business evolves and we wind-down our acquisition and origination operations and seek to provide servicing and other mortgage related services for other entities, retaining key employees and hiring for certain critical positions can become more challenging. An interruption in or breach of our information systems may result in lost business and increased expenses. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of or damage to our information systems or the third-party information systems on which we rely could cause us to be noncompliant with significant federal and state regulations relating to the handling of customer information, particularly with respect to maintaining the confidentiality of such information. A failure, interruption or breach of our information systems could result in regulatory action 34 Table of Contents and litigation against us. We cannot assure you that such failures or interruptions will not occur or if they do occur that they will be adequately addressed by us or the third parties on which we rely. We are exposed to the risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on defaulted mortgage loans and take title to the properties underlying those mortgages. If we do take title, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. Hazardous substances or wastes, contaminants, pollutants or sources thereof may be discovered on these properties during our ownership or after a sale to a third party. Environmental defects can reduce the value of and make it more difficult to sell such properties, and we may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation, and cleanup costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. These costs could be substantial. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. Although we have not to date incurred any environmental liabilities in connection with our real estate owned, there can be no guarantee that we will not incur any such liabilities in the future. A loss of our Chairman may adversely affect our operations. Thomas J. Axon, our Chairman and President, is responsible for making substantially all of the most significant policy and managerial decisions in our business operations. These decisions are paramount to the success and future growth of our business. Mr. Axon is also instrumental in maintaining our relationship with the bank and our operations under the terms of the Forbearance Agreements. A loss of the services of Mr. Axon could disrupt and adversely affect our operations. Risks Related to Our Financial Statements We may become subject to liability and incur increased expenditures as a result of the restatement of our financial statements. The restatement of our previously issued financial statements in 2006 could expose us to government investigation or legal action. The defense of any such actions could cause the diversion of management’s attention and resources, and we could be required to pay damages to settle such actions or if any such actions are not resolved in our favor. Even if resolved in our favor, such actions could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. Moreover, we may be the subject of negative publicity focusing on any financial statement inaccuracies and resulting restatement and negative reactions from shareholders, creditors, or others with which we do business. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could harm our business and reputation and cause the price of our securities to decline. We may become subject to liability and incur increased expenditures as a result of our reassessment of our allowance for loan losses. As a result of the rapid and substantial deterioration in the housing and credit markets, particularly the subprime mortgage sector, and deterioration in the performance of our portfolios of acquired and originated loans, we reassessed our allowance for loan losses in the quarter ended September 30, 2007, which resulted in significantly increased estimates of inherent losses in our portfolios of loans. The reassessment of our allowance for loan losses could expose us to legal action or government investigation. The defense of any such actions could cause the diversion of management’s attention and resources, and we could be required to pay damages to settle such actions or if any such actions are not resolved in our favor. Even if resolved in our favor, such actions could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. Moreover, we may be the subject of negative publicity focusing on the incurred allowance and negative reactions from shareholders, creditors, or others with which we do business. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could harm our business and reputation and cause the price of our securities to decline. 35 Table of Contents Failures in our internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures could lead to material errors in our financial statements and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. Such controls are designed to provide reasonable, not absolute assurance that we are providing reliable financial reports. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there is only reasonable assurance that our controls will succeed in achieving their goals under all potential future conditions. If such controls fail to operate effectively, this may result in material errors in our financial statements. Deficiencies in our system of internal controls over financial reporting may require remediation, which could be costly. Failure to remediate such deficiencies or to implement required new or improved controls could lead to material errors in our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, and expose us to government investigation or legal action. Any of these results could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Industry New legislation and regulations directed at curbing predatory lending practices could restrict our ability to price, sell, or finance non-prime residential mortgage loans, which could adversely impact our earnings. The Federal Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act, or HOEPA, identifies a category of residential mortgage loans and subjects such loans to restrictions not applicable to other residential mortgage loans. Loans subject to HOEPA consist of loans on which certain points and fees or the annual percentage rate, which is based on the interest rate and certain finance charges, exceed specified levels. Laws, rules and regulations have been adopted, or are under consideration, at the state and local levels that are similar to HOEPA in that they impose certain restrictions on loans that exceed certain cost parameters. These state and local laws generally have lower thresholds and broader prohibitions than under the federal law. The restrictions include prohibitions on steering borrowers into loans with high interest rates and away from more affordable products, selling unnecessary insurance to borrowers, flipping or repeatedly refinancing loans and originating loans without a reasonable expectation that the borrowers will be able to repay the loans without regard to the value of the mortgaged property. Compliance with some of these restrictions requires lenders to make subjective judgments, such as whether a loan will provide a “net tangible benefit” to the borrower. These restrictions expose a lender to risks of litigation and regulatory sanction no matter how carefully a loan is underwritten and impact the way in which a loan is underwritten. The remedies for violations of these laws are not based on actual harm to the consumer and can result in damages that exceed the loan balance. Liability for violations of HOEPA, as well as violations of many of the state and local equivalents, would extend not only to us, but to assignees, which may include our warehouse lenders and whole-loan buyers, regardless of whether such assignee knew of or participated in the violation. It was our policy not to originate loans that are subject to either HOEPA or these state and local laws and not to purchase high cost loans that violate those laws. If we miscalculated the numerical thresholds described above, however, we may have mistakenly originated or purchased such loans and bear the related marketplace and legal risks and consequences. These thresholds below which we try to originate loans created artificial barriers to production and limited the price at which we offered loans to borrowers and our ability to underwrite, originate, sell and finance mortgage loans. In a number of states, for example, proposed and recently enacted state and local anti-predatory lending laws and regulations broaden the trigger test for loans subject to restrictions. If the numerical thresholds were miscalculated, certain variations of our Liberty Loan product, where the lending decision is or may have been based entirely or primarily on the borrower’s equity in his or her home and not, or to a lesser extent, on a determination of the borrower’s ability to repay the loan, would violate HOEPA and many of these state and local anti-predatory lending laws. In the past, we have sold a portion of our Liberty Loan production to third parties on a whole-loan, servicing-released basis. Going forward, however, our ability to sell the Liberty Loan product to third parties could be impaired if our investors are required or choose to incorporate prohibitions from certain anti-predatory lending practices into their eligibility criteria, even if the laws themselves do not specifically apply to us. 36 Table of Contents We purchased loans that are covered by one of these laws, rules or regulations only if, in our judgment, a loan was made in accordance with our strict legal compliance standards and without undue risk relative to litigation or to the enforcement of the loan according to its terms. The 108th United States Congress considered legislation, such as the Ney-Lucas Responsible Lending Act introduced in 2003, which, among other provisions, would limit fees that a lender is permitted to charge, including prepayment fees, restrict the terms lenders are permitted to include in their loan agreements and increase the amount of disclosure required to be given to potential borrowers. Similar legislation was introduced in the 109th Congress. Certain Members of the 110th Congress, responding to increased foreclosures in the subprime mortgage sector, have indicated that they are considering introducing legislation to restrict risky, higher-interest home loans made to consumers with blemished credit records. On March 27, 2007, the subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit of the U.S. House Committee on Financial Services held a hearing on subprime and predatory lending. State Attorneys General have begun to investigate loan servicers and some State Attorneys General and state banking regulators have formed a foreclosure working group to prevent unnecessary foreclosures. The New York Attorney General has also recently stated that his office will investigate the practices of subprime lenders. There are a number of proposed and recently enacted federal, state and local laws and regulations and guidance addressing mortgage lending and servicing practices. Congress is considering several bills to combat abuses in the mortgage lending market and to provide substantial new protections to mortgage consumers. Also, Congress is considering changes to federal bankruptcy laws that would, if passed, allow judges presiding in Chapter 13 bankruptcy cases to modify the terms of mortgages secured by a borrower’s principal residence, including but not limited to the interest rate, loan maturity and principal balance. At the state level, legislation building on the passage of mortgage lending restrictions in 2007 in states such as Minnesota, Maine, and North Carolina may appear in a number of jurisdictions. State bills attempting to establish new consumer protections governing loan servicing practices and foreclosure procedures are also expected in 2008. There are proposed laws providing greater protections to consumers, pertaining to such activities as maintenance of escrow funds, timely crediting of payments received, limitation on ancillary income, responding to customer inquiries and requirements to conduct loss mitigation. The Federal Reserve Board has proposed changes to HOEPA in Regulation Z (Truth in Lending), which the Federal Reserve Board maintains will protect consumers from unfair or deceptive home mortgage lending and advertising practices. The proposed amendment is not limited to the category of residential mortgage loans currently subject to HOEPA. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has proposed a rule which it maintains will simplify and improve the disclosure requirements for mortgage settlement costs under the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 (RESPA) to protect consumers from unnecessarily high settlement costs. We cannot predict whether or in what form Congress or the various state and local legislatures may enact legislation affecting our business. We are evaluating the potential impact of these initiatives, if enacted, on our lending practices and results of operations. As a result of these and other initiatives, we are unable to predict whether federal, state, or local authorities will require changes in our lending practices in the future, including reimbursement of fees charged to borrowers, or will impose fines. These changes, if required, could adversely affect our profitability, particularly if we make such changes in response to new or amended laws, regulations or ordinances in states where we originate a significant portion of our mortgage loans. The broad scope of our operations exposes us to risks of noncompliance with an increasing and inconsistent body of complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels. Because we may service and may have purchased and originated mortgage loans in all 50 states, we must comply with the laws and regulations pertaining to licensing, disclosure and substantive practices, as well as judicial and administrative decisions, of all of these jurisdictions, as well as an extensive body of federal laws and regulations. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years, and government agencies enforcing these laws, as well as the courts, sometimes interpret the same law in different ways. The laws and regulations of each of these jurisdictions are different, complex and, in some cases, in direct conflict with each other. As our operations grow, it may be more difficult to identify comprehensively and to interpret accurately applicable laws and regulations and to employ properly our policies, procedures 37 Table of Contents and systems and train our personnel effectively with respect to all of these laws and regulations, thereby potentially increasing our exposure to the risks of noncompliance with these laws and regulations. State and local governmental authorities have focused on the lending practices of companies in the non-prime mortgage lending industry, sometimes seeking to impose sanctions for practices such as charging excessive fees, imposing interest rates higher than warranted by the credit risk of the borrower, imposing prepayment fees, failing to adequately disclose the material terms of loans and abusive servicing and collection practices. Our failure to comply with this regulatory regimen can lead to: • civil and criminal liability, including potential monetary penalties; • loss of lending licenses or approved status required for continued servicing operations; • demands for indemnification or loan repurchases from purchasers of our loans; • legal defenses causing delay and expense; • adverse effects on our ability, as servicer, to enforce loans; • the borrower having the right to rescind or cancel the loan transaction; • adverse publicity; • individual and class action lawsuits; • administrative enforcement actions; • damage to our reputation in the industry; • inability to sell our loans; or • inability to obtain credit to fund our operations. Although we have systems and procedures directed to compliance with these legal requirements and believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable federal, state and local statutes, rules and regulations, we cannot assure you that more restrictive laws and regulations will not be adopted in the future, or that governmental bodies or courts will not interpret existing laws or regulations in a more restrictive manner, which could render our current business practices non-compliant or which could make compliance more difficult or expensive. These applicable laws and regulations are subject to administrative or judicial interpretation, but some of these laws and regulations have been enacted only recently, or may be interpreted infrequently or only recently and inconsistently. As a result of infrequent, sparse or conflicting interpretations, ambiguities in these laws and regulations may leave uncertainty with respect to permitted or restricted conduct under them. Any ambiguity under a law to which we are subject may lead to regulatory investigations, governmental enforcement actions or private causes of action, such as class action lawsuits, with respect to our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. If financial institutions face exposure stemming from legal violations committed by the companies to which they provide financing or underwriting services, this could negatively affect the market for whole-loans and mortgage-backed securities. In June 2003, a California jury found a warehouse lender and securitization underwriter liable in part for fraud on consumers committed by a lender to whom it provided financing and underwriting services. The jury found that the investment bank was aware of the fraud and substantially assisted the lender in perpetrating the fraud by providing financing and underwriting services that allowed the lender to continue to operate, and held it liable for 10% of the plaintiff’s damages. In December 2006, the appeal court affirmed the jury verdict on liability and remanded the matter for further proceedings on the proper calculation of damages. This is the first case we know of in which an investment bank was held partly responsible for violations committed by a mortgage lender customer. Shortly after the announcement of the jury verdict in the California case, the Florida Attorney General filed suit against the same financial institution, seeking an injunction to prevent it from financing mortgage loans within Florida, as well as damages and civil penalties, based on theories of unfair and deceptive trade practices and fraud. The suit claims that this financial institution aided and abetted 38 Table of Contents the same lender involved in the California case in its commission of fraudulent representations in Florida. As of the date of this filing, there has been no ruling in this case. If other courts or regulators adopt this “aiding and abetting” theory, investment banks may face increased litigation as they are named as defendants in lawsuits and regulatory actions against the mortgage companies with which they do business. Some investment banks may exit the business, charge more for warehouse lending and reduce the prices they pay for whole-loans in order to build in the costs of this potential litigation. This could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. We may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of our independent brokers. Mortgage brokers, from which we sourced some of our Tribeca loans, have parallel and separate legal obligations to which they are subject. While these laws may not explicitly hold the originating lenders responsible for the legal violations of mortgage brokers, increasingly federal and state agencies have sought to impose such assignee liability. For example, the FTC entered into a settlement agreement with a mortgage lender where the FTC characterized a broker that had placed all of its loan production with a single lender as the “agent” of the lender. The FTC imposed a fine on the lender in part because, as “principal,” the lender was legally responsible for the mortgage broker’s unfair and deceptive acts and practices. In the past, the United States Department of Justice has sought to hold a non- prime mortgage lender responsible for the pricing practices of its mortgage brokers, alleging that the mortgage lender was directly responsible for the total fees and charges paid by the borrower under the Fair Housing Act even if the lender neither dictated what the mortgage broker could charge nor kept the money for its own account. Accordingly, we may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of our independent mortgage broker customers. We are subject to reputational risks from negative publicity concerning the subprime mortgage industry. The subprime mortgage industry in which we operate may be subject to periodic negative publicity, which could damage our reputation and adversely impact our earnings. Reputation risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative publicity, is inherent in our industry. There is a perception that the borrowers of subprime loans may be unsophisticated and in need of consumer protection. Accordingly, from time to time, consumer advocate groups or the media may focus attention on our services, thereby subjecting our industry to the possibility of periodic negative publicity. We may also be negatively impacted if another company in the subprime mortgage industry or in a related industry engages in practices resulting in increased public attention to our industry. Negative publicity may also occur as a result of judicial inquiries and regulatory or governmental action with respect to the subprime mortgage industry. Negative publicity may result in increased regulation and legislative scrutiny of industry practices as well as increased litigation or enforcement actions by civil and criminal authorities. Additionally, negative publicity may increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by impeding our ability to attract and retain customers and employees. During the past several years, the press has widely reported certain industry related concerns, including rising delinquencies, the tightening of credit and more recently, increasing litigation. Some of the litigation instituted against subprime lenders is being brought in the form of purported class actions by individuals or by state or federal regulators or state attorneys general. The judicial climate in many states is such that the outcome of these cases is unpredictable. If we are subject to increased litigation due to such negative publicity, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We are subject to significant legal and reputational risks and expenses under federal and state laws concerning privacy, use and security of customer information. The federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley financial reform legislation imposes significant privacy obligations on us in connection with the collection, use and security of financial and other nonpublic information provided to us by applicants and borrowers. In addition, California has enacted, and several other states are considering enacting, even more stringent privacy or customer-information-security legislation, as permitted under federal law. Because laws and rules concerning the use and protection of customer information are continuing to 39 Table of Contents develop at the federal and state levels, we expect to incur increased costs in our effort to be and remain in full compliance with these requirements. Nevertheless, despite our efforts we will be subject to legal and reputational risks in connection with our collection and use of customer information, and we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to lawsuits or compliance actions under such state or federal privacy requirements. To the extent that a variety of inconsistent state privacy rules or requirements are enacted, our compliance costs could substantially increase. If many of our borrowers become subject to the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act of 2003, our cash flows and interest income may be adversely affected. Under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, which in 2003 re-enacted the Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Civil Relief Act of 1940, or the Civil Relief Act, members of the military services on active duty receive certain protections and benefits. Under the Civil Relief Act, a borrower who enters active military service after the origination of his or her mortgage loan generally may not be required to pay interest above an annual rate of 6%, and the lender is restricted from exercising certain enforcement remedies, including foreclosure, during the period of the borrower’s active duty status. The Civil Relief Act also applies to a borrower who was on reserve status and is called to active duty after origination of the mortgage loan. Considering the large number of U.S. Armed Forces personnel on active duty and likely to be on active duty in the future, compliance with the Civil Relief Act could reduce our cash flow and the interest payments collected from those borrowers, and in the event of default or delay, prevent us from exercising the remedies for default that otherwise would be available to us. Legislative action to provide mortgage relief may negatively impact our business. As delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures in and of residential mortgages have increased dramatically, there are several federal, state and local initiatives to restrict our ability to foreclose and resell the property of a customer in default. Any restriction on our ability to foreclose on a loan, any requirement that we forego a portion of the amount otherwise due on a loan or any requirement that we modify any original loan terms is likely to negatively impact our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. These initiatives have come in the form of proposed legislation and regulations, including those pertaining to federal bankruptcy laws, government investigations and calls for voluntary standard setting. While perhaps not common over the last 20 years, there is a long history of legislative proposals providing for foreclosure moratoriums during periods of economic distress. One approach is to delay the ability of a lender to foreclose and resell the property of a customer in default. These bills could be procedural in nature, such as requiring the foreclosing lender to provide various types of notices to the mortgagor as a condition to consummating the foreclosure, or they could be more substantive, such as requiring the lender to forbear for a specified period of time or obligating the servicer to engage in various forms of loss mitigation as an alternative to foreclosure. Depending on an individual customer’s qualifications, such alternatives may include: (i) special forbearance or a temporary repayment plan; (ii) modification to reduce the monthly payment or extend the term of the loan; (iii) a pre-foreclosure sale; or (iv) a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure. The goal is to prevent a servicer from foreclosing on a customer’s house if there are viable alternatives. If such proposals are enacted, the cost to service and the time to foreclose on a customer in default could materially increase. Also, Congress is considering changes to federal bankruptcy laws that would, if passed, allow judges presiding in Chapter 13 bankruptcy cases to modify the terms of mortgages secured by a borrower’s principal residence, including but not limited to, the interest rate, loan maturity and principal balance. Regardless of whether a specific law is proposed or enacted, there are several federal and state government initiatives that seek to obtain the voluntary agreement of servicers to subscribe to a code of conduct or statement of principles or methodologies when working with borrowers facing foreclosure on their homes. Generally speaking, the principles call for servicers to reach out to borrowers before their loans “reset” with higher monthly payments that might result in a default by a borrower and seek to modify loans prior to the reset. Applicable servicing agreements, federal tax law and accounting standards limit the ability of a servicer to modify a loan before the borrower has defaulted on the loan or the servicer has determined that a 40 Table of Contents default by the borrower is reasonably likely to occur. Servicing agreements generally require the servicer to act in the best interests of the note holders or at least not to take actions that are materially adverse to the interests of the note holders. Compliance with the code or principles must conform to these other contractual, tax and accounting standards. As a result, servicers have to confront competing demands from consumers and those advocating on their behalf to make home retention the overarching priority when dealing with borrowers in default, on the one hand, and the requirements of note holders to maximize returns on the loans, on the other. Risks Related to Our Securities Thomas J. Axon effectively controls our company, substantially reducing the influence of our other stockholders. Thomas J. Axon, our Chairman and President, beneficially owns more than 43% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. Axon will be able to influence significantly the actions that require stockholder approval, including: • the election of our directors; and • the approval of mergers, sales of assets or other corporate transactions or matters submitted for stockholder approval. Furthermore, the members of the board of directors as a group (including Mr. Axon) beneficially own a substantial majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, our other stockholders may have little or no influence over matters submitted for stockholder approval. In addition, Mr. Axon’s influence and/or that of our current board members could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of us and consequently materially adversely affect the price of our common stock. We may be delisted from The Nasdaq Stock Market, in which case the price and liquidity of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets would be adversely affected. Our common stock is currently listed on The Nasdaq Global Market. On January 2, 2008, we were notified by The Nasdaq Stock Market that our common stock had failed to maintain a minimum market value of publicly held shares of $5 million, as required for continued inclusion on the Nasdaq Global Market, and that if compliance with the minimum was not restored for at least ten consecutive trading days before April 1, 2008, our common stock would be delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market. We have not regained compliance with this requirement and expect to submit on April 1, 2008 our application for transfer of our listing to The Nasdaq Capital Market, which requires that we maintain only $1 million in minimum market value of publicly held shares. Our application for transfer will stay the delisting of our common stock from The Nasdaq Global Market while it is pending. If we regain compliance with the minimum market value of publicly held shares requirement during this period, we will petition to retain our position on The Nasdaq Global Market. In the event that we transfer our listing from The Nasdaq Global Market to The Nasdaq Capital Market, our common stock could become less liquid, which would adversely affect its value. If our application for transfer to The Nasdaq Capital Market is not approved, because we have failed to maintain a bid price of $1.00 or for any other reason, our common stock will be delisted. In addition, on February 20, 2008, we were notified by The Nasdaq Stock Market that for the last 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of our common stock closed below the minimum $1.00 per share required for continued inclusion on the Nasdaq Global Market. If we do not restore compliance with the minimum bid price requirement for at least 10 consecutive trading days before August 18, 2008, our common stock will be delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market. The delisting of our common stock would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and would negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. If delisted from The Nasdaq Stock Market, our common stock will likely be quoted in the over-the-counter market in the so-called “pink sheets” or quoted in the OTC Bulletin Board. In addition, our common stock would be subject to the rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 relating to “penny stocks.” These rules require brokers who sell securities that are subject to the rules, and who sell to persons other than established 41 Table of Contents customers and institutional accredited investors, to complete required documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with information concerning the risks of trading in the security. These requirements could make it more difficult to buy or sell our common stock in the open market. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Delisting could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Our organizational documents, Delaware law and our credit facilities may make it harder for us to be acquired without the consent and cooperation of our board of directors, management and lender. Several provisions of our organizational documents, Delaware law, and our credit facilities may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including a takeover attempt in which the potential purchaser offers to pay a per share price greater than the current market price of our common stock. Our classified board of directors will make it more difficult for a person seeking to obtain control of us to do so. Also, our supermajority voting requirements may discourage or deter a person from attempting to obtain control of us by making it more difficult to amend the provisions of our certificate of incorporation to eliminate an anti-takeover effect or the protections they afford minority stockholders, and will make it more difficult for a stockholder or stockholder group to put pressure on our board of directors to amend our certificate of incorporation to facilitate a takeover attempt. In addition, under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof. The ability to issue shares of preferred stock could tend to discourage takeover or acquisition proposals not supported by our current board of directors. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder (such as the owner of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock) for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. The preceding provisions of our organizational documents, as well as Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change of control and prevent changes in our management, even if such events would be in the best interests of our stockholders. Under the terms of the Forbearance Agreements, we cannot enter into mergers, consolidations or sales of assets (subject to certain exceptions). In addition, we cannot, without the bank’s consent, enter into any material change in our capital structure that the bank or a nationally recognized independent public accounting firm determine could cause a consolidation of our assets with other persons under relevant accounting regulations. In addition, if our controlling shareholder ceasing to possess, directly or indirectly, the power to direct our management and policies through his ownership of our voting stock constitutes an event of default under our credit facilities, which, without a waiver from our lender, would cause our indebtedness to become immediately payable and could result in our insolvency if we are unable to repay our debt. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate and cause our stock price to decline. Because of the nature of our business, our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, or we may incur additional operating losses. Our results may fluctuate as a result of any of the following: • the timing and amount of collections on loans in our portfolio; • the rate of delinquency, default, foreclosure and prepayment on the loans we hold and service; • changes in interest rates; • deviations in the amount or timing of collections on loans from our expectations when we purchased or originated such loans; 42 Table of Contents • our inability to purchase and originate new mortgage loans for portfolio or for sale in the secondary mortgage market; • our inability to successfully enter the new business of servicing loans for third parties; • further declines in the estimated value of real property securing mortgage loans; • increases in operating expenses associated with the changes in our business; • general economic and market conditions; and • the effects of state and federal tax, monetary and fiscal policies. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and we cannot predict their potential effects on the price of our common stock. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or further significantly decline in the future. Various factors unrelated to our performance may cause the market price of our common stock to become volatile, which could harm our ability to access the capital markets in the future. The market price of our common stock may experience fluctuations that are unrelated to our operating performance. In particular, our stock price may be affected by general market movements as well as developments specifically related to the consumer finance industry, changes in home values, the financial services sector, the mortgage origination industry and the subprime origination sector. These could include, among other things, interest rate movements, quarterly variations or changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, governmental or regulatory actions or investigations of us or our lenders, or a significant reduction in the price of publicly traded securities of another participant in the consumer finance industry. This volatility may make it difficult for us to access the capital markets in the future through additional secondary offerings of our common stock, regardless of our financial performance, and such difficulty may preclude us from being able to take advantage of certain business opportunities or meet our obligations. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. In addition to the portion of our outstanding common stock that is freely tradable, we may issue additional shares in connection with our business and may grant equity-based awards to our employees, officers, directors and consultants. If a significant portion of these shares were sold in the public market, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected. Compliance with the rules of the market in which our common stock trades and proposed and recently enacted changes in securities laws and regulations are likely to increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the national securities exchanges have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices for public companies, including ourselves. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee. Our common stock was listed on The Nasdaq Global Market, formerly known as The Nasdaq National Market, on July 19, 2005. Accordingly, we must comply with Nasdaq’s qualitative and quantitative requirements, which will require additional cost and effort on our part. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 