Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business.” Collection Services Agreement. On February 1, 2010, FCMC entered into a collection services agreement, pursuant to which FCMC agreed to serve as collection agent in the customary manner in connection with approximately 1,500 seriously delinquent and generally unsecured loans, with an unpaid principal balance of approximately $85 million, which were acquired through a trust set up by a fund in which the Company’s Chairman and President is a member and contributed twenty five percent of the purchase price. Under the collection services agreement, FCMC is entitled to collection fees consisting of 33% of the amount collected, net of third-party expenses. The agreement also provides for reimbursement of third-party fees and expenses incurred by FCMC in compliance with the agreement. 3 Table of Contents March 2009 Restructuring Effective March 31, 2009, Franklin Credit Holding Corporation (“Franklin Holding”), and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries, including FCMC and Tribeca Lending Corp. (“Tribeca”), entered into a series of agreements (collectively, the “Restructuring Agreements”) with The Huntington National Bank, successor by merger to Sky Bank, pursuant to which, taken as a whole, (i) the Company’s loans, pledges and guarantees with the Bank and its participating banks were substantially restructured pursuant to a legacy credit agreement (the “Legacy Credit Agreement”), (ii) substantially all of the Company’s portfolio of subprime mortgage loans and owned real estate, acquired through foreclosure, was transferred to a trust (the “Trust”; with the loans and owned real estate transferred to the Trust collectively referred to herein as the “Portfolio”) in exchange for trust certificates, with certain trust certificates, representing an undivided interest in approximately 83% of the Portfolio, transferred in turn by the Company to Huntington Capital Financing, LLC (the “REIT”), a real estate investment trust wholly-owned by the Bank, (iii) FCMC and Franklin Holding entered into an amended $13.5 million credit facility with the Bank (the “Licensing Credit Agreement”), and (iv) FCMC entered into a market-rate servicing agreement (the “Servicing Agreement”) with the Bank (the “Restructuring”). In connection with the Restructuring, the Company in April 2009 engaged in a number of cost-saving measures intended to improve the financial performance of FCMC, its servicing subsidiary company. The loans transferred by the Company to the Trust continue to be included on the Company’s balance sheet, and the revenues from such loans are reflected in the Company’s consolidated results, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), notwithstanding the fact that trust certificates representing an undivided interest in approximately 83% of the Portfolio were transferred to Huntington in the Restructuring. Accordingly, 100% of the loans continue to be shown on the Company’s balance sheet and the revenues, and related expenses, continue to be included in these consolidated results. As a result, the fees received from Huntington subsequent to March 31, 2009 for servicing their loans, and the third-party costs incurred by us and reimbursed by Huntington, in the servicing and collection of their loans for purposes of these consolidated financial statements are not recognized as servicing fees and reimbursement of third party servicing costs, but as additional interest and other income earned and additional, offsetting expenses as if the Company continued to own the loans. The Restructuring did not include a portion of the Company’s debt (the Unrestructured Debt), which as of December 31, 2009 totaled approximately $39.5 million. The Unrestructured Debt remains subject to the original terms of the Franklin forbearance agreement entered into with the Bank in December 2007 and subsequent amendments thereto (the “Franklin Forbearance Agreement”) and the Franklin 2004 master credit agreement. On April 20 and August 10, 2009, Franklin Holding, and certain of its direct and indirect subsidiaries, including Franklin Credit Management Corporation (FCMC) and Franklin Credit Asset Corporation (“Franklin Asset”) entered into amendments of the Franklin Forbearance Agreement and Franklin 2004 master credit agreement (the “Amendments”) with the Bank relating to the Unrestructured Debt. The Bank agreed to forbear, during the forbearance period, which on November 13, 2009, was extended until March 31, 2010; and, on March 26, 2010 was extended until June 30, 2010, with respect to any defaults past or present with respect to any failure to make scheduled principal and interest payments to the Bank (“Identified Forbearance Default”) relating to the Unrestructured Debt. During the forbearance period, the Bank, absent the occurrence and continuance of a forbearance default other than an Identified Forbearance Default, will not initiate collection proceedings or exercise its remedies in respect of the Unrestructured Debt or elect to have interest accrue at the stated rate applicable after default. In addition, FCMC is not obligated to the Bank with respect to the Unrestructured Debt and any references to FCMC in the Franklin 2004 master credit agreement governing the Unrestructured Debt have been amended to refer to Franklin Asset. 4 Table of Contents Upon expiration of the forbearance period, in the event that the Unrestructured Debt with the Bank remains outstanding, the Bank, with notice, could call an event of default under the Legacy Credit Agreement, but not the Licensing Credit Agreement or the Servicing Agreement, which do not include cross-default provisions that would be triggered by such an event of default under the Legacy Credit Agreement. The Bank’s recourse in respect of the Legacy Credit Agreement is limited to the assets and stock of Franklin Holding’s subsidiaries, excluding the assets of FCMC (except for a first lien of the Bank on an office condominium unit and a second priority lien of the Bank on cash collateral held as security under the Licensing Credit Agreement) and the unpledged portion of FCMC’s stock. The Franklin forbearance agreement and the Tribeca forbearance agreement (together, the “Forbearance Agreements”) that had been entered into with the Bank were, except for the Company’s Unrestructured Debt, replaced effective March 31, 2009 by the Restructuring Agreements. From the perspective of the Company and its stockholders, the Restructuring provided for the release of thirty percent of the equity in FCMC, ten percent of which has been transferred to the Company’s principal stockholder, Thomas J. Axon, from the Company’s pledges to the Bank in respect of its Legacy Credit Agreement. The Legacy Credit Agreement also provides for the possibility of release of up to an additional fifty percent (of which a maximum of an additional ten percent would go to Thomas J. Axon), based upon the Bank’s receipt of the agreed amounts of net remittances from the Portfolio, summarized below (the “Net Remittances”), from March 31, 2009, the effective date of the Legacy Credit Agreement (the “Legacy Effective Date”), through the term of the Legacy Credit Agreement pursuant to and in accordance with the schedule of collection levels identified in the Legacy Credit Agreement. During the twelve-month period ending March 31, 2010, the minimum amount of Net Remittances, referred to as “Level 1, to achieve the release of an additional 10% of pledged equity interests, from 70% to 60%,” is $225 million. During the nine months ended December 31, 2009, the Company collected in aggregate approximately $176.9 million from loans and real estate owned serviced for the Bank, of which $30.6 million was received from contractual loan purchase rights. Net Remittances, as defined in the Legacy Credit Agreement essentially as collections less expenses incurred by the Bank related to the Company’s servicing of the Bank’s loans and real estate owned, amounted to approximately $132.0 million. Therefore, the Company would need to collect $93.0 million in Net Remittances over the three-month period ending March 31, 2010 to reach the minimum Level 1 amount under the Restructuring Agreements. Based on collections as of February 28, 2010, the Company will not achieve the minimum Level 1 amount. However, (i) if Net Remittances do not reach the minimum Level 1 amount prior to the first anniversary date, but reach the minimum Level 2 amount of $475 million prior to the third anniversary date, the Bank shall retain, as collateral, 55% of the FCMC equity instead of 50%, as currently scheduled, and any subsequent reductions in the amount of FCMC equity pledged to the Bank shall be 10%; and provided further that (ii) if Net Remittances do not reach the minimum Level 1 amount prior to the first anniversary date and do not reach the minimum Level 2 amount prior to the third anniversary date, then the schedule for release of the equity interests in FCMC currently pledged to the Bank shall be as follows: (x) upon attaining the minimum Level 3 amount of $575 million, the pledged equity interests in FCMC shall reduce 25% (from 70% to 45%); (y) upon attaining the minimum Level 4 amount of $650 million, the pledged equity interests in FCMC shall reduce an additional 10% (from 45% to 35%), and (z) upon attaining the minimum Level 5 amount of $750 million, the pledged equity interests in FCMC shall reduce an additional 10% (from 35% to 25%). See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis - Borrowings — Forbearance Agreements with Lead Lending Bank.” 5 Table of Contents On June 25, 2009, in connection with the Restructuring and with the approval of the holders of more than two-thirds of the shares of Franklin Holding entitled to vote at an election of directors, the Certificate of Incorporation of FCMC was amended to delete the provision, adopted pursuant to Section 251(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware in connection with the Company’s December 2008 corporate reorganization, that had required the approval of the stockholders of Franklin Holding in addition to the stockholders of FCMC for any action or transaction, other than the election or removal of directors, that would require the approval of the stockholders of FCMC. Franklin Credit Management Corporation As a result of the March 2009 Restructuring and the Reorganization that took effect December 19, 2008, FCMC, the Company’s operating business is conducted principally through FCMC, which is a specialty consumer finance company primarily engaged in the servicing and resolution of performing, reperforming and nonperforming residential mortgage loans, including specialized loan recovery servicing, and in the due diligence, analysis, pricing and acquisition of residential mortgage portfolios, for third parties. The portfolios serviced for other entities, as of December 31, 2009, principally for Huntington (loans previously acquired and originated by Franklin and transferred to the Trust), primarily consist of first and second-lien loans secured by 1-4 family residential real estate that generally fell outside the underwriting standards of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. As a result of the Restructuring and the corporate reorganization that took effect December 19, 2008, FCMC, the servicing company within the Franklin consolidated group of companies, however, has positive net worth and since January 1, 2009 has been profitable. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Results of Operations — Franklin Credit Management Corporation (FCMC).” Amendment to Bosco Servicing Agreement On May 28, 2008, Franklin entered into various agreements (the “Bosco Servicing Agreements”) to service on a fee-paying basis approximately $245 million in residential home equity line of credit mortgage loans for Bosco Credit LLC (“Bosco”). On February 27, 2009 and October 28, 2009, the Bosco Servicing Agreements, dated as of May 28, 2008, by and between Franklin Credit and Bosco were revised and amended (the “Amendment”). The Amendment effectively reduced the monthly servicing fees payable to FCMC, revised the fee structure relating to deferred servicing fees and provided for a minimum monthly servicing fee of $50,000. See “Loan Servicing — Bosco Servicing Agreement.” Going Concern Uncertainty — Franklin Holding The Company has been and continues to be operating in an extraordinary and difficult environment, and has been significantly and negatively impacted by the unprecedented credit and economic market turmoil of the past two plus years, including the more recent recessionary economy of 2009. Particularly impacting Franklin as of the March 2009 Restructuring was the severe deterioration in the U.S. housing market and the nearly complete shutdown of the mortgage credit market for borrowers without excellent credit histories, and the slowing economy with increasing unemployment. These unprecedented market conditions adversely affected the Company’s portfolio of residential mortgage loans, particularly its second-lien mortgage loans, delinquencies, provisions for loan losses, operating losses and cash flows, which resulted in significant stockholders’ deficit of $464.5 million at December 31, 2008 and $822.9 million at March 31, 2009. At December 31, 2009, the Company’s stockholders’ deficit was $806.8 million. The Company has been, since the latter part of 2007, expressly prohibited by the Bank from acquiring or originating loans. In addition, the Company’s restructuring agreements with the Bank contain affirmative covenants that the Company’s servicing subsidiary, FCMC, be licensed, qualified and in good standing, where 6 Table of Contents required, and that it maintain its licenses to service mortgage loans and real estate owned properties serviced under the servicing agreement entered into in connection with the Restructuring. Any event of default under the March 31, 2009 Restructuring Agreements, or failure to successfully renew these Restructuring Agreements or enter into new credit facilities with Huntington prior to their scheduled maturity, could entitle Huntington to declare the Company’s indebtedness immediately due and payable and result in the transfer of the remaining loans pledged to Huntington to a third party. Moreover, certain events of default under the Restructuring Agreements, including defaults under provisions relating to enforceability, bankruptcy, maintenance of collateral and lien positions, and certain negative covenants typical for agreements of this nature, or defaults under its Servicing Agreement with the Bank or the Licensing Credit Agreement could result in the transfer of the Company’s sub-servicing contract as servicer of what had been substantially all of its loans and owned real estate prior to the Restructuring. Without the continued cooperation and assistance from Huntington, the consolidated Franklin Holding’s ability to continue as a viable business is in substantial doubt, and it may not be able to continue as a going concern. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Borrowings.” Operating Losses and Stockholders’ Deficit The Company had a net loss of $358.1 million attributed to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared with a net loss of $476.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The net loss for the year ended December 31, 2009 was principally due to the March 31, 2009 Restructuring that resulted in a write-down to fair market value of all of the Company’s portfolios of mortgage loans and real estate owned, and subsequent write downs during the nine months ended December 31, 2009 due to further declines in estimated fair values and other adjustments to the Portfolio and the loans securing the Unrestructured Debt. As part of the Restructuring, Franklin Credit Holding Corporation transferred approximately 83% of the Portfolio (in the form of trust certificates) to Huntington in exchange for $477.3 million in common and preferred shares in Huntington’s REIT Securities. The REIT Securities had an aggregate value intended to approximate the fair market value of the trust certificates transferred to the Bank as of March 31, 2009. The Company incurred a loss of $282.6 million on the transfer of assets. In addition, the Company recognized a loss of $62.7 million on the valuation of the remaining investments on the Company’s balance sheet, approximately 17% of the Portfolio transferred to a trust in exchange for trust certificates and the remaining loans not subject to the Restructuring. The Company had stockholders’ deficit of $806.8 million at December 31, 2009, or a deficit book value per common share of approximately $100.69. Although the transfer of the trust certificates, representing approximately 83% of the Portfolio, to the REIT was structured in substance as a sale of financial assets, the transfer, for accounting purposes, is being treated as a financing under GAAP (specifically under the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s new Accounting Standards Codification Topic 860, Transfers and Servicing). Therefore, the mortgage loans and real estate have remain on the Company’s balance sheet classified as mortgage loans and real estate held for sale securing a nonrecourse liability in an equal amount. The treatment as a financing on the Company’s balance sheet, however, did not affect the cash flows of the transfer, and does not affect the Company’s cash flows or its reported net income. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Executive Summary.” The net loss for the year ended December 31, 2008 was principally the result of a $458.1 million provision for loan losses and interest reversals for non-accrual loans. Due principally to the substantial deterioration in the housing and subprime mortgage markets and the slowing economy with increasing unemployment, and the concomitant deterioration in the performance of the Company’s loan portfolios, the Company reassessed its allowance for loan losses throughout the year 2008, which resulted in significantly increased estimates of inherent losses in its portfolios and increased allowances for loan losses. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008.” 7 Table of Contents Upon the request of the Bank, FCMC, a majority owned subsidiary of FCHC, made a distribution of $2,245,000 to the Bank on September 30, 2009. The distribution, which represented approximately 70% of the estimated net income of FCMC for the six months ended September 30, 2009 after a holdback of $500,000, was made pursuant to the provisions of the Legacy Credit Agreement currently entitling the Bank to 70% of all amounts distributed by FCMC. The distribution was principally applied by the Bank to pay down the debt obligations of certain of FCMC’s sister companies as provided for by the terms of the Legacy Credit Agreement with the Bank. The remaining 30%, or $962,000, was distributed in November 2009 as a dividend of $9,623.38 per share to the stockholders of FCMC, including $866,000 to FCHC in respect of its ownership of 90% of the outstanding stock of FCMC, and $96,000 to Thomas J. Axon, the Chairman and President of the Company, in respect of his ownership of 10% of the outstanding stock of FCMC. Although the distribution to the Bank had been required under the terms of the Legacy Credit Agreement since the distribution to the Bank was accompanied by a voluntary election by FCMC to declare dividends to its two stockholders, FCMC is not a borrower under the Legacy Credit Agreement and except for a pledge of certain collateral under a limited recourse guarantee is not otherwise liable for the indebtedness under the Legacy Credit Agreement. Indeed, the Bank’s recourse in respect of the Legacy Credit Agreement is limited to the assets and stock of Franklin Holding’s subsidiaries, excluding the assets of FCMC (except for a first lien of the Bank on an office condominium unit and a second priority lien of the Bank on cash collateral held as security under the Licensing Credit Agreement) and the unpledged portion of FCMC’s stock. Licenses to Service Loans FCMC’s deficit net worth during 2008, prior to the Company’s reorganization in December 2008, resulted in FCMC’s noncompliance with the requirements to maintain certain licenses in a number of states. The regulators in these states could have taken a number of possible corrective actions in response to FCMC’s noncompliance, including license revocation or suspension, requirement for the filing of a corrective action plan, denial of an application for a license renewal or a combination of the same, in which case FCMC’s business would have been adversely affected. In order to address these and other issues, in December 2008, FCMC completed a reorganization of its company structure for the principal purpose of restoring the required minimum net worth under FCMC’s licenses to ensure that FCMC would be able to continue to service mortgage loans. Effective December 19, 2008, Franklin Holding became the parent company of FCMC in the adoption of a holding company form of organizational structure. This reorganization (the “Reorganization”) resulted in FCMC, which holds the Company’s servicing platform, having positive net worth as a result of having assigned and transferred to a newly formed sister company ownership of the entities that held beneficial ownership of the Company’s loan portfolios and the related indebtedness and accordingly, being able to comply with applicable net worth requirements to maintain licenses to service and collect loans in various jurisdictions. In addition, as a result of and following the March 31, 2009 Restructuring, FCMC has maintained net worth in excess of that which is required in those limited states in which the net worth calculation may not include recourse on any contingent liabilities. The business operations and financial condition of the Company taken as a whole, including FCMC, which holds the servicing platform, on a consolidated basis, including the Company’s consolidated substantial negative net worth, did not change as a result of the Reorganization. However, the resulting financial condition of FCMC changed, inasmuch as it had positive net worth both at December 31, 2008 and 2009. 8 Table of Contents Franklin’s Business During the past two years, through FCMC, we have been seeking to begin providing services for third parties, on a fee-paying basis, which are directly related to our servicing operations and our portfolio acquisition experience with residential mortgage loans. We are actively seeking to (a) expand our servicing operations to provide servicing and collection services to third parties, particularly specialized collection services that we refer to as loan recovery servicing, and (b) capitalize on our experience to provide customized, comprehensive loan analysis and in-depth end-to-end transaction services to the residential mortgage markets. These services include, in addition to servicing loans for others, 1-4 family residential loan due diligence, portfolio stratification and analysis, and portfolio pricing. These new business activities are subject to the consent of the Bank, and we may not be successful in entering into or implementing any of these businesses in a meaningful way. Prior to December 28, 2007, the Company was primarily engaged in the acquisition and origination for portfolio, and servicing and resolution, of performing, reperforming and nonperforming residential mortgage loans and real estate assets, including the origination of subprime mortgage loans. We specialized in acquiring and originating loans secured by 1-4 family residential real estate that generally fell outside the underwriting standards of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and involved elevated credit risk as a result of the nature or absence of income documentation, limited credit histories, higher levels of consumer debt or past credit difficulties. We refer to the Company’s investments in residential mortgage loans and real estate assets prior to the Restructuring as the “Legacy” portfolio and the “Legacy” loans. All disclosures and explanations included in this Form 10-K must be read in light of the March 2009 Restructuring and the changed nature of the Company’s business. Loan Servicing The Company’s servicing business is conducted principally through FCMC, which is a specialty consumer finance company primarily engaged in the servicing and resolution of performing, reperforming and nonperforming residential mortgage loans, including specialized loan recovery servicing, for third parties. The portfolios serviced for other entities, as of December 31, 2009, principally for Huntington (loans previously acquired and originated by Franklin and transferred to the Trust), primarily consist of first and second-lien loans secured by 1-4 family residential real estate. We have invested to create a loan servicing capability that is focused on collections, loss mitigation and default management. In general, we seek to ensure that the loans we service for others are repaid in accordance with the original terms or according to amended repayment terms negotiated with the borrowers and in accordance with the terms of our servicing contracts with our servicing customers. Because the loans we service generally experience above average delinquencies, erratic payment patterns and defaults, our servicing operation is focused on maintaining close contact with borrowers and as a result, is more labor-intensive than traditional mortgage servicing operations. Through frequent communication we are able to encourage positive payment performance, quickly identify those borrowers who are likely to move into seriously delinquent status and promptly apply appropriate loss mitigation and recovery strategies. Our servicing staff employs a variety of collection strategies that we have developed to successfully manage serious delinquencies, bankruptcy and foreclosure. Additionally, we maintain a real estate department with experience in property management and the sale of residential properties. As of December 31, 2009, through our servicing subsidiary, FCMC, we had two significant servicing contracts with third parties to service 1-4 family mortgage loans and owned real estate, Huntington and Bosco. At December 31, 2009, we serviced and provided recovery collection services on a total population of approximately 37,000 loans for Huntington and Bosco, and relatively small pools of loans under recovery collection contracts, whereby we receive fees based solely on a percentage of amounts collected, for a few other entities. The loans serviced for Huntington represented approximately 93% of the total loans serviced at December 31, 2009. In January 2010, FCMC returned to Huntington approximately 6,600 recovery loans serviced for the Bank (loans held by the Bank and unrelated to the Company) that we believed were not profitable for us to service. 9 Table of Contents Servicing and Collection Operations At December 31, 2009, our servicing department consisted of 113 employees who managed approximately 37,000 loans, including approximately 2,600 home equity loans for Bosco. Our servicing operations are conducted in the following departments: Loan Boarding and Administration. The primary objective of the loan boarding department is to ensure that newly acquired loans under contracts to service for others are properly transitioned from the prior servicer and are accurately boarded onto our servicing systems. Our loan boarding department audits loan information for accuracy to ensure that the loans conform to the terms provided in the original note and mortgage. The information boarded onto our systems provides us with a file that we use to automatically generate introductory letters to borrowers summarizing the terms of the servicing transfer of their loan, among other standard industry procedures. The loan administration department performs typical duties related to the administration of loans, including incorporating modifications to terms of loans. The loan administration department also ensures the proper maintenance and disbursement of funds from escrow accounts and monitors non-escrow accounts for delinquent taxes and insurance lapses. For loans serviced with adjustable interest rates, the loan administration group ensures that adjustments are properly made and identified to the affected borrowers in a timely manner. Customer Service. The primary objective of our customer service department is to obtain timely payments from borrowers, respond to borrower requests and resolve disputes with borrowers. Within 10 days of boarding newly acquired loans onto our servicing system, our customer service representatives contact each new borrower to welcome them to Franklin Credit Management Corporation and to gather and/or verify any missing information, such as loan balance, interest rate, contact phone numbers, place of employment, insurance coverage and all other pertinent information required to properly service the loan. The customer service group responds to all inbound customer calls for information requests regarding payments, statement balances, escrow balances and taxes, payoff requests, returned check and late payment fees. In addition, our customer service representatives process payoff requests and reconveyances. Client Relations. The principal objective of the client relations group is to interface with our servicing clients regarding the servicing performance of their loans, and for invoicing servicing clients. In addition, our client relations group oversees the boarding of new loans for servicing and/or recovery collections. Collections. The main objective of our collections department is to ensure loan performance through maintaining customer contact. Our collections group continuously reviews and monitors the status of collections and individual loan payments in order to proactively identify and solve potential collection problems. When a loan becomes seven days past due, our collections group begins making collection calls and generating past-due letters. Our collections group attempts to determine whether a past due payment is an aberration or indicative of a more serious delinquency. If the past due payment appears to be an aberration, we emphasize a cooperative approach and attempt to assist the borrower in becoming current or arriving at an alternative repayment arrangement. Upon a serious delinquency, by which we mean a delinquency of 61 days by a borrower, or the earlier determination by our collections group based on the evidence available that a serious delinquency is likely, the loan is typically transferred to our loss mitigation department. We employ a range of strategies to modify repayment terms in order to enable the borrower to make payments and ultimately cure the delinquency, or focus on expediting the foreclosure process so that loss mitigation can begin as promptly as practicable. 10 Table of Contents Loss Mitigation. Our loss mitigation department, which consists of staff experienced in collection work, manages and monitors the progress of seriously delinquent loans and loans which we believe will develop into serious delinquencies. In addition to maintaining contact with borrowers through telephone calls and collection letters, this department utilizes various strategies in an effort to reinstate an account or revive cash flow on an account. The loss mitigation department analyzes each loan to determine a collection strategy to maximize the amount and speed of recovery and minimize costs. The particular strategy is based upon each individual borrower’s past payment history, current credit profile, current ability to pay, collateral lien position and current collateral value. Loss mitigation agents qualify borrowers for relief programs appropriate to the borrower’s hardship and finances. Loss mitigation agents process borrower applications for Temporary Relief programs (deferments and rate reductions), Expanded Temporary Relief programs (pay and interest accrue and repayment plans), Homeowner Relief programs (pre-foreclosure home sale) and Permanent Relief programs (long-term modifications, including those sponsored by the U.S. Treasury’s Home Affordable Modification Program (“HAMP”)), as well as for settlements, short sales, and deeds-in-lieu. Seriously delinquent accounts not resolved through the loss mitigation activities described above are foreclosed or a judgment is obtained, if potential collection warrants the cost, against the related borrower in accordance with state and local laws, with the objective of maximizing asset recovery in the most expeditious manner possible. This is commonly referred to as loss management. Foreclosure timelines are managed through a timeline report built into the loan servicing system. The report schedules milestones applicable for each state throughout the foreclosure process, which enhances our ability to monitor and manage the process. Properties acquired through foreclosure are transferred to our real estate department to manage eviction and marketing or renting of the properties. However, until foreclosure is completed, efforts at loss mitigation generally are continued. In addition, our loss mitigation department manages loans by borrowers who have declared bankruptcy. The primary objective of the bankruptcy group within our loss mitigation department, which utilizes outside legal counsel, is to proactively monitor bankruptcy assets and outside legal counsel to ensure compliance with individual plans and to ensure recovery in the event of non-compliance. Real Estate. The real estate-owned (REO) department is responsible for managing and or disposing of properties, located throughout the country, acquired through foreclosure in an orderly, timely, and cost-efficient manner in order to maximize our clients’ return on assets. These properties include 1-4 family residences, cooperative apartment and condominium units. We foreclose on property primarily with the intent to sell it at fair market value to recover a portion of the outstanding balance owed by the borrower. From time to time, foreclosed properties may be in need of repair or improvement in order to either increase the value of the property or reduce the time that the property is on the market. In those cases, the property is evaluated independently and we make a determination of whether the additional investment might increase the return upon sale or rental of the property. Deficiency Recovery & Judgment Processing Department (“Recovery”). The Recovery department pursues principally hard-to-collect consumer debt on a first, second, or third-placement basis. Our recovery department’s primary objective is to maximize the recovery of unpaid principal on each seriously delinquent account by offering borrowers multiple workout solutions and/or negotiated settlements. The recovery unit performs a complete analysis of the borrower’s financial situation, taking into consideration lien status, in order to determine the best course of action. Based on the results of our analysis, we determine to either continue collection efforts and a negotiated workout of settlement or seek judgment. Agents may qualify borrowers for Temporary Relief and Expanded Temporary Relief programs where appropriate. Agents will seek to perfect a judgment against a borrower and may seek wage garnishment, if economically justified by the borrowers’ finances and if provided by the client’s servicing agreement. 11 Table of Contents Face to Face Home Solutions (“Face to Face”). The Face to Face department seeks to reestablish connection with incommunicative borrowers and advise borrowers of available loss mitigation opportunities. Whether successful in meeting with a borrower or not, Face to Face agents confirm occupancy and report property conditions as well as any evidence of code violation or additional liens on the property. Training. Our training department works with all departments of our servicing operations to ensure that the employees of all departments are fully informed of the procedures necessary to complete their required tasks. The department ensures all loan servicing employees are trained in the tenents of the Fair Debt Collection Act as well as in effective communication skills. Quality Control. Our quality control department monitors all aspects of loan servicing from boarding through foreclosure. It is the department’s responsibility to ensure that the company’s policies and procedures are followed. Collection calls are monitored to ensure quality and compliance with the requirements of the federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and state collection laws. Monthly meetings with staff to discuss individual quality control scores are held and, in certain cases, further training is recommended. Reviews of the controls for privacy and information safeguarding and document removal are conducted monthly. Competition for Servicing Business The mortgage servicing and related services businesses are highly competitive. Competition for distressed asset and loss mitigation servicing has intensified in the past year due to the unprecedented difficult mortgage environment and severe credit tightening, coupled with the continuing recessionary economy, which has been evidenced by increasing delinquencies and defaults, eroding real estate values and government mandated modification programs. Our competitors in the subservicing space include mega mortgage servicers, established subprime loan servicers, and newer entrants to the specialty servicing and recovery collections business. Franklin’s efforts to market its ability to adequately service mortgage loans for others is more difficult than many of its competitors because (a) we have not historically provided such services to unrelated third parties, (b) we are not a rated primary or special servicer of residential mortgage loans as designated by a rating agency, such as Standard and Poor’s, and (c) our consolidated financial condition reflects operating losses and deficit net worth. Home Affordable Modification Program On September 11, 2009, FCMC voluntarily entered into an agreement to actively participate as a mortgage servicer in the Federal government’s Home Affordable Modification Program (“HAMP”) for first lien mortgage loans that are not owned or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. HAMP is a program, with borrower, mortgage servicer, and mortgage loan owner incentives, designed to enable eligible borrowers to avoid foreclosure through a more affordable and sustainable loan modification made in accordance with HAMP guidelines, procedures, directives, and requirements. If a borrower is not eligible for HAMP, FCMC considers other available loss mitigations options, as appropriate for the owner of the loans serviced. The Bank, as certificate trustee of the Trust, has consented to FCMC modifying eligible mortgage loans in accordance with HAMP. Under HAMP, subject to a program participation cap for potential mortgage loan owners, borrower and servicer compensation, FCMC, as a servicer, will receive a one time incentive payment of $1,000 for each loan modified in accordance with HAMP 12 Table of Contents (provided the borrower successfully completes a trial modification period of three months or longer if necessary to comply with applicable contractual obligations of the servicing client) and an additional one time bonus payment of $500 for such loan if the borrower had been current at the start of the modification trial period, but was facing imminent default. In addition, provided that a HAMP modification remains in good standing, under certain circumstances FCMC could be paid an additional annual fee of up to $1,000 per year for such loan for up to three years. On November 30, 2009, HAMP was expanded to include eligibility criteria for foreclosure alternatives such as deeds-in-lieu and short sales. FCMC, as of December 31, 2009, has solicited approximately 816 borrowers that are potentially eligible under HAMP. Under the terms of the Restructuring with the Bank, the Bank will have a security interest in certain amounts due or received under HAMP. In particular, (i) the Licensing Credit Agreement provides that the Bank will have a security interest in any monies or sums due to FCMC under HAMP and (ii) the Legacy Credit Agreement provides that the Bank will have a security interest in any monies, funds or sums due or received under HAMP by any of the entity Borrowers under the Legacy Credit Agreement, which entities do not include Franklin Holding and FCMC. As of December 31, 2009, FCMC had not received any fees under HAMP. Bosco Servicing Agreement On May 28, 2008, FCMC entered into various agreements, including a servicing agreement, to service on a fee-paying basis approximately $245 million in residential home equity line of credit mortgage loans for Bosco Credit LLC (“Bosco”). Bosco was organized by FCMC, and the membership interests in Bosco include the Company’s Chairman and President, Thomas J. Axon, and a related company of which Mr. Axon is the chairman of the board and three of the Company’s directors serve as board members of that entity. The loans that are subject to the servicing agreement were acquired by Bosco, from an unrelated third party, on May 28, 2008, and the Bank is the administrative agent for the lenders to Bosco. FCMC also provided the loan analysis, due diligence and other services for Bosco on a fee-paying basis for the loans acquired by Bosco. FCMC’s servicing agreement was approved by the Company’s Audit Committee. FCMC began servicing the Bosco portfolio in June 2008. Included in the Company’s consolidated revenues were servicing fees recognized from servicing the Bosco portfolio of $2,014,000 and $1,813,000 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, included in the Company’s consolidated revenues were fees recognized for various administrative services provided to Bosco by FCMC in the amount of $180,000 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008. The Company did not recognize any administrative fees in 2009 and wrote off as uncollectible the administrative fees recognized in 2008. On February 27, 2009, at the request of the Bosco Lenders, FCMC adopted a revised fee structure, which was approved by the Company’s Audit Committee. The revised fee structure provided that, for the next 12 months, FCMC’s monthly servicing fee would be paid only after a monthly loan modification fee of $29,000 was paid to Bosco’s Lenders. Further, the revised fee structure provided that, on each monthly payment date, if the aggregate amount of net collections was less than $1 million, 25% of FCMC’s servicing fee would be paid only after certain other monthly distributions were made, including, among other things, payments made by Bosco to repay its third-party indebtedness. On October 28, 2009, at the additional request of the Bosco Lenders in an effort to maximize cash flow to the Bosco Lenders and to avoid payment defaults by Bosco, the revised fee structure relating to deferred fees, which was adopted as of February 27, 2009, was adjusted through an amendment to the loan servicing agreement with Bosco (the “Bosco Amendment”), which was approved by the Company’s Audit Committee. 13 Table of Contents Under the terms of the Bosco Amendment, FCMC is entitled to a minimum monthly servicing fee of $50,000. However, to the extent that the servicing fee otherwise paid for any month would be in excess of the greater of $50,000 or 10% of the total cash collected on the loans serviced for Bosco (such amount being the “Monthly Cap”), the excess will be deferred, without the accrual of interest. The cumulative amounts deferred will be paid (i) with the payment of the monthly servicing fee, to the maximum extent possible, for any month in which the servicing fee is less than the applicable Monthly Cap, so long as the sum paid does not exceed the Monthly Cap or (ii) to the extent not previously paid, on the date on which any of the promissory notes (“Notes”) payable by Bosco to the Lenders, which were entered into to finance the purchase of and are secured by the loans serviced by FCMC, is repaid, refinanced, released, accelerated, or the amounts owing there under increased (other than by accrual or capitalization of interest). If the deferred servicing fees become payable by reason of acceleration of the Notes, the Lenders’ right to payment under such Notes shall be prior in right to FCMC’s rights to such deferred fees. Further, the Bosco Amendment provides that FCMC will not perform or be required to perform any field contact services for Bosco or make any servicing advances on behalf of Bosco that individually or in the aggregate would result in a cost or expense to Bosco of more than $10,000 per month, without the prior written consent and approval of the Lenders. The Bosco Amendment did not alter FCMC’s right to receive a certain percentage of collections after Bosco’s indebtedness to the Lenders has been repaid in full, the Bosco equity holders have been repaid in full the equity investment in Bosco made prior to Bosco entering into the loan agreement with the Lenders, and the Lenders and Bosco’s equity holders have received a specified rate of return on their debt and equity investments. The amount and timing of ancillary fees owed to the Company is the subject of a good faith dispute between the Company and the Managing Member of Bosco, Thomas Axon (the Company’s Chairman and President). However, even if the parties can resolve their differences amicably, there are no funds available to Bosco for payment for such services, since all funds from collections are required by Bosco’s agreements with its lenders to repay such lenders, aside from specific amounts required for servicing fees and other specifically excepted costs. On June 30, 2009, the Company wrote off $90,000 in internal accounting costs associated with services provided by FCMC to Bosco. On December 31, 2009, the Company wrote-off $372,000 in additional aged receivables, due to non-payment, consisting of (i) legal costs incurred by FCMC in 2008 related to the acquisition by Bosco of its loan portfolio and entry into a servicing agreement with Bosco; (ii) expenses for loan analysis, due diligence and other services performed for Bosco by FCMC in 2008 related to the acquisition by Bosco of the loan portfolio; and (iii) additional internal accounting costs for services provided to Bosco by FCMC through June 30, 2009. In addition, FCMC has not accrued fees for accounting costs estimated to be approximately $61,000 for the period of June 1, 2009 to December 31, 2009. FCMC determined to accept the deferrals and other amendments described above with respect to its Bosco relationship in recognition of the performance of the Bosco loan portfolio, which has been adversely impacted by general market and economic conditions, in an effort to maintain the continued and future viability of its servicing relationship with Bosco, and in the belief that doing so is in its best long-term economic interests in light of the fact that the Company believes FCMC’s servicing of the Bosco portfolio is profitable notwithstanding such deferrals and amendments. FCMC’s determination to not currently take legal action with respect to the receivables it has written off as described above, which receivables have not been settled or forgiven by FCMC, was made in light of these same considerations. Exclusive of the amounts written off related to the Bosco serviced loans, for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, the Company recognized a total of $2,014,000 in servicing fees for servicing the Bosco portfolio, of which $299,000 was not paid to FCMC and therefore deferred per the Bosco Amendment. As of December 31, 2009, FCMC had $409,000 of accrued and unpaid servicing fees due from Bosco (effective August 1, 2009, Franklin’s servicing fee income is recognized when cash is received), and $190,000 of reimbursable third party expenses incurred by FCMC in the servicing and collection of the Bosco loans. 14 Table of Contents Due Diligence Services The Company’s due diligence business is conducted principally through FCMC. During the first quarter of 2008, capitalizing on our portfolio acquisition experience with residential mortgage loans, the Company began providing due diligence services for third parties not related to us or the Bank, on a fee-paying basis. During 2008, we completed 13 due diligence or loan analysis and pricing assignments for third parties interested in acquiring mortgage loan pools. For the year ended December 31, 2009, revenue earned from our due diligence work for third parties was not meaningful. Financing Prior to 2008, we historically financed both our acquisitions of mortgage loan portfolios and our loan originations through various long and short-term borrowing arrangements with Sky Bank, the predecessor to the Bank. In October 2004, we consolidated all of our arrangements with the Bank relating to the term funding of loan acquisitions by Franklin under a Master Credit and Security Agreement (“Franklin Master Credit Facility”). Under this Master Credit Facility, we requested loans to finance the purchase of pools of residential mortgage loans or refinance existing outstanding loans. On December 28, 2007, we entered into forbearance agreements with the Bank with respect to the Master Credit Facility (the “Franklin Forbearance Agreement”) and the credit facilities of the Company’s loan origination company, Tribeca (the “Tribeca Forbearance Agreement” and together with the Franklin Forbearance Agreement, the “Forbearance Agreements”). Effective March 31, 2009, Franklin entered into a series of Restructuring Agreements with the Bank, pursuant to which the Company’s debt, loans, pledges and guarantees with the Bank and its participating banks were substantially restructured, and approximately 83% of the Portfolio (in the form of trust certificates), while not removed from the Company’s balance sheet, was transferred to a real estate investment trust wholly-owned by a subsidiary of the Bank. Except for approximately $39.5 million of the Company’s debt that remains subject to the original terms of the Franklin Master Credit Facility and the Franklin Forbearance Agreement, all previous Forbearance Agreements and credit agreements have been replaced effective March 31, 2009 by the Restructuring Agreements. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Borrowings.” In December 2008, the Company engaged in the Reorganization in which the Company (i) adopted a holding company form of organizational structure, with Franklin Holding serving as the new public-company parent, (ii) transferred all of the equity and membership interests in FCMC’s direct subsidiaries to other entities in the reorganized corporate structure of the Company, (iii) assigned legal record ownership of any loans in the Company’s portfolios held directly by FCMC and Tribeca, to other entities in the reorganized corporate structure of the Company, and (iv) amended its loan agreements with Huntington. As a result, Franklin Credit Holding Corporation is the successor issuer to FCMC. In the Reorganization, FCMC became a subsidiary of Franklin Holding and ceased to have any subsidiaries and, therefore, ceased to have portfolios of loans and real estate properties and the related indebtedness to the Bank. Corporate History We were formed in 1990 by, among others, Thomas J. Axon, our Chairman and President, and Frank B. Evans, Jr., one of our directors, for the purpose of acquiring consumer loan portfolios from the Resolution Trust Company, or RTC, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC. We became a public company in December 1994, when we merged with Miramar Resources, Inc., a publicly traded oil and gas company that had emerged from bankruptcy proceedings in December 1993. The newly formed entity was renamed Franklin Credit Management Corporation. At the time of the merger, we divested substantially all of the remaining oil and gas assets directly owned by Miramar in order to focus primarily on the non-conforming sector of the residential mortgage industry. At that time, we decided to capitalize on our experience and expertise in acquiring and servicing loans from the RTC and the FDIC and began purchasing performing, reperforming and nonperforming residential mortgage loans from additional financial institutions. In 1997, we formed Tribeca to originate subprime residential mortgage loans. 15 Table of Contents December 2008 Corporate Reorganization Franklin Credit Holding Corporation (“Franklin Holding,” and together with its direct and indirect subsidiaries, the “Company”) is the successor issuer to Franklin Credit Management Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the “Predecessor” or “FCMC”). On December 19, 2008, the Company engaged in a series of transactions (the “Reorganization”) in which the Company: (i) adopted a holding company form of organizational structure, with Franklin Holding serving as the new public-company parent; (ii) transferred all of the equity and membership interests in FCMC’s direct subsidiaries to other entities in the reorganized corporate structure of the Company; (iii) assigned legal record ownership of any loans in the Company’s portfolios held directly by FCMC and Tribeca Lending Corporation, a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of FCMC (“Tribeca”), to other entities in the reorganized corporate structure of the Company; and, (iv) amended its loan agreements with The Huntington National Bank (“Huntington”), its lead lending bank. In the Reorganization, FCMC became a subsidiary of Franklin Holding and ceased to have any subsidiaries. The Reorganization: • resulted in various licensing authorities evaluating FCMC’s servicing platform’s compliance with applicable license requirements (including net worth requirements) without reference to the loan portfolios and related indebtedness of the other entities in the reorganized corporate structure of the Company, and accordingly, with positive net worth; and, • enhanced the Company’s flexibility to potentially grow its servicing business and take advantage of other corporate restructuring opportunities should they become available. The business operations and financial condition of the Company, including the Company’s substantial negative net worth, did not change as a result of the Reorganization. However, by divesting itself of its subsidiaries, including those which are borrowers under the Company’s lending agreements with Huntington, FCMC’s financial condition changed from substantial negative net worth to positive net worth. The Company’s common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the trading symbol “FCMC.OB.” 16 Table of Contents Holding Company Structure The Predecessor adopted a holding company form of organizational structure pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, by and among the Predecessor, Franklin Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Merger Sub”), and Franklin Holding, dated as of December 19, 2008 (the “Merger Agreement”). To implement the Merger Agreement, the Predecessor filed a Certificate of Merger (the “Certificate of Merger”) with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on December 19, 2008. The holding company organizational structure was adopted by means of a merger implemented in accordance with Section 251(g) of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”), which provides for the formation of a holding company structure without a vote of the stockholders of the constituent corporations. Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub merged with and into the Predecessor (the “Merger”), with the Predecessor being the surviving corporation. As a result of the Merger, which was consummated on December 19, 2008 (the “Effective Time”), the Predecessor became a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of Franklin Holding. In accordance with terms of the Merger Agreement: (i) each share of common stock of the Predecessor (the “Predecessor Common Stock”) issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Merger was converted into a share of common stock of Franklin Holding (“Franklin Holding Common Stock”) having the same designations, rights, powers and preferences, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, as the share of Predecessor Common Stock so converted; and, (ii) each share of capital stock of Merger Sub issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Merger was converted into a share of common stock of the Predecessor. Except for certain amendments to the certificate of incorporation of the Predecessor effected in accordance with Section 251(g) of the DGCL in conjunction with the Merger, which has since been deleted with the approval of a super majority of the shareholders of Franklin Holding, the provisions of the certificate of incorporation of Franklin Holding, including its authorized capital stock and the designations, rights, powers and preferences of such capital stock, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, are identical to those of the Predecessor immediately prior to the Merger. As a result, no post-Merger exchange of stock certificates was made and outstanding shares of Predecessor Common Stock were automatically converted into shares of Franklin Holding Common Stock. The provisions of the bylaws of Franklin Holding following the Merger are identical to the provisions of the bylaws of the Predecessor in effect immediately prior to the Merger. The directors of Franklin Holding immediately after the Merger were the same individuals as were directors of the Predecessor immediately prior thereto. The management of Franklin Holding immediately after the Merger was the same as the management of the Predecessor immediately prior to the Merger. The Company believes that the Merger qualifies as a tax-free reorganization under Section 351 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and, as a result, the stockholders of the Predecessor will not recognize gain or loss for United States federal income tax purposes. 17 Table of Contents Legacy Portfolio Characteristics Overall Legacy Portfolio Due to the Restructuring and the exchange of loans and other real estate owned for trust certificates effectuated as of March 31, 2009, the Company does not have any significant portfolios of loans that it manages as the investor and no longer has portfolios classified as held to maturity. Although the transfer of the trust certificates was structured in substance as a sale of financial assets, the transfer, for accounting purposes, is treated as a financing under GAAP, and, therefore, the assets remain on the Company’s balance sheet. As part of the Restructuring, the Company, through FCMC, changed its business model to a specialty consumer finance company primarily engaged in the servicing and resolution of performing, reperforming and nonperforming residential mortgage loans, including specialized loan recovery servicing, and in the due diligence, analysis, pricing and acquisition of residential mortgage portfolios, for third parties. As a result, FCMC’s revenues are derived principally from the fees earned from servicing and providing recovery servicing for third parties. Therefore, the tables that follow regarding the Company’s legacy loan portfolios are only for December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2008, the legacy portfolio (excluding OREO) consisted of $1.14 billion of notes receivable (inclusive of purchase discount not reflected on the face of the balance sheet) and $395.2 million of loans held for investment. Throughout the Portfolio Characteristics section, unless otherwise indicated or required by the context of the description, all loan amounts refer to the unpaid principal balance (“UPB”). The following table sets forth information regarding the types of properties securing the legacy loans at December 31, 2008. Unpaid Percentage of Total Property Types Principal Balance Principal Balance Residential 1-4 family $ 1,268,478,890 82.41 % Condos, co-ops, PUD dwellings 193,149,884 12.55 % Manufactured and mobile homes 15,135,861 0.98 % Multi-family 443,023 0.03 % Secured, property type unknown(1) 18,464,780 1.20 % Commercial 1,920,922 0.12 % Unsecured loans(2) 41,678,994 2.71 % Total $ 1,539,272,354 100.00 % (1) The loans included in this category are principally small balance (less than $10,000) second-lien loans acquired, and are collateralized by residential real estate. (2) The loans included in this category are principally second-lien loans where the Company is aware that residential real estate collateral has been foreclosed by the first-lien holder. 18 Table of Contents Asset Quality Delinquency. Because we specialized in acquiring and servicing loans with erratic payment patterns and an elevated level of credit risk, a portion of the loans we acquired were, upon acquisition, in various stages of delinquency, foreclosure and bankruptcy. We monitored the payment status of our borrowers based on both contractual delinquency and recency delinquency, and as servicer for third parties we continue to do so. By contractual delinquency, we mean the delinquency of payments relative to the contractual obligations of the borrower. By recency delinquency, we mean the recency of the most recent full monthly payment received from the borrower. By way of illustration, on a recency delinquency basis, if the borrower had made the most recent full monthly payment within the past 30 days, the loan is shown as current regardless of the number of contractually delinquent payments. In contrast, on a contractual delinquency basis, if the borrower had made the most recent full monthly payment, but had missed an earlier payment or payments, the loan is shown as contractually delinquent. We classified a loan as in foreclosure when we determined that the best course of action to maximize recovery of unpaid principal balance would be to begin the foreclosure process. We classified a loan as in bankruptcy generally when we received notice of a bankruptcy filing from the bankruptcy court. We classified a previously delinquent or performing loan as modified when we had restructured the loan due principally to the borrower’s deteriorated financial situation, and, as a condition to the closing of the modification, had received at least one full monthly payment at the time of the closing of the modification. Modified loans were classified as current on both a contractual and recency basis at the time of the modification. As of December 31, 2008, principally all of our loan modifications included a deferral of the past due and uncollected interest or a reduction in the interest rate. Interest rate reduction modifications were generally for a period of one year, and for rate reduction modifications of delinquent loans, also incorporate a deferral of the past due and uncollected interest. Approximately 20% of our modified loans as of December 31, 2008 were modified a second time due to the borrower’s difficulty in making payments in accordance with the initial modification. We extended modifications based on our evaluation of the borrower’s deteriorated financial situation. Approximately 85% of all loan modifications as of December 31, 2008 were performing loans that were delinquent on a contractual basis less than 90 days at the time of modification, including approximately 67% that were in a current status on a contractual basis. 19 Table of Contents The following table provides a breakdown of the delinquency status of our notes receivable and loans held for investment as of December 31, 2008, by unpaid principal balance. December 31, 2008 Contractual Delinquency Recency Delinquency Days Past Due Amount % Amount % Performing — Current 0 - 30 days $ 373,712,487 24.28 % $ 419,653,369 27.26 % Delinquent 31 - 60 days 30,511,251 1.98 % 25,910,879 1.69 % 61 - 90 days 4,302,736 0.28 % 21,390,383 1.39 % 90+ days 128,904,056 8.38 % 70,475,899 4.58 % Modified Loans 0 - 30 days 262,156,611 17.03 % 299,215,550 19.44 % Delinquent 31 - 60 days 46,097,510 2.99 % 32,572,746 2.12 % 61 - 90 days 1,195,906 0.08 % 15,542,772 1.01 % 90+ days 78,911,624 5.13 % 41,030,583 2.66 % Bankruptcy 0 - 30 days 26,527,458 1.72 % 62,020,559 4.03 % Delinquent 31 - 60 days 5,929,387 0.38 % 10,264,968 0.67 % 61 - 90 days 1,644,545 0.11 % 4,623,655 0.30 % 90+ days 90,762,522 5.90 % 47,954,730 3.11 % Foreclosure 0 - 30 days 2,575,557 0.16 % 19,594,271 1.27 % Delinquent 31 - 60 days 743,187 0.05 % 7,639,599 0.50 % 61 - 90 days 123,808 0.01 % 7,248,534 0.47 % 90+ days 485,173,709 31.52 % 454,133,857 29.50 % Total $ 1,539,272,354 100.00 % $ 1,539,272,354 100.00 % All current loans 0 - 30 days $ 664,972,113 43.20 % $ 800,483,749 52.00 % Included in the foreclosure category were approximately $189.4 million of loans for which the Company had proceeded to file a judgment action against the borrower on the note personally instead of seeking to foreclose on the related collateral. Approximately $184.2 million of these loans were second-lien loans. Judgments were obtained on approximately $6.0 million of loans, of which approximately $5.2 million were second-lien loans. Included in the above table were second-lien mortgage loans in our notes receivable portfolio in the amount of $754.1 million, of which $334.3 million and $371.9 million were current on a contractual and recency basis, respectively. The legal status composition of the second-lien mortgage loans at December 31, 2008 was: $344.5 million, or 46%, were performing; $110.9 million, or 15%, were modified due to delinquency or the borrower’s financial difficulty; $55.3 million, or 7%, were in bankruptcy; and, $243.4 million, or 32%, were in foreclosure (including $189.3 million where a judgment action had been filed against the borrower on the note personally or where judgments had been obtained). At December 31, 2008, $29.3 million of the modified second-lien loans were delinquent on a contractual basis, while $24.1 million of the modified second-lien loans were delinquent on a recency basis. 20 Table of Contents Legacy Notes Receivable Portfolio Due to the Restructuring and the exchange of loans and other real estate owned for trust certificates effective March 31, 2009, the Company does not have any significant portfolios of loans that it manages as the investor and no longer has a notes receivable portfolio classified as held to maturity. Therefore, the tables that follow are only as of December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2008, the legacy notes receivable portfolio included approximately 22,817 loans with an aggregate UPB of $1.14 billion. Impaired loans comprised a significant portion of our portfolio. Many of the loans we acquired were impaired loans at the time of purchase. We generally purchased such loans at discounts and considered the payment status, underlying collateral value and expected cash flows when determining our purchase price. While interest income generally was not accrued on impaired loans, interest and fees were received on a portion of loans classified as impaired. The following table provides a breakdown of the legacy notes receivable portfolio by performing and impaired loans at December 31, 2008: December 31, 2008 Performing loans $ 528,953,209 Allowance for loan losses 130,724,698 Nonaccretable discount* 25,277,808 Total performing loans, net allowance for loan losses and nonaccretable discount 372,950,703 Impaired loans 615,159,200 Allowance for loan losses 340,368,461 Nonaccretable discount* 72,325,558 Total impaired loans, net allowance for loan losses and nonaccretable discount 202,465,181 Total notes receivable, net allowance for loan losses and nonaccretable discount 575,415,884 Accretable discount* 24,860,752 Total notes receivable, net allowance for loan losses and accretable/nonaccretable discount $ 550,555,132 * Represents purchase discount not reflected on the face of the balance sheet in accordance with Topic 310, Loans and Debt Securities Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality, for loans acquired after December 31, 2004. Accretable Discount is the excess of the loan’s estimated cash flows over the purchase prices, which is accreted into income over the life of the loan. Nonaccretable Discount is the excess of the undiscounted contractual cash flows over the undiscounted cash flows estimated at the time of acquisition. Changes in the allowance for loan losses and nonaccretable discount were principally the result of movement of loans between “performing” and “impaired” classifications. 21 Table of Contents The following table provides a breakdown of the balance of our legacy portfolio of notes receivable between fixed-rate and adjustable-rate loans, net of allowance for loan losses as of December 31, 2008. December 31, 2008 Performing Loans: Fixed rate $ 325,799,144 Adjustable rate 72,429,367 Total Performing Loans $ 398,228,511 Impaired Loans: Fixed rate $ 162,504,488 Adjustable rate 112,286,251 Total Impaired Loans $ 274,790,739 Total Notes $ 673,019,250 Accretable discount $ 24,860,752 Nonaccretable discount $ 97,603,366 Total Notes Receivable, net of allowance for loan losses $ 550,555,132 Impaired loans comprised a significant portion of the legacy notes receivable portfolio. Many of the loans we acquired were impaired loans at the time of purchase. We generally purchased such loans at discounts and considered the payment status, underlying collateral value and expected cash flows when determining our purchase price. While interest income generally was not accrued on impaired loans, interest and fees were received on a portion of loans classified as impaired. Lien Position. The following table sets forth information regarding the lien position of the properties securing the legacy portfolio of notes receivable at December 31, 2008: December 31, 2008 Percentage of Total Lien Position Principal Balance Principal Balance 1st Liens $ 390,020,158 34.09 % 2nd Liens 754,092,251 65.91 % Total $ 1,144,112,409 100.00 % 22 Table of Contents Other Real Estate Owned The following table sets forth the legacy real estate owned, or OREO portfolio, and OREO sales during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008: 2009 2008 Other real estate owned $ — $ 60,748,390 OREO as a percentage of total assets — 5.94 % OREO sold (prior to the Restructuring) $ 18,852,671 $ 41,609,095 Gain on sale $ 374,344 $ 2,213,998 Due to the Restructuring effective March 31, 2009, any gains and losses on sales of OREO properties supporting the investment in trust certificates and mortgage loans and real estate properties held for sale are included in fair valuation adjustments. Property Types of Originated Loans Held for Investment. Due to the Restructuring and the exchange of loans and other real estate owned for trust certificates effective March 31, 2009, the Company no longer had loans it originated that it manages as the investor and no longer had a portfolio of originated loans held for investment. Therefore, the table that follows is only as of December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2008, the legacy portfolio of originated loans held for investment consisted of 1,728 loans with an aggregate unpaid principal balance of $395.2 million of previously originated loans that are held for investment. The following table sets forth information regarding the types of properties securing the legacy portfolio of loans held for investment at December 31, 2008. December 31, 2008 Unpaid Percentage of Total Property Types Principal Balance Principal Balance Residential 1-4 family $ 366,986,696 92.87 % Condos, co-ops, PUD dwellings 26,235,944 6.64 % Commercial 1,213,370 0.31 % Other 723,935 0.18 % Total $ 395,159,945 * 100.00 % * UPB before net deferred fees and allowance for loan losses. At December 31, 2008, the Company did not have any loans held for sale. 23 Table of Contents Geographic Dispersion of Originated Loans Held for Investment. The following table sets forth information regarding the geographic location of properties securing all legacy loans held for investment at December 31, 2008: December 31, 2008 Principal Percentage of Total Location Balance Principal Balance New York $ 123,880,052 31.35 % New Jersey 110,711,384 28.02 % Pennsylvania 36,953,589 9.35 % Florida 21,861,359 5.53 % Maryland 19,009,954 4.81 % Massachusetts 16,962,889 4.29 % Connecticut 14,686,403 3.72 % Virginia 13,589,808 3.44 % California 9,479,743 2.40 % North Carolina 4,316,450 1.09 % All Others 23,708,314 6.00 % Total $ 395,159,945 * 100.00 % * UPB before net deferred fees and allowance for loan losses. 24 Table of Contents Delinquency. Because we specialized in originating residential mortgage loans for individuals with credit histories, income and/or factors that caused them to be classified as subprime borrowers, a substantially greater portion of the loans we originated experience varying degrees of delinquency, foreclosure and bankruptcy than those of prime lenders. We monitored the payment status of our borrowers based on both contractual delinquency and recency delinquency. By contractual delinquency, we mean the delinquency of payments relative to the contractual obligations of the borrower. By recency delinquency, we mean the recency of the most recent full monthly payment received from the borrower. By way of illustration, on a recency delinquency basis, if the borrower has made the most recent full monthly payment within the past 30 days, the loan is shown as current regardless of the number of contractually delinquent payments. In contrast, on a contractual delinquency basis, if the borrower made the most recent full monthly payment, but missed an earlier payment or payments, the loan was shown as contractually delinquent. We classified a loan as in foreclosure when we determined that the best course of action to maximize recovery of unpaid principal balance was to begin the foreclosure process. We classified a loan as in bankruptcy generally when we received notice of a bankruptcy filing from the bankruptcy court. We classified a previously delinquent or performing loan as modified when we restructured the loan due principally to the borrower’s deteriorated financial situation, and, as a condition to the closing of the modification, received at least one full monthly payment at the time of the closing of the modification. Modified loans were classified as current on both a contractual and recency basis at the time of the modification. As of December 31, 2008, principally all of our loan modifications included a deferral of the past due and uncollected interest or a reduction in the interest rate. Interest rate reduction modifications generally were for a period of one year, and for the rate reduction modifications of delinquent loans, also incorporated a deferral of the past due and uncollected interest. Approximately 29% of our modified loans as of December 31, 2008 were modified a second time due to the borrower’s difficulty in making payments in accordance with the initial modification. During the year 2008, due to the continued decline in housing prices nationally, the deterioration in mortgage markets, and the slowing economy in the latter part of the year with increasing unemployment and the increased delinquency performance of the originated loans in the Company’s portfolios, we moved more quickly to identify those borrowers who were likely to move into seriously delinquent status and attempted to promptly apply appropriate loss mitigation strategies to encourage positive payment performance. Accordingly, beginning in 2008, we strengthened our servicing staff and intensified our efforts to work with borrowers to modify their loans. During 2008, we completed approximately $182.6 million of loan modifications (unpaid principal balance), including interest rate reduction modifications on approximately $86.6 million of loans. As of December 31, 2008, total loan modifications amounted to $155.3 million, which included approximately $83.5 million of interest rate reductions. The average interest rate reduction on the $86.6 million of rate modified loans was approximately 4.41% at December 31, 2008, from an average of approximately 11.45% to an average of approximately 7.05%. Approximately 82% of the modifications as of December 31, 2008 were performing loans that were delinquent on a contractual basis less than 90 days at the time of modification, including approximately 61% that were in a current status on a contractual basis and granted modifications based on our evaluation of the borrower’s deteriorated financial situation. During 2008, approximately $44.5 million of modified loans were modified a second time due to the inability of borrowers to meet the terms of the original modification agreements. At December 31, 2008, $60.6 million, or approximately 39%, of modified loans were delinquent on a contractual basis, and $40.8 million, or approximately 26%, were delinquent on a recency basis. 25 Table of Contents The following tables provide a breakdown of the delinquency status of the legacy loans held for investment portfolio, loans that we originated prior to November 2007, as of December 31, 2008, by principal balance: December 31, 2008 Contractual Delinquency Recency Delinquency Days Past Due Amount % Amount % Performing — Current 0 - 30 days $ 36,507,373 9.24 % $ 44,588,755 11.28 % Delinquent 31 - 60 days 3,581,801 0.91 % 3,481,770 0.88 % 61 - 90 days — — 3,502,244 0.89 % 90+ days 15,384,265 3.89 % 3,900,670 0.99 % Modified Loans 0 - 30 days 94,745,106 23.98 % 114,563,000 28.99 % Delinquent 31 - 60 days 22,270,155 5.64 % 13,869,945 3.51 % 61 - 90 days — — 6,542,880 1.66 % 90+ days 38,332,095 9.70 % 20,371,531 5.16 % Bankruptcy 0 - 30 days 1,059,398 0.27 % 6,454,645 1.63 % Delinquent 31 - 60 days 35,838 0.01 % 3,258,305 0.83 % 61 - 90 days — — 1,620,981 0.41 % 90+ days 25,146,648 6.36 % 14,907,953 3.77 % Foreclosure 0 - 30 days 558,299 0.14 % 7,335,438 1.85 % Delinquent 31 - 60 days 128,777 0.03 % 3,750,505 0.95 % 61 - 90 days — — 3,741,529 0.95 % 90+ days 157,410,190 39.83 % 143,269,794 36.25 % Total $ 395,159,945 100.00 % $ 395,159,945 100.00 % All current loans 0 - 30 days $ 132,870,176 33.62 % $ 172,941,838 43.77 % Included in the foreclosure category was approximately $446,000 of loans for which the Company had proceeded to file a judgment action against the borrower on the note personally instead of seeking to foreclose on the related collateral. Approximately $401,000 of these loans was second-lien loans. Judgments were obtained on approximately $150,000 of loans, all of which are second-lien loans. 26 Table of Contents Government Regulation The mortgage lending, servicing and collection industry is highly regulated. Our business is regulated by federal, state and local government authorities and is subject to federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations, as well as judicial and administrative decisions that impose requirements and restrictions on our business. At the federal level, these laws, rules and regulations include: • the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B; • the Truth in Lending Act and Regulation Z; • the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act; • the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, and Regulation X; • the Fair Credit Reporting Act; • the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act; • the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, and Regulation C; • the Fair Housing Act; • the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act; • the Telephone Consumer Protection Act; • the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act; • the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act; • the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act; • the CAN-SPAM Act; • the Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008; and, • the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act of 2009. States have also in some instances enacted their own variants of the foregoing laws, rules and regulations, especially with respect to those laws, rules and regulations that address anti-predatory lending and servicing or privacy issues. These laws, rules and regulations, among other things: • impose licensing obligations and financial requirements on us; • limit the interest rates, finance charges, and other fees that we may charge; • prohibit discrimination both in the extension of credit and in the terms and conditions on which credit is extended; 27 Table of Contents • prohibit the payment of kickbacks for the referral of business incident to a real estate settlement service; • impose underwriting requirements; • mandate various disclosures and notices to consumers, as well as disclosures to governmental entities; • mandate the collection and reporting of statistical data regarding our customers; • require us to safeguard non-public information about our customers; • regulate our collection, loss mitigation and loan modification practices; • require us to combat money-laundering and avoid doing business with suspected terrorists; • restrict the marketing practices utilized to find customers, including restrictions on outbound telemarketing; and, • impose, in some cases, assignee liability on us as purchaser or seller of mortgage loans as well as the entities that purchase our mortgage loans. Our failure to comply with these laws can lead to: • civil and criminal liability, including potential monetary penalties; • loss of servicing licenses or approved status required for continued business operations; • demands for indemnification or loan repurchases from purchasers of our loans; • legal defenses causing delay and expense; • adverse effects on our ability, as servicer, to enforce loans; • the imposition of supervisory agreements and cease-and-desist orders; • the borrower having the right to rescind or cancel the loan transaction; • adverse publicity; • individual and class action lawsuits; • administrative enforcement actions; • damage to our reputation in the industry; or, • inability to obtain credit to fund our operations. 28 Table of Contents Although we have systems and procedures directed to compliance with these legal requirements and believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable federal, state and local statutes, rules and regulations, we cannot provide assurance that more restrictive laws and regulations will not be adopted in the future, or that governmental bodies will not interpret existing laws or regulations in a more restrictive matter, which could render our current business practices non-compliant or which could make compliance more difficult or expensive. These applicable laws and regulations are subject to administrative or judicial interpretation, but some of these laws and regulations have been enacted only recently or may be interpreted infrequently or only recently and inconsistently. As a result of infrequent, sparse or conflicting interpretations, ambiguities in these laws and regulations may leave uncertainty with respect to permitted or restricted conduct under them. Any ambiguity under a law to which we are subject may lead to non-compliance with applicable regulatory laws and regulations. We actively analyze and monitor the laws, rules and regulations that apply to our business, as well as the changes to such laws, rules and regulations. New Areas of Regulation We are subject to numerous laws and regulations as a result of our historical business as an originator and acquirer of residential mortgage loans, as well as our historical and current business of servicing such loans and providing due diligence services for third parties. Furthermore, many new laws and regulations applicable to the mortgage industry have recently been enacted and promulgated in response to what some have alleged to be unfair and deceptive trade practices even prior to the enactment of such new laws and regulations. Our summary below includes such laws and regulations which may, in that context, need to be considered in context of our historical activities. In addition, our clients expect us to be generally aware of new laws and regulations affecting the mortgage industry that may apply to them. Regulatory and legal requirements are subject to change, making our compliance more difficult or expensive, or otherwise restricting our ability to conduct our business as it is now conducted. In particular, federal, state and local governments have become more active in the consumer protection area in recent years. For example, the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley financial reform legislation imposed additional privacy obligations with respect to applicants and borrowers. Several states have enacted privacy laws. For example, Vermont privacy laws require the affirmative consent of the consumer to certain information sharing. California has two privacy laws that relate to our operations, the California Financial Information Privacy Act and the California On-Line Privacy Protection Act, both of which impose additional notification obligations on us that are not preempted by existing federal law. Other states are also considering adopting privacy legislation. If states adopt a variety of inconsistent state privacy legislation, our compliance costs could substantially increase. The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, enacted in December 2003, required us to provide additional disclosures when a loan application was not approved. Additional requirements apply to our use of consumer reports and our furnishing of information to the consumer reporting agencies. Additionally, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the federal agency that administers Regulation X, promulgated regulations that became effective on January 1, 2010 and substantially augmented the disclosure requirements and prohibitions association with the issuance of the Good Faith Estimate of Settlement charges and the HUD-1 Settlement Statement. Moreover, several federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations have been adopted, or are under consideration, that are intended to protect consumers from predatory lending and servicing practices. Local, state and federal legislatures, state and federal banking regulatory agencies, state attorneys general offices, the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Justice, the Department of Housing and Urban Development and state and local governmental authorities have increased their focus on lending and servicing practices by some companies, primarily in the non-prime lending industry, sometimes referred to as “predatory lending” practices. Further, some states have enacted laws that require that refinancings of residential loans that are secured by the principal residence of the borrower be in the “borrower’s interest” or confer a “net tangible benefit” to the borrower. Sanctions have been imposed by various agencies for practices such as charging excessive fees, imposing higher interest rates than the credit risk of some borrowers warrant, failing to disclose adequately the material terms of loans to borrowers and abrasive servicing and collections practices. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the regulator of national banks, issued a final regulation in 2004 that prescribed an explicit anti-predatory lending standard without regard to a trigger test based on the cost of the loan. This regulation prohibits a national bank from, among other restrictions, making a loan based predominately on the foreclosure value of the borrower’s home, rather than the borrower’s repayment ability, including current and expected income, current obligations, employment status and relevant financial resources. This restriction would prevent national banks and their operating subsidiaries from purchasing the variation of the Liberty Loan where no assessment was made of the borrower’s ability to repay the loan. 29 Table of Contents On May 16, 2005, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of Thrift Supervision, and the National Credit Union Administration (the “Agencies”) jointly issued “Credit Risk Management Guidance for Home Equity Lending.” The guidance promotes sound credit risk management practices for institutions engaged in home equity lending (both home equity lines of credit and closed-end home equity loans). Among other risk factors, the Guidance cautions lenders to consider all relevant risk factors when establishing product offerings and underwriting guidelines, including a borrower’s income and debt levels, credit score (if obtained), and credit history, as well as the loan size, collateral value, lien position, and property type and location. It stresses that prudently underwritten home equity loans should include an evaluation of a borrower’s capacity to adequately service the debt, and that reliance on a credit score is insufficient because it relies on historical financial performance rather than present capacity to pay. While not specifically applicable to loans originated by Tribeca, the guidance is instructive of the regulatory climate covering low and no documentation loans, such as certain of Tribeca’s Liberty Loan products. On June 29, 2007, the Agencies released their final statement on subprime mortgage lending to address certain concerns of the Agencies that subprime borrowers may not fully understand the risk and consequences of certain adjustable-rate mortgage products. The Agencies expressed particular concern with (1) marketing products to subprime borrowers offering low initial payments based on an introductory (“teaser”) rate that is considerably lower than the fully indexed rate; (2) approving borrowers without considering appropriate documentation of their income; (3) setting very high or no limits on payment or interest rate increases at reset periods; (4) loan product features likely to result in frequent refinancing to maintain an affordable monthly payment; (5) including substantial prepayment penalties and/or prepayment penalties that extend beyond the initial rate adjustment period; and (6) providing borrowers with inadequate information relative to product features, material loan terms and products risks. The final statement identified underwriting standards, consumer protection principles and control systems applicable to subprime mortgage loans that focus on the importance of evaluating the borrower’s ability to repay the debt by its final maturity at the fully indexed rate and providing information that enable consumers to understand material terms, costs, and risks. The Agencies caution their regulated institutions against making mortgage loans based predominately on the foreclosure or liquidation value of a borrower’s collateral rather than on the borrower’s ability to repay the mortgage according to its terms, inducing a borrower to repeatedly refinance a loan in order to charge high points and fees each time a loan is refinanced and engaging in fraud or deception to conceal the true nature of the mortgage loan obligation. The Agencies also advised their regulated institutions that when underwriting higher risk loans, stated income and reduced documentation should be accepted only if there are mitigating factors that clearly minimize the need for direct verification of repayment capacity. A higher interest rate is not considered a mitigating factor. While the final statement, in part, discusses subprime products that were not offered by Tribeca such as loans with “teaser” rates, the final statement appears to apply strict standards for all types of subprime loans and is instructive of the regulatory climate concerning subprime mortgage loans, such as Tribeca’s Liberty Loan, where the lending decision was or may have been based entirely or primarily on the borrower’s equity in his or her home and not, or to a lesser extent, on a determination of the borrower’s ability to repay the loan. In addition, as with the 2006 Interagency Guidance on Nontraditional Mortgage Product Risks for mortgages where the borrower is able to defer repayment of principal for a period of time (interest only-loans and Pay Option ARMs), state regulators have adopted similar standards applicable to the institutions they regulate, which included Tribeca. On July 17, 2007, the American Association of Residential Mortgage Regulators (AARMR), which is comprised of state officials with responsibility for regulating state licensed mortgage lenders and brokers, in conjunction with the Conference of State Bank Supervisors (CSBS) and the National Association of Consumer Credit Regulators (NACCA), issued a statement on subprime lending that is substantially similar to the Agencies’ final statement and which, as of July 7, 2008, has been adopted in 40 states in addition to the District of Columbia. 30 Table of Contents A key mortgage industry tool for finding new borrowers is under recent attack in class action litigation across the country. Those class actions have been filed by attorneys seeking to capitalize on a 2004 decision of the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals, Cole v. U.S. Capital, Inc. (“Cole”) interpreting the meaning of “firm offers of credit” under the Fair Credit Reporting Act (“FCRA”). A prescreened or firm offer is any offer of credit to a consumer that will be honored if the consumer is determined, based on information in a consumer report on the consumer, to meet the specific criteria used to select the consumer for the offer. Cole was the first case in the nation to hold that an offer of nominal “value” to the consumer, which could arise from a combination of factors such as a low dollar amount of the offered credit, ambiguous or contradictory terms, or complex approval procedures, may not actually qualify as a “firm offer” under FCRA, even if the stated amount is guaranteed. Recent courts to address the issue have split on the issue. Some of the courts in these recent cases have concluded that the defendant’s violation of FCRA was “willful.” FCRA distinguishes negligent or inadvertent non-compliance from “willful” violations by the damages that are available. Specifically, FCRA provides for statutory damages of $100-$1,000 per violation for “willful” violations and permits punitive damages as well. By contrast, FCRA provides that a defendant whose non-compliance was merely negligent will be liable only for “actual damages sustained by the consumer as a result of the failure.” This distinction is significant because FCRA does not have a cap for statutory damages in a class action, unlike other federal statutes regulating consumer lending which cap statutory damages in a class action at a maximum of $500,000 or one percent of the creditor’s net worth, whichever is less. If we are named as a defendant in a firm offer class action, and the court were to find that the violation was willful, we could face substantial liability that could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operations. HOEPA identifies a category of mortgage loans and subjects such loans to restrictions not applicable to other mortgage loans. Loans subject to HOEPA consist of loans on which certain points and fees or the annual percentage rate, known as the APR, exceed specified levels. Liability for violations of applicable law with regard to loans subject to HOEPA would extend not only to us, but to the institutional purchasers of our loans as well. It was our policy to seek not to originate loans that were subject to HOEPA or state and local laws discussed in the following paragraph or purchase high cost loans that violated such laws. Non-compliance with HOEPA and other applicable laws may lead to demands for indemnification or loan repurchases from our institutional loan purchasers, class action lawsuits and administrative enforcement actions. Laws, rules and regulations have been adopted, or are under consideration, at the state and local levels that are similar to HOEPA in that they impose certain restrictions on loans on which certain points and fees or the APR exceeds specified thresholds, which generally are lower than under federal law. These restrictions include prohibitions on steering borrowers into loans with high interest rates and away from more affordable products, selling unnecessary insurance to borrowers, flipping or repeatedly refinancing loans and making loans without a reasonable expectation that the borrowers will be able to repay the loans. If the numerical thresholds were miscalculated, certain variations of our Liberty Loan product, where the lending decision was or may have been based entirely or primarily on the borrower’s equity in his or her home and not, or to a lesser extent, on a determination of the borrower’s ability to repay the loan, would violate HOEPA and many of these state and local anti-predatory lending laws. In the past, we have sold a portion of our Liberty Loan production to third parties on a whole-loan, servicing-released basis. Compliance with some of these restrictions requires lenders to make subjective judgments, such as whether a loan will provide a “net tangible benefit” to the borrower. These restrictions expose a lender to risks of litigation and regulatory sanction no matter how carefully a loan is underwritten. The remedies for violations of these laws are not based on actual harm to the consumer and can result in damages that exceed the loan balance. In addition, an increasing number of these laws, rules and regulations seek to impose liability for violations on assignees, which may include our prior warehouse lenders and whole-loan buyers, regardless of whether the assignee knew of or participated in the violation. 31 Table of Contents RESPA prohibits the payment of fees for the mere referral of real estate settlement service business. This law does permit the payment of reasonable value for services actually performed and facilities actually provided unrelated to the referral. In the past, several lawsuits have been filed against mortgage lenders alleging that such lenders have made certain payments to independent mortgage brokers in violation of RESPA. These lawsuits generally have been filed on behalf of a purported nationwide class of borrowers alleging that payments made by a lender to a broker in addition to payments made by the borrower to a broker are prohibited by RESPA and are therefore illegal. On September 18, 2002, the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals issued a decision in Heimmermann v. First Union Mortgage Corp., which reversed the court’s earlier decision in Culpepper v. Irwin Mortgage Corp. in which the court found the yield spread premium payments received by a mortgage broker to be unlawful per se under RESPA. The Department of Housing and Urban Development responded to the Culpepper decision by issuing a policy statement (2001-1) taking the position that lender payments to mortgage brokers, including yield spread premiums, are not per se illegal. The Heimmermann decision eliminated a conflict that had arisen between the Eleventh Circuit and the Eighth and Ninth Circuit Courts of Appeals, with the result that all federal circuit courts that have considered the issue have aligned with the Department of Housing and Urban Development policy statement and found that yield spread premiums are not prohibited per se. If other circuit courts that have not yet reviewed this issue disagree with the Heimmermann decision, there could be a substantial increase in litigation regarding lender payments to brokers and in the potential costs of defending these types of claims and in paying any judgments that might result. A new RESPA rule effective on January 1, 2010 includes the yield spread premium in the calculation of the mortgage broker’s total compensation and require more detailed closing costs disclosures to be provided to consumers at the time of loan origination. The new RESPA rule might usher in a new wave of litigation when mortgage lenders and brokers are subject to new compliance parameters. In 2008, Congress enacted the Mortgage Disclosure Improvement Act of 2008 (“MDIA”), which was initially part of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 and then subsequently amended as part of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. As of July 30, 2009, the MDIA requires creditors to furnish early Truth in Lending (“TIL”) disclosures for all closed-end mortgage transactions that are secured by a consumer’s dwelling, including loans secured by primary, secondary or vacation homes, and regardless of whether the loans are for purchase money or non-purchase money transactions. While the early TIL disclosure must still be given within three business days of application, the MDIA and MDIA rule now require that the early TIL disclosure be provided at least seven business days prior to consummation of the transaction. Further, if the disclosed annual percentage rate (“APR”) exceeds certain tolerances as set forth in the Truth in Lending Act and Regulation Z, the creditor must provide corrected disclosures disclosing an accurate APR and all changed terms no later than 3 business days before consummation. Significantly, this means that multiple early TIL disclosures may be required. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board adopted a final rule to amend Regulation Z on July 14, 2008 (the “July Rule”). Notably, the July Rule, which took effect on October 1, 2009: (i) created a new category of loans called “higher-priced mortgage loans”; (ii) instituted new protections for both this new category of “higher-priced mortgage loans” as well as for the existing category of “high cost mortgages” under the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act; (iii) enacted certain prohibited acts and practices for all closed-end credit transactions secured by a consumer’s principal dwelling; (iv) revised the disclosures required in advertisements for credit secured by a consumer’s dwelling and prohibited certain practices in connection with closed-end mortgage advertising; and (v) required disclosures for closed-end mortgages secured by a consumer’s principal dwelling to be provided earlier in the transaction and before consumers pay any fee except for a fee for obtaining a consumer’s credit history. 32 Table of Contents Home Affordable Modification Program On September 11, 2009, FCMC voluntarily entered into an agreement to actively participate as a mortgage servicer in the Federal government’s Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) for first lien mortgage loans that are not owned or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. HAMP is a program, with borrower, mortgage servicer, and mortgage loan owner incentives, designed to enable eligible borrowers to avoid foreclosure through a more affordable and sustainable loan modification made in accordance with HAMP guidelines, procedures, directives, and requirements. Effective April 5, 2010, HAMP will be expanded to include eligibility criteria and financial incentives for foreclosure alternatives such as deeds-in-lieu and short sales. Compliance, Quality Control and Quality Assurance We maintain a variety of quality control procedures designed to detect compliance errors. We have a stated anti-predatory loan servicing policy that is communicated to all employees at regular training sessions. We track the results of internal quality assurance reviews and provide reports to the appropriate managers of the Company. Our servicing practices are reviewed regularly in connection with the due diligence performed by third parties that consider outsourcing their loan servicing to us. State regulators also review our practices and loan files and report the results back to us. Privacy Title V of the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (“GLBA”) obligates us to safeguard the information we maintain on our clients’ borrowers and to inform our borrowers of our use of their non-public personal information. In addition to the requirements of GLBA, we are subject to compliance with state privacy laws. Whereas under GLBA, a borrower is required to affirmatively “opt-out” of certain of our information sharing practices, under the privacy laws of California (to a certain extent) and Vermont, the borrower must affirmatively “opt-in” to the same. California passed legislation known as the California Financial Information Privacy Act and the California On-Line Privacy Protection Act. Both pieces of legislation became effective on July 1, 2004, and impose additional notification obligations on us. Regulations have been proposed by several agencies and states that may affect our obligations to safeguard information. If other states or federal agencies adopt additional privacy legislation, our compliance costs could substantially increase. Fair Credit Reporting Act The FCRA allows lenders to share information with affiliates and certain third parties and to provide pre-approved offers of credit to consumers in certain instances. However, the FCRA places certain restrictions on the use of information shared between affiliates and with third parties, and Congress recently amended the Statute to, among other things, to provide new disclosures to consumers when risk based pricing is used in the credit decision, and to help protect consumers from identity theft. All of these provisions impose additional regulatory and compliance costs on us. As discussed above under the heading “New Areas of Regulation,” there has been significant class action activity relating to prescreened offers of credit, which is a tool we used for finding potential borrowers, when we were originating loans. Many other mortgage lenders used prescreened credit offers to obtain new borrowers. We have not been named as a defendant in such a class action. However, if we were to be named in a class action alleging a violation of the Fair Credit Reporting Act’s prescreened offer provisions, and the court were to find that the violation was willful, we could face substantial liability that could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operations. 33 Table of Contents Home Mortgage Disclosure Act In 2002, the Federal Reserve Board adopted changes to Regulation C promulgated under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (“HMDA”). Among other things, the new regulation requires lenders to report pricing data on loans that they originate with annual percentage rates that exceed the yield on treasury bills with comparable maturities by three percent. The expanded reporting took effect in 2004 for reports filed in 2005. A majority of our loans we originated in 2004 and thereafter were subject to the expanded reporting requirements. The expanded reporting does not include additional loan information such as credit risk, debt-to-income ratio, LTV ratio, documentation level or other salient loan features that might impact pricing on individual loans. As a result, the reported information may lead to increased litigation and government scrutiny to determine if any reported disparities between prices paid by minorities and majorities may have resulted from unlawful discrimination. For example, the Civil Rights Division of the New York State Attorney General’s office requested that certain large lenders provide it with supplementary information to explain the disparities in their reported HMDA data. SAFE Act The Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 (the “SAFE Act”) was enacted as part of the federal Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008. The SAFE Act is a model act that required states to implement licensing requirements for all individual mortgage loan originators (i.e., mortgage brokers, loan officers, etc.) and set minimum requirements for such individual employees, including testing and continuing education requirements. The SAFE Act directed each state to enact legislation requiring licensing; otherwise, the SAFE Act directed the Department of Housing & Urban Development to provide a default licensing system. As of the date of this memorandum, every state except Minnesota has passed its own version of the SAFE Act. The implications of the SAFE Act on individual loan officers and brokers employed by lenders are clear: these individuals must now be licensed in states in connection with their origination and brokering activity. However, there has been confusion in the industry about the potential application of the state SAFE Acts to individuals, who are either employed by a servicer or working as their agent or on their behalf, in connection with executing loan modifications. The SAFE Act, as implemented on the state level, impacts a wide range of individuals, including those engaged in certain loss mitigation activities, because of the manner in which it defines a “mortgage loan originator.” The majority of states define “mortgage loan originator” as someone “who, for compensation or gain, or in the expectation of compensation or gain, either: (1) takes a residential mortgage loan application; or, (2) offers or negotiates terms of a residential mortgage loan.” The Department of Housing and Urban Development, issued proposed rules under the SAFE Act on December 15, 2009, subject to a public comment period which ended on March 5, 2010. In those rules, the Department of Housing and Urban Development takes the informal position that individuals who perform loan modifications for servicers meet the definition of “mortgage loan originator” for purposes of the state versions of the SAFE Act. At this time, several states have also adopted this informal position, pending the publication of final rules from the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Other states have moved to specifically exempt those individuals working for servicers from the definition of “mortgage loan originator.” As a result, individuals who engage in loan modification activities for servicers may potentially fall within this definition and be required to hold individual licenses within a particular state. Furthermore, state SAFE Acts impose civil and criminal penalties on both individuals and companies for failure to comply with their requirements. This individual licensing issue is currently in-flux, and subject to change pending a final determination from HUD, and a more thorough review of the licensing policy from state regulators over the coming months. 34 Table of Contents Telephone Consumer Protection Act and Telemarketing Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act The Federal Communications Commission and the Federal Trade Commission adopted “do-not-call” registry requirements, which, in part, mandate that companies such as us maintain and regularly update lists of consumers who have chosen not to be called for marketing purposes. These requirements also mandate that we do not call consumers who have chosen to be on the list. Those prohibitions do not apply to calls made to a servicer’s existing customers. Several states have also adopted similar laws, with which we also seek to comply. The Telephone Consumer Protection Act, which in part regulates the use or auto-dialers, prohibits making any call, absent an emergency purpose or prior express consent of the called party, using any automatic telephone dialing system or an artificial or prerecorded voice to call any telephone number assigned to a cellular telephone service. The Federal Communications Commission, which has adopted rules implementing the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, clarified in 2008 that autodialed and prerecorded message calls to wireless numbers that are provided by the called party to a creditor in connection with an existing debt are permissible as calls made with the prior express consent of the called party. On January 20, 2010, the Federal Communications Commission proposed a rule that would require such written consent to be in writing, with detailed conditions to be satisfied, including that the written consent not be obtained as a condition of purchasing any goods, before a person or entity shall be deemed to have obtained the prior express written consent of the called party. If adopted, this rule will impose additional burdens on us with respect to the use of an auto-dialer to contact borrowers. Environmental Matters In the ordinary course of our business, prior to November 2007, we had from time to time acquired properties securing loans that were in default. In addition, loans that we purchased in the past that were initially not in default may subsequently be defaulted on by the borrower. In either case, it is possible that hazardous substances or waste, contamination, pollutants or sources thereof could be discovered on those properties after we acquire them. To date, we have not incurred any environmental liabilities in connection with our OREO, although there can be no guarantee that we will not incur any such liabilities in the future. Employees We recruit, hire, and retain individuals with the specific skills that complement our corporate growth and business strategies. As of December 31, 2009, we had 154 full-time employees. None of our employees are represented by a union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe our relations with our employees, under the Company’s current circumstances, are good. However, under the Company’s current circumstances, retaining key employees and hiring for certain critical positions is more challenging. 35 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business A prolonged economic slowdown or a lengthy or severe recession could harm our operations, particularly if it results in a decline in the real estate market. The risks associated with our business are more acute during periods of economic slowdown or recession because these periods may be accompanied by decreased real estate values, loss of jobs as well as an increased rate of delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures. In particular, any material decline in real estate values would increase the loan-to-value ratios on loans that we hold or service for third parties and, therefore, weaken any collateral coverage, increase the likelihood of a borrower with little or no equity in his or her home defaulting and increase the possibility of a loss or reduced servicing and collection revenues if a borrower defaults. If the current economic recession continues to worsen, our business could experience even greater losses and reduced servicing and collection revenues. The Company may not be able to continue as a going concern. The consolidated Franklin Holding’s has been and continues to be operating in an extraordinary and difficult economic environment, and has been significantly and negatively impacted by the unprecedented credit and economic market turmoil of the past two plus years and the more recent recessionary economy of 2009. The consolidated Franklin Holding’s financial condition raises substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. Our credit facilities and servicing agreement with the Bank require us to observe certain covenants, and our failure to satisfy such covenants could render us insolvent. Our credit facilities with the Bank require us to comply with affirmative and negative covenants customary for restricted indebtedness, including covenants requiring that: we will not enter into mergers, consolidations or sales of any substantial portion of our assets; FCMC will maintain net income before taxes of at least $800,000 as of the end of each calendar month for the most recently ended twelve (12) consecutive month period ending on such date; and that FCMC, as of the end of each month, will maintain a net worth of at least $7.6 million. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Borrowings.” Subject to notice and cure period requirements of our credit facilities and Servicing Agreement, any unwaived and uncured default under the Licensing Credit Agreement would result in a cross-default under the Servicing Agreement; and any unwaived and uncured default under the Servicing Agreement would result in a cross-default under the Licensing Credit Agreement and Legacy Credit Agreement. Any such defaults could result in acceleration of the amounts owed to the Bank (with Franklin Holding and FCMC not obligated on the amounts owed under the Legacy Credit Agreement unless there has been an exception to non-recourse), a foreclosure on the assets of the Company pledged to the Bank, including on Franklin Holding’s pledge of 70% of the common stock of FCMC and the termination of the Servicing Agreement with the Bank. Such acceleration or foreclosure would render us insolvent. As of December 31, 2009, the Company was not in default of its credit facilities or Servicing Agreement with the Bank. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Borrowings.” 36 Table of Contents Based on our current rate of collections on the assets we transferred to the Trust under the Restructuring Agreement, without a significant special transaction, we may not be able to achieve the minimum amount of net remittances necessary to reduce the pledge of FCMC stock to the Bank from 70% to a minimum of 20% or at all. The Restructuring provided for the release of thirty percent of the equity in FCMC, ten percent of which has been transferred to the Company’s principal stockholder, Thomas J. Axon, from the Company’s pledges to the Bank under the Legacy Credit Agreement. If the Bank receives certain minimum amounts of net remittances on the portfolio of assets transferred to the Trust, the Legacy Credit Agreement provides for the possibility of a release of up to an additional fifty percent (of which a maximum of an additional ten percent would go to Thomas J. Axon). However, it is not anticipated that we will meet the first minimum target of $225 million by March 31, 2010, and there is no assurance that the Company will meet any of the remaining minimum targets. If we do not achieve any of the minimum targets, the pledge of FCMC stock to the Bank will not be reduced. In addition, without an extension, renewal, modification, or amendment by the Bank of the Legacy Credit Agreement, if we are unable to repay to the Bank the remaining principal and interest due on the Legacy Credit Agreement by March 31, 2012, which is expected based on the current rate of collections, the Bank would have all available rights and remedies under the Legacy Credit Agreement, including a foreclosure on the stock of FCMC pledged to the Bank, which could have a material impact on our business and operations and render us insolvent. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — March 2009 Restructuring.” If our lenders fail to renew our loans under the Licensing Credit Agreement for additional terms or provide us with refinancing opportunities, our indebtedness under the $2 million revolving line will become due and payable in 2011; and, the draw line for working capital needs of FCMC will expire on May 31, 2010. The principal sum owed to Huntington under the revolving line of the Licensing Credit Agreement, as amended, which totaled approximately $1 million as of December 31, 2009, is due on March 31, 2011. The Licensing Credit Agreement does not include a commitment to refinance this outstanding balance or renew the $2 million revolving loan commitment, or the letter of credit commitment of up to $6,500,000, which supports various servicer licenses, and there is no assurance that Huntington will renew the loan, credit lines or letters of credit at that time. Under the Licensing Credit Agreement, the termination date is May 31, 2010 for the draw line commitment (for working capital needs of FCMC) and March 31, 2011 for the revolving loan and letter of credit commitments (for meeting licensing requirements and, with respect to the revolving loan only, to pay approved expenses of Franklin Holding). Refusal to provide us with renewals or a refinancing opportunity would cause our indebtedness under the Licensing Credit Agreement to become immediately due and payable upon the contractual maturity of such indebtedness and may result in the loss of certain servicing licenses, which could result in defaults under the Servicing and Legacy Credit Agreements and our insolvency (and a foreclosure by the Bank on all of the assets pledged under the Restructuring Agreements, including on Franklin Holding’s pledge of 70% of the stock of FCMC) if we are unable to repay the debt or obtain credit lines or letters of credit with another lending institution. Without the continued cooperation and assistance from the Bank, the consolidated Franklin Holding’s ability to continue as a viable business is in doubt, and it may not be able to continue as a going concern. If our lenders fail to renew our loans under the Legacy Credit Agreement for additional terms or provide us with refinancing opportunities, our legacy indebtedness will become due and payable in 2012. The principal sum owed to Huntington under the Legacy Credit Agreement, which totals approximately $1.37 billion as of December 31, 2009, is due on March 31, 2012. The Legacy Credit Agreement does not include a commitment to refinance this outstanding balance. Although the Bank’s recourse in respect of the Legacy Credit Agreement is limited with respect to FCMC and Franklin Holding, without an extension, renewal, modification, or amendment by the Bank of the Legacy Credit Agreement, if the subsidiaries of Franklin Holding (other than FCMC), which are obligated under the Legacy Credit Agreement, are unable to repay to the Bank the remaining principal and interest due by March 31, 2012, which is expected, the Bank would have all available rights and remedies, including a foreclosure on the stock of FCMC pledged to the Bank, which could have a material impact on our business and operations and render us insolvent. 37 Table of Contents If our lenders fail to extend the Forbearance Agreement covering the Unrestructured Debt, the Unrestructured Debt will become due and payable and the Bank would be able to foreclose on the portion of the stock of FCMC pledged to it. The Restructuring did not include a portion of the Company’s debt (the “Unrestructured Debt”), which as of December 31, 2009 totaled approximately $39.5 million. The Unrestructured Debt remains subject to the original terms of the Forbearance Agreement entered into with the Bank in December 2007 and subsequent amendments thereto and the Franklin 2004 master credit agreement. On April 20, August 10, November 13, 2009, and March 26, 2010 the Bank extended the term of forbearance period until June 30, 2010. A refusal by the Bank to continue to or further extend the Forbearance Agreement would cause the Unrestructured Debt to become immediately due and payable, which could result in our insolvency if we are unable to repay the debt. Moreover, the Bank could provide a notice of an event of default under the Legacy Credit Agreement, which would entitle the Bank to exercise its rights with respect to the collateral pledged under the Legacy Credit Agreement, including the stock of FCMC pledged to the Bank, which if exercised could have a material impact on our business and operations. The Bank may transfer our rights as servicer to the assets we transferred to the Trust under the Restructuring Agreement to a third party. Under the terms of the Restructuring Agreements with the Bank, the Bank has the right to replace us as servicer for any reason and to sell, on a servicing released basis without an assignment of the Servicing Agreement, the assets we transferred to the Trust (subject to a termination fee if servicing is terminated by the Bank prior to March 31, 2010, for any reason other than a default under the Servicing Agreement). If the Bank terminated us as servicer of the assets transferred to the Trust under the Restructuring Agreements, which would represent a loss of substantially all of our servicing revenue, our operations and financial condition would be adversely affected, which could result in our insolvency, including the insolvency of FCMC. Our ability to fund operating expenses depends on the cash flow received from servicing loans for third parties. We are required to submit all payments we receive from our preferred stock investment, the trust certificates that we own and the notes receivable held for sale to a lockbox, which is controlled by the Bank. Substantially all amounts submitted to the lockbox are used to pay down amounts outstanding under our Legacy Credit Agreement with the Bank and are not available to fund operating expenses. Moreover, the line of credit available for FCMC working capital needs under the Licensing Credit Agreement is limited to $4.0 million, which expires May 31, 2010. If the cash flow received from servicing loans and performing due diligence services for third parties is insufficient to sustain the cost of operating FCMC’s business, and we have fully utilized our licensing credit facilities, there is no guarantee that we can continue in business. Our business is sensitive to, and can be materially affected by, changes in interest rates. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates, particularly changes that are unexpected in timing or size. The following are some of the risks we face related to an increase in interest rates: • The majority of our borrowings bear interest at variable rates and we are only partially hedged through interest rate swaps and caps, while a significant majority of our investments bear fixed rates. As a result, an increase in interest rates is likely to result in an increase in our interest expense without an offsetting increase in interest income, which would adversely affect our profitability. • An increase in interest rates may lead to an increase in borrower defaults, if borrowers have difficulties making their adjustable-rate mortgage payments, and a corresponding increase in nonperforming assets, which could decrease our servicing and collection revenues and our cash flows, increase our loan servicing costs, and adversely affect our profitability. 38 Table of Contents We are also subject to risks from decreasing interest rates. For example, a significant decrease in interest rates could increase the rate at which the loans that we service are prepaid and reduce our servicing and collection income in subsequent periods. The Bank may prevent our pursuing future business opportunities. The Company has been, since the latter part of 2007, expressly prohibited by the Bank from acquiring or originating loans. In addition, the Servicing Agreement with the Bank provides that FCMC shall not (i) enter into any other servicing agreements, (ii) otherwise agree to service any assets other than the mortgage loans and real estate owned properties serviced under the Servicing Agreement; or (iii) provide any other business services, which could be deemed reasonably likely to impair the ability of FCMC to perform its obligations under the Servicing Agreement, without the prior written consent of the Bank, which shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Licensing Credit Agreement requires the Company to limit its activities to designated activities dealing with the collateral pledged under the Licensing Credit Agreement and, with the prior written consent of the Bank, property or assets similar to the collateral, which are to be pledged to the secured parties under the Licensing Credit Agreement; and includes restrictive covenants on liens, indebtedness, transactions with affiliates, and investments. Any of these restrictions could effectively preclude our pursuing future business opportunities. We may not be successful in entering into or implementing our planned business of providing servicing and other mortgage related services for other entities on a fee-paying basis. The servicing and mortgage related services industries are highly competitive. The Company has not historically provided such services to unrelated third parties. Additionally, the absence of a rating by a statistical rating agency as a primary or special servicer of residential mortgage loans may make it difficult to compete or effectively market the Company’s ability to adequately service mortgage loans to entities that rely on such ratings as a factor in the selection of a servicer for their loans. If we do not succeed in entering the business of providing such services to third parties, or prove unable to provide such services on a profitable basis, such a failure could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. If we do not obtain and maintain the appropriate state licenses, we will not be allowed to service mortgage loans in some states, which would adversely affect our operations. The requirements imposed by state mortgage finance licensing laws vary considerably. In addition to the requirement for a license to engage in mortgage origination activities, many mortgage licensing laws impose a licensing obligation to service residential mortgage loans. Further, certain state collection agency licensing laws require entities collecting on current, delinquent or defaulted loans for others or to acquire such loans to be licensed as well. Under the SAFE Act, which establishes minimum standards for the licensing and registration of individuals meeting the definition of a mortgage loan originator, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”), which has been delegated the authority to ensure that every state meets the requirements of the SAFE Act, has issued a proposed rule that the SAFE Act’s definition of a loan originator include individuals who for a loan servicer perform a residential mortgage loan modification, which involves offering or negotiating of loan terms that are materially different from the original loan. Although HUD has not yet issued a final rule, certain states are requiring such individuals who perform loan modifications, including those related to loss mitigation, be licensed as a loan originator. 39 Table of Contents Once these licenses are obtained, state regulators impose additional ongoing obligations on licensees, such as maintaining certain minimum net worth or line of credit requirements. In limited instances, the net worth calculation may not include recourse on any contingent liabilities. If the Company’s servicing subsidiary, FCMC, does not, among other things, meet these minimum net worth or line of credit requirements, state regulators may revoke or suspend FCMC’s licenses and prevent FCMC from continuing to service loans in such states, which would adversely affect FCMC’s operations and financial condition and ability to attract new servicing customers. FCMC’s deficit net worth during 2008, prior to the Company’s reorganization in December 2008, resulted in FCMC’s noncompliance with the requirements to maintain certain licenses in a number of states. The regulators in these states could have taken a number of possible corrective actions in response to FCMC’s noncompliance, including license revocation or suspension, requirement for the filing of a corrective action plan, denial of an application for a license renewal or a combination of the same, in which case FCMC’s business would have been adversely affected. In order to address these and other issues, in December 2008, FCMC completed a reorganization of its company structure for the principal purpose of restoring the required minimum net worth under FCMC’s licenses to ensure that FCMC would be able to continue to service mortgage loans. Effective December 19, 2008, Franklin Holding became the parent company of FCMC in the adoption of a holding company form of organizational structure. This reorganization (the “Reorganization”) resulted in FCMC, which holds the Company’s servicing platform, having positive net worth as a result of having assigned and transferred to a newly formed sister company ownership of the entities that held beneficial ownership of the Company’s loan portfolios and the related indebtedness and accordingly, being able to comply with applicable net worth requirements to maintain licenses to service and collect loans in various jurisdictions. In addition, as of and since March 31, 2009, FCMC has maintained net worth in excess of that which is required in those limited states with a more restrictive definition of net worth. However, there is no assurance that regulators will not take corrective action against the Company with respect to the actions it took to remedy deficit net worth through the December 2008 Reorganization and March 2009 Restructuring, in which case FCMC’s business would be adversely affected. Under the Servicing Agreement entered into on March 31, 2009 as part of the Restructuring with Huntington, it would be an event of default if FCMC failed to maintain its license to do business in any jurisdiction where any mortgaged property or other real estate owned (“OREO”) property serviced under the servicing agreement is located and such failure continues unremedied for ten (10) days, which, if the same were to occur, would entitle the Bank to terminate the Servicing Agreement. In addition, with notice in connection with such a default, the Bank could also call an event of default under the Licensing Credit Agreement and the Legacy Credit Agreement entered into in connection with the Restructuring, which, among other remedies, would entitle the Bank to foreclose on the assets of the Company pledged to the Bank, including on Franklin Holding’s pledge of 70% of the common stock of FCMC. A significant amount of the mortgage loans that we originated prior to the Restructuring and transferred to the Trust as part of the Restructuring are secured by property in New York and New Jersey, and our operations could be harmed by economic downturns or other adverse events in these states. A significant portion of Tribeca’s mortgage loan origination activity was concentrated in the northeastern United States, particularly in New York and New Jersey. Of the loans originated by Tribeca prior to the Restructuring and transferred to the Trust as part of the Restructuring, a majority of the aggregate principal was secured by property in these two states. An overall decline in the economy or the residential real estate market, a continuing decline in home prices, or the occurrence of events such as a natural disaster or an act of terrorism in the northeastern United States could decrease the value of residential properties in this region. This could result in an increase in the risk of delinquency, default or foreclosure, which could reduce our servicing and collection revenues, and reduce our profitability. 40 Table of Contents We may not be adequately protected against the risks inherent in servicing subprime residential mortgage loans. The vast majority of the loans we originated prior to the Restructuring, and transferred to the Trust as part of the Restructuring, were underwritten generally in accordance with standards designed for subprime residential mortgages. Mortgage loans underwritten under these underwriting standards are likely to experience rates of delinquency, foreclosure and loss that are higher, and may be substantially higher, than prime residential mortgage loans. A majority of the loans previously originated by Tribeca were made under a “limited documentation” program, which generally placed the most significant emphasis on the loan-to-value ratio based on the appraised value of the property, and not, or to a lesser extent, on a determination of the borrower’s ability to repay the loan. Our past underwriting and loan servicing practices may not afford adequate protection against the higher risks associated with loans made to such borrowers particularly in a poor housing and credit market or an economic recession. If we are unable to mitigate these risks, our ability to service and collect on these loans may be adversely affected resulting in a decrease in our servicing and collection revenues and cash flows, and our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be materially harmed. A number of the second-lien mortgage loans that we service are subordinated to ARM or interest-only mortgages that may be subject to monthly payment increases, which may result in delinquencies and a decrease in servicing and collection revenues. A number of the second-lien mortgage loans that we acquired prior to the Restructuring, and transferred to the Trust as part of the Restructuring, are subordinated to an adjustable rate mortgage held by a third party that was originated in a period of unusually low interest rates or originated with a below market interest rate, or to an interest-only mortgage. A substantial majority of these ARMs bore a fixed rate for the first two or three years of the loan, followed by annual interest and payment rate resets. As a result, holders of ARM loans may face monthly payment increases following their first interest rate adjustment date and when short-term interest rates rise. Similarly, interest-only loans typically require principal payments to be made after the first one or two years from the date of the loan. The decreased availability of refinancing alternatives has impacted the run-off that typically occurs as an ARM nears its first rate reset or the interest-only loans begin to require the payment of principal. Interest rate adjustments or principal becoming payable on first lien mortgages may also have a direct impact on a borrower’s ability to repay any underlying second-lien mortgage loan on a property. As a result, delinquencies on these loans may increase and our ability to service and collect on these loans may be adversely affected resulting in a decrease in our servicing and collection revenues and cash flows. We are subject to losses from the mortgage loans we acquired and originated prior to the Restructuring due to fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, mortgage brokers, sellers of loans we acquired, vendors and our employees. When we acquired and originated mortgage loans, including those mortgage loans transferred to the Trust as part of the Restructuring, we typically relied heavily upon information supplied by third parties, including the information contained in the loan application, property appraisal, title information and, employment and income stated on the loan application. If any of this information was intentionally or negligently misrepresented and such misrepresentation was not detected prior to the acquisition or funding of the loan, the value of the loan may end up being significantly lower than expected. Whether a misrepresentation was made by the loan applicant, the mortgage broker, another third party or one of our employees, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation except when we purchased loans pursuant to contracts that include a right of return and the seller remains sufficiently creditworthy to render such right meaningful. 41 Table of Contents Legal proceedings could be brought which could adversely affect our financial results. Various companies in the servicing industry have been named as defendants in individual and class action law suits challenging their residential loan servicing practices. At least some of those participants have paid significant sums to settle lawsuits brought against it in respect of such practices. There can be no assurance that similar suits will not be brought against us in the future, and that we will not be subject to resulting costs, damages or penalties that could adversely affect our financial results. Given the nature of the industry in which we operate, our businesses is, and in the future may become, involved in various legal proceedings the ultimate resolution of which is inherently unpredictable and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Due, in part, to the heavily regulated nature of the industries in which we operate, we are, and in the future may become, involved in various legal proceedings. We may nevertheless incur legal costs and expenses in connection with the defense of such proceeding. In addition, the actual cost of resolving our pending and any future legal proceedings may be substantially higher than any amounts reserved for such matters. Depending on the remedy sought and the outcome of such proceedings, the ultimate resolution of our pending and any future legal proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We are exposed to counter-party risk and there can be no assurances that we will manage or mitigate this risk effectively. We are exposed to counterparty risk in the event of non-performance by counterparties to various agreements and sales transactions. The insolvency, unwillingness or inability of a significant counterparty to perform its obligations under an agreement or transaction, including, without limitation, as a result of the rejection of an agreement or transaction by a counterparty in bankruptcy proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. There can be no assurances that we will be effective in managing or mitigating our counterparty risk, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The success and growth of our servicing business will depend on our ability to adapt to and implement technological changes, and any failure to do so could result in a material adverse effect on our business. Our mortgage loan servicing business is dependent upon our ability to effectively adapt to technological advances, such as the ability to automate loan servicing, process borrower payments and provide customer information over the Internet, accept electronic signatures and provide instant status updates. The intense competition in our industry has led to rapid technological developments, evolving industry standards and frequent releases of new products and enhancements. The failure to acquire new technologies or technological solutions when necessary could limit our ability to remain competitive in our industry and our ability to increase the cost-efficiencies of our servicing operation, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Alternatively, adapting to technological changes in the industry to remain competitive may require us to make significant and costly changes to our loan servicing and information systems, which could in turn increase operating costs. If we do not manage the changes in our businesses effectively, our financial performance could be harmed. As we seek to engage in new businesses, our future growth could require capital resources beyond what we currently possess, which would place certain pressures on our infrastructure. Our future profitability will similarly depend on the proper management of our wind-down of the businesses we no longer operate. We will need to continue to upgrade and expand our financial, operational and managerial systems and controls, particularly our servicing systems and resources. If we do not manage the changes in our business effectively, our expenses could increase, our loan delinquencies and defaults could continue to accelerate and our business, liquidity and financial condition could be further significantly harmed. 42 Table of Contents The inability to attract and retain qualified employees could significantly harm our business. We continually need to attract, hire and successfully integrate additional qualified personnel in an intensely competitive hiring environment in order to manage and operate our business. The market for skilled management, professional and loan servicing personnel is highly competitive. Competition for qualified personnel may lead to increased hiring and retention costs. If we are unable to attract, successfully integrate and retain a sufficient number of skilled personnel at manageable costs, we will be unable to continue to service mortgage loans, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to our operating losses and financial condition, on a consolidated basis, retaining key employees and hiring for certain critical positions for our servicing and collection business can become more challenging. An interruption in or breach of our information systems may result in lost business and increased expenses. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of or damage to our information systems or the third-party information systems on which we rely could cause us to be noncompliant with our servicing and collection contracts and significant federal and state regulations relating to the handling of customer information, particularly with respect to maintaining the confidentiality of such information. A failure, interruption or breach of our information systems could result in the loss of our servicing and collection contracts, regulatory action and litigation against us. We cannot assure that such failures or interruptions will not occur or if they do occur that they will be adequately addressed by us or the third parties on which we rely. We are exposed to the risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. We have historically foreclosed on defaulted mortgage loans in our portfolio, taking title to the properties underlying those mortgages. By taking title, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to such properties and any properties that we have to reacquire from the Trust pursuant to the Transfer and Assignment Agreement of the Restructuring. Hazardous substances or wastes, contaminants, pollutants or sources thereof may be discovered on these properties during our ownership or after a sale to a third party. Environmental defects can reduce the value of and make it more difficult to sell such properties, and we may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation, and cleanup costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. These costs could be substantial. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. Although we have not to date incurred any environmental liabilities in connection with our real estate owned, there can be no assurance that we will not incur any such liabilities in the future. A loss of our Chairman and President may adversely affect our operations. Thomas J. Axon, our Chairman and President, is responsible for making substantially all of the most significant policy and managerial decisions in our business operations. These decisions are paramount to the success and future growth of our business. Mr. Axon is also instrumental in maintaining our relationship with Huntington and our operations under the terms of the Restructuring Agreements. A loss of the services of Mr. Axon could disrupt and adversely affect our operations. 43 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Financial Statements Our financial condition and financial results can be materially affected by Federal Reserves Board policies and the capital markets. The Restructuring included the transfer of substantially all of the Company’s portfolios of subprime mortgage loans and owned real estate to a trust. As of December 31, 2009, the Company carried all of its subprime mortgage loans and owned real estate either at fair value or lower of cost or market value on its financial statements, with changes in fair values recorded in earnings as fair valuation adjustments. Increases in market interest rates, continued deteriorating capital market values for subprime mortgage loans (both performing and nonperforming mortgage loans) and real estate, significant increases in market volatility and the continued lack of liquidity in the secondary market for these assets may result in estimated fair values significantly below the fair values carried on our financial statements, which would result in a reduction in reported earnings. We may become subject to liability and incur increased expenditures as a result of the restatement of our financial statements. The restatement of our previously issued financial statements in 2006 could expose us to government investigation or legal action. The defense of any such actions could cause the diversion of management’s attention and resources, and we could be required to pay damages to settle such actions or if any such actions are not resolved in our favor. Even if resolved in our favor, such actions could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. Moreover, we may be the subject of negative publicity focusing on any financial statement inaccuracies and resulting restatement and negative reactions from shareholders, creditors, or others with which we do business. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could harm our business and reputation and cause the price of our securities to decline. We may become subject to liability and incur increased expenditures as a result of our having reassessed our allowance for loan losses and our transfer of substantially all our mortgage portfolio related assets to the Bank. Our reassessments of our allowance for loan losses during 2007 and 2008, and the transfer of substantially all of our loans and properties acquired through foreclosure to the Bank, could expose us to legal action or government investigation. The defense of any such actions could cause the diversion of management’s attention and resources, and we could be required to pay damages to settle such actions or if any such actions are not resolved in our favor. Even if resolved in our favor, such actions could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. Moreover, we may be the subject of negative publicity and negative reactions from shareholders, creditors, existing and potential servicing clients or others with which we do business. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could harm our business. Failures in our internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures could lead to material errors in our financial statements and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. Such controls are designed to provide reasonable, not absolute assurance that we are providing reliable financial reports. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there is only reasonable assurance that our controls will succeed in achieving their goals under all potential future conditions. If such controls fail to operate effectively, this may result in material errors in our financial statements. Deficiencies in our system of internal controls over financial reporting may require remediation, which could be costly. Failure to remediate such deficiencies or to implement required new or improved controls could lead to material errors in our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, and expose us to government investigation or legal action. Any of these results could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. 44 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Industry New legislation and regulations directed at curbing predatory lending practices could restrict our ability to service non-prime residential mortgage loans, which could adversely impact our earnings. The Federal Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act, or HOEPA, identifies a category of residential mortgage loans and subjects such loans to restrictions not applicable to other residential mortgage loans. Loans subject to HOEPA consist of loans on which certain points and fees or the annual percentage rate, which is based on the interest rate and certain finance charges, exceed specified levels. Laws, rules and regulations have been adopted, or are under consideration, at the state and local levels that are similar to HOEPA in that they impose certain restrictions on loans that exceed certain cost parameters. These state and local laws generally have lower thresholds and broader prohibitions than under the federal law. The restrictions include prohibitions on steering borrowers into loans with high interest rates and away from more affordable products, selling unnecessary insurance to borrowers, flipping or repeatedly refinancing loans and originating loans without a reasonable expectation that the borrowers will be able to repay the loans without regard to the value of the mortgaged property. Compliance with some of these restrictions requires lenders to make subjective judgments, such as whether a loan will provide a “net tangible benefit” to the borrower. These restrictions expose a lender to risks of litigation and regulatory sanction no matter how carefully a loan is underwritten and impact the way in which a loan is underwritten. The remedies for violations of these laws are not based on actual harm to the consumer and can result in damages that exceed the loan balance. Liability for violations of HOEPA, as well as violations of many of the state and local equivalents, would extend not only to us, but to assignees, which may include our warehouse lenders and whole-loan buyers, regardless of whether such assignee knew of or participated in the violation. It was our policy not to originate loans that would be subject to HOEPA or similar state and local laws and not to purchase high cost loans that would have violated those laws. If we miscalculated the numerical thresholds described above, however, we may have mistakenly originated or purchased such loans and bear the related marketplace and legal risks and consequences. These thresholds below which we tried to originate loans created artificial barriers to production and limited the price at which we offered loans to borrowers and our ability to underwrite, originate, sell and finance mortgage loans. In a number of states, for example, proposed and recently enacted state and local anti-predatory lending laws and regulations broaden the trigger test for loans subject to restrictions. If the numerical thresholds were miscalculated, certain variations of our Liberty Loan product, where the lending decision may have been based entirely or primarily on the borrower’s equity in his or her home and not, or to a lesser extent, on a determination of the borrower’s ability to repay the loan, would violate HOEPA and many of these state and local anti-predatory lending laws. In the past, we sold a portion of our Liberty Loan production to third parties on a whole-loan, servicing-released basis. We purchased loans that are covered by one of these laws, rules or regulations only if, in our judgment, a loan was made in accordance with our strict legal compliance standards and without undue risk relative to litigation or to the enforcement of the loan according to its terms. Several states and municipalities adopted legislation and ordinances establishing new consumer protections governing loan servicing practices and foreclosure procedures. Some of the provisions will impede or materially delay a holder’s ability to foreclose on certain mortgaged properties. There are proposed laws providing greater protections to consumers, pertaining to such activities as maintenance of escrow funds, timely crediting of payments received, limitation on ancillary income, responding to customer inquiries and requirements to conduct loss mitigation. The Federal Reserve Board approved changes to HOEPA in Regulation Z, which implements the Truth in Lending Act, to protect consumers from unfair or deceptive home mortgage lending and advertising practices. Effective October 1, 2009, the amendments create protections for a new category of loans called “higher-priced mortgage loans.” Under these amendments, companies that service mortgage loans will be required to credit consumers’ loan payments as of the date of receipt. Further, the HOEPA amendments expand the types of loans subject to early disclosures. Previously, transaction-specific early disclosures were only required for purchase money mortgage loans. The early disclosures now are required with all closed-end non-purchase money mortgage loans, such as refinancings, closed-end home equity loans and reverse mortgage loans. 45 Table of Contents We cannot predict whether or in what form Congress or the various state and local legislatures may enact legislation affecting our business. We are evaluating the potential impact of these initiatives, if enacted, on our servicing practices and results of operations. As a result of these and other initiatives, we are unable to predict whether federal, state, or local authorities will require changes in our servicing practices in the future, including reimbursement of fees charged to borrowers, or will impose fines. These changes, if required, could adversely affect our profitability, particularly if we make such changes in response to new or amended laws, regulations or ordinances in states where we service a significant amount of mortgage loans. The broad scope of our operations exposes us to risks of noncompliance with an increasing and inconsistent body of complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels. Because we service and collect on loans and have purchased and originated mortgage loans in all 50 states, we must comply with the laws and regulations pertaining to licensing, disclosure and substantive practices, as well as judicial and administrative decisions, of all of these jurisdictions, as well as an extensive body of federal laws and regulations. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years, and government agencies enforcing these laws, as well as the courts, sometimes interpret the same law in different ways. The laws and regulations of each of these jurisdictions are different, complex and, in some cases, in direct conflict with each other. As our operations grow, it may be more difficult to identify comprehensively and to interpret accurately applicable laws and regulations and to employ properly our policies, procedures and systems and train our personnel effectively with respect to all of these laws and regulations, thereby potentially increasing our exposure to the risks of noncompliance with these laws and regulations. State and local governmental authorities have focused on the lending and servicing practices of companies in the non-prime mortgage lending industry, sometimes seeking to impose sanctions for practices such as charging excessive fees, imposing interest rates higher than warranted by the credit risk of the borrower, imposing prepayment fees, failing to adequately disclose the material terms of loans and abusive servicing and collection practices. Our failure to comply with this regulatory regimen can lead to: • civil and criminal liability, including potential monetary penalties; • loss of servicing and debt collection licenses or approved status required for continued business operations; • demands for indemnification or loan repurchases from purchasers of our loans; • legal defenses causing delay and expense; • adverse effects on our ability, as servicer or debt collector, to enforce loans; 46 Table of Contents • the imposition of supervisory agreements and cease-and-desist orders; • the borrower having the right to rescind or cancel the loan transaction; • adverse publicity; • individual and class action lawsuits; • administrative enforcement actions; • damage to our reputation in the industry; or; • the inability to obtain credit to fund our operations. Although we have systems and procedures directed to compliance with these legal requirements and believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable federal, state and local statutes, rules and regulations, we cannot assure you that more restrictive laws and regulations will not be adopted in the future, or that governmental bodies or courts will not interpret existing laws or regulations in a more restrictive manner, which could render our current business practices non-compliant or which could make compliance more difficult or expensive. These applicable laws and regulations are subject to administrative or judicial interpretation, but some of these laws and regulations have been enacted only recently, or may be interpreted infrequently or only recently and inconsistently. As a result of infrequent, sparse or conflicting interpretations, ambiguities in these laws and regulations may leave uncertainty with respect to permitted or restricted conduct under them. Any ambiguity under a law to which we are subject may lead to regulatory investigations, governmental enforcement actions or private causes of action, such as class action lawsuits, with respect to our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. We may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of our independent brokers. Mortgage brokers that we utilized prior to November of 2007 to source our legacy mortgage originations, have parallel and separate legal obligations to which they are subject. While these laws may not explicitly hold the originating lenders responsible for the legal violations of mortgage brokers, increasingly federal and state agencies have sought to impose such assignee liability. For example, the FTC entered into a settlement agreement with a mortgage lender where the FTC characterized a broker that had placed all of its loan production with a single lender as the “agent” of the lender. The FTC imposed a fine on the lender in part because, as “principal,” the lender was legally responsible for the mortgage broker’s unfair and deceptive acts and practices. In the past, the United States Department of Justice sought to hold a non-prime mortgage lender responsible for the pricing practices of its mortgage brokers, alleging that the mortgage lender was directly responsible for the total fees and charges paid by the borrower under the Fair Housing Act even if the lender neither dictated what the mortgage broker could charge nor kept the money for its own account. Accordingly, we may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of independent mortgage brokers utilized by us in the past. We are subject to reputation risks from negative publicity concerning the subprime mortgage industry. The subprime mortgage industry in which we operate may be subject to periodic negative publicity, which could damage our reputation and adversely impact our earnings. Reputation risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative publicity, is inherent in our industry. There is a perception that the borrowers of subprime loans may be unsophisticated and in need of consumer protection. Accordingly, from time to time, consumer advocate groups or the media may focus attention on our services, thereby subjecting our industry to the possibility of periodic negative publicity. 47 Table of Contents We may also be negatively impacted if another company in the subprime mortgage industry or in a related industry engages in practices resulting in increased public attention to our industry. Negative publicity may also occur as a result of judicial inquiries and regulatory or governmental action with respect to the subprime mortgage industry. Negative publicity may result in increased regulation and legislative scrutiny of industry practices as well as increased litigation or enforcement actions by civil and criminal authorities. Additionally, negative publicity may increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by impeding our ability to attract and retain customers and employees. During the past several years, the press has widely reported certain industry related concerns, including rising delinquencies, the tightening of credit and more recently, increasing litigation. Some of the litigation instituted against subprime lenders is being brought in the form of purported class actions by individuals or by state or federal regulators or state attorneys general. The judicial climate in many states is such that the outcome of these cases is unpredictable. If we are subject to increased litigation due to such negative publicity, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We are subject to significant legal and reputation risks and expenses under federal and state laws concerning privacy, use and security of customer information. The federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley financial reform legislation imposes significant privacy obligations on us in connection with the collection, use and security of financial and other nonpublic information provided of borrowers. In addition, California and Vermont have enacted, and several other states are considering enacting, privacy or customer-information-security legislation with even more stringent requirements than those set forth in the federal law. Because laws and rules concerning the use and protection of customer information are continuing to develop at the federal and state levels, we expect to incur increased costs in our effort to be and remain in full compliance with these requirements. Nevertheless, despite our efforts we will be subject to legal and reputational risks in connection with our collection and use of customer information, and we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to lawsuits or compliance actions under such state or federal privacy requirements. To the extent that a variety of inconsistent state privacy rules or requirements are enacted, our compliance costs could substantially increase. If many of the borrowers of the loans we service become subject to the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act of 2003, our cash flows and service fee income may be adversely affected. Under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act of 2003, or the Civil Relief Act, a borrower who enters active military service after the origination of his or her mortgage loan generally may not be required to pay interest above an annual rate of 6%, and the lender is restricted from exercising certain enforcement remedies, including foreclosure, during the period of the borrower’s active duty status. The Civil Relief Act also applies to a borrower who was on reserve status and is called to active duty after origination of the mortgage loan. The Civil Relief Act was amended on July 30, 2008 by the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 to temporarily enhance protections for servicemembers relating to mortgages and mortgage foreclosures until December 31, 2010, by extending the protection period and stay of proceedings from 90 days to nine months and extending the interest rate limitation on mortgages from the period of military service to the period of military service and one year thereafter. Considering the large number of U.S. Armed Forces personnel on active duty and likely to be on active duty in the future, our cash flows and revenues may be adversely affected by compliance with this law. Legislative action to provide mortgage relief may negatively impact our business. As delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures in and of residential mortgages have increased dramatically, there are several federal, state and local initiatives to restrict our ability to foreclose and resell the property of a customer in default. Any restriction on our ability to foreclose on a loan, any requirement that we forego a portion of the amount otherwise due on a loan or any requirement that we modify any original loan terms is likely to negatively impact our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. These initiatives have come in the form of proposed legislation and regulations, including those pertaining to federal bankruptcy laws, government investigations and calls for voluntary modifications of mortgages. 48 Table of Contents In 2008 and 2009, several states and municipalities adopted legislation and ordinances establishing new consumer protections governing loan servicing practices and foreclosure procedures. Some of the provisions will impede or materially delay a holder’s ability to foreclose on certain mortgaged properties, which could materially increase the cost of foreclosure. There are proposed laws providing greater protections to consumers, pertaining to such activities as maintenance of escrow funds, timely crediting of payments received, limitation on ancillary income, responding to customer inquiries and requirements to conduct loss mitigation. If such proposals are enacted, the cost to service could materially increase. Regardless of whether a specific law is proposed or enacted, there are several federal and state government initiatives, including HAMP under the Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan, that seek to obtain the voluntary agreement of servicers to subscribe to a code of conduct or statement of principles or methodologies when working with borrowers facing foreclosure on their homes. Generally speaking, the principles call for servicers to reach out to borrowers before their loans “reset” with higher monthly payments that might result in a default by a borrower and seek to modify loans prior to the reset. Applicable servicing agreements, federal tax law and accounting standards limit the ability of a servicer to modify a loan before the borrower has defaulted on the loan or the servicer has determined that a default by the borrower is reasonably likely to occur. Servicing agreements generally require the servicer to act in the best interests of the note holders or at least not to take actions that are materially adverse to the interests of the note holders. Compliance with the code or principles must conform to these other contractual, tax and accounting standards. As a result, servicers have to confront competing demands from consumers and those advocating on their behalf to make home retention the overarching priority when dealing with borrowers in default, on the one hand, and the requirements of note holders to maximize returns on the loans, on the other. Risks Related to Our Securities Thomas J. Axon effectively controls our company, substantially reducing the influence of our other stockholders. Thomas J. Axon, our Chairman and President, beneficially owns more than 45% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. Axon will be able to influence significantly the actions that require stockholder approval, including: • the election of our directors; and, • the approval of mergers, sales of assets or other corporate transactions or matters submitted for stockholder approval. Furthermore, the members of the board of directors as a group (including Mr. Axon) beneficially own a substantial majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, our other stockholders may have little or no influence over matters submitted for stockholder approval. In addition, Mr. Axon’s influence and/or that of our current board members could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of us and consequently materially adversely affect the price of our common stock. 49 Table of Contents Our common stock is quoted only on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may adversely impact the price and liquidity of the common stock, and our ability to raise capital. Our common stock is quoted under the stock symbol “FCMC.OB” on the “OTC Bulletin Board,” a centralized quotation service for over-the-counter securities and is subject to the rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 relating to “penny stocks.” These rules require brokers who sell securities that are subject to the rules, and who sell to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors, to complete required documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with information concerning the risks of trading in the security. These requirements could make it more difficult to buy or sell our common stock in the open market. In addition, this could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital, and could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Our organizational documents, Delaware law and our Restructuring Agreements may make it harder for us to be acquired without the consent and cooperation of our board of directors, management and our Bank. Several provisions of our organizational documents, Delaware law, and our Restructuring Agreements may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including a takeover attempt in which the potential purchaser offers to pay a per share price greater than the current market price of our common stock. Our classified board of directors will make it more difficult for a person seeking to obtain control of us to do so. Also, our supermajority voting requirements may discourage or deter a person from attempting to obtain control of us by making it more difficult to amend the provisions of our certificate of incorporation to eliminate an anti-takeover effect or the protections they afford minority stockholders, and will make it more difficult for a stockholder or stockholder group to put pressure on our board of directors to amend our certificate of incorporation to facilitate a takeover attempt. In addition, under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof. The ability to issue shares of preferred stock could tend to discourage takeover or acquisition proposals not supported by our current board of directors. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder (such as the owner of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock) for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. The preceding provisions of our organizational documents, as well as Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change of control and prevent changes in our management, even if such events would be in the best interests of our stockholders. Under the terms of the Restructuring Agreements, we cannot enter into mergers, consolidations, sales of any substantial portion of our assets, or certain material changes to our capital structure. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate and cause our stock price to decline. Because of the nature of our business and our Restructuring Agreements, our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, or we may incur additional operating losses. Our results may fluctuate as a result of any of the following: • the timing and amount of collections on loans that we service; • the rate of delinquency, default, foreclosure and prepayment on the loans we service; • changes in interest rates; • fair valuation adjustments related to changes in the fair value of investments in mortgage loans and real estate held for sale and investments in trust certificates; 50 Table of Contents • our inability to purchase and originate new mortgage loans for portfolio or for sale in the secondary mortgage market; • our inability to successfully enter the new business of servicing loans for third parties; • further declines in the estimated value of real property securing mortgage loans; • increases in operating expenses associated with the changes in our business; • general economic and market conditions; and, • the effects of state and federal tax, monetary and fiscal policies. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and we cannot predict their potential effects on the price of our common stock. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or further significantly decline in the future. Compliance with the rules of the market in which our common stock trades, and proposed and recently enacted changes in securities laws and regulations are likely to increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and the national securities exchanges have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices for public companies, including ourselves. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 