ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business The Company may not be able to continue as a going concern. The consolidated Franklin Holding since September 30, 2007 has been and continues to be operating with significant operating losses and stockholders’ deficit, and the Company will not be able to pay off the outstanding balance of debt due to the Bank. The consolidated Franklin Holding financial condition raises substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. The Plan of Reorganization for the planned pre-packaged bankruptcy filing of Franklin Credit Holding Corporation (FCHC) may not be consented to by the Bank, confirmed or confirmation may be delayed. Although FCHC anticipates obtaining the consent of the only eligible voting creditor, the Bank, to the filing of the Plan of Reorganization, pursuant to an agreement with the Bank as part of the September 2010 Transaction, there can be no assurance that the Bank will consent to or the Bankruptcy Court will confirm the Plan of Reorganization. The Bankruptcy Court could uphold one or more objections to the Plan of Reorganization, including an objection by the Internal Revenue Service, or may decline to confirm the Plan of Reorganization if it found that any of the requirements for confirmation had not been met, including that the terms of the Plan of Reorganization do not “unfairly discriminate” and are “fair and equitable,” that confirmation is not likely to be followed by a liquidation (other than the liquidation of FCHC which will be contemplated by the Plan) or a need for further reorganization, and that the consideration to be received by each creditor and shareholder is not less that that which would be received if the Company were liquidated under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. In the event that the Bankruptcy Court does not confirm the Plan of Reorganization, FCHC may seek to modify the Plan of Reorganization, may seek to accomplish an alternative Chapter 11 plan of reorganization, may elect to convert the Chapter 11 case to a Chapter 7 liquidation or seek to dismiss its bankruptcy petition. There can be no assurance that any alternative Chapter 11 plan would be as favorable to creditors and stockholders of the Company as those proposed in the Plan of Reorganization. Conversion to a Chapter 7 liquidation could, in the view of the Company, potentially produce a less favorable and uncertain outcome for creditors and stockholders of the Company than would the Plan of Reorganization. There also can be no assurance that we will not lose control over the outcome of the reorganization or liquidation process or management of the operation of the business should the Bankruptcy Court appoint a case trustee or examiner, which could result in a liquidation of the Company and our shareholders losing all or a substantial part of their interest in FCMC as FCHC stockholders. Certain adverse tax consequences could result from the spinoff of FCMC from FCHC. Under the March 2009 Restructuring, the Company, at the request of the Bank, elected under Section 362(e) of the Internal Revenue Code to transfer the tax basis in mortgage loans to the Bank, in the amount of approximately $1.1 billion, in exchange for assets in the Bank’s REIT, which qualifies under Section 351 of the Internal Revenue Code. A liquidation of the Company could trigger a taxable gain with insufficient offsetting net operating losses or assets to pay the resulting tax liability. There can be no assurance that the Plan of Reorganization or issuance of a note payable to FCHC, for the benefit of the Internal Revenue Service, in consideration for the spinoff of its interest in FCMC to its shareholders in lieu of a liquidation of the Company will be acceptable to the Internal Revenue Service. In the event that the Plan of Reorganization is not acceptable or otherwise not confirmable by the Bankruptcy Court, the Company may have to amend, seek to dismiss or withdraw the petition or file a conversion to a Chapter 7 liquidation case. 31 The Reorganization Plan may not be consummated. Even if the Plan of Reorganization, which we presently anticipate filing either simultaneously with or shortly after the commencement of a bankruptcy case, is confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, consummation of the Plan of Reorganization would be subject to the satisfaction of various requirements of our state mortgage regulators and/or other conditions set forth in the Plan of Reorganization. Despite the benefits of a free standing FCMC, and with no other change other than indirect shareholders becoming direct shareholders of FCMC, there can be no assurance that the regulators or the Bankruptcy Court, singularly or collectively, will approve of the spinoff of FCMC from FCHC, require the filing of a plan to meet certain objectives set by a particular regulator or deny an application for or renewal of a license in its administrative discretion to the extent permitted. Any such regulatory action may adversely affect FCMC’s business. Historical financial information may not be comparable. Following confirmation of a Plan of Reorganization and the transactions contemplated thereby, our financial position and results of operations from and after the effective date of the Plan of Reorganization may not be comparable to the financial position or results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements. Our Restructuring Agreements with the Bank require us to observe certain covenants, and our failure to satisfy such covenants could render us insolvent. Our Restructuring Agreements with the Bank require us to comply with affirmative and negative covenants customary for restructured indebtedness. Any defaults with respect to these agreements could result in acceleration of the amounts owed to the Bank (with FCMC and FCHC not obligated on the amounts owed under the Legacy Credit Agreement) and a foreclosure on the assets of the Company pledged to the Bank (which no longer include equity interests in or other assets of FCMC, except for $7.5 million in cash held by FCMC and pledged to the Bank). Such acceleration or foreclosure would render us insolvent. As of December 31, 2011, the Company was not in default of its Restructuring Agreements. Due to the expiration of the Forbearance Agreement covering the Unrestructured Debt on September 30, 2011, the Unrestructured Debt is due and payable. The Unrestructured Debt became due and payable on September 30, 2011. The March 2009 Restructuring did not include a portion of the Company’s debt (the Unrestructured Debt), which as of December 31, 2011 totaled approximately $38.2 million. The Unrestructured Debt, which was due and payable as of September 30, 2011 under the Company’s 2004 master credit agreement with the Bank, was subject to a forbearance agreement with the Bank which expired on September 30, 2011. Although the Unrestructured Debt is due and payable to the Bank for its lending participants, which include a related party entity (Bosco III) that has a fifty percent beneficial ownership in the commercial loans governing the Unrestructured Debt, the Bank has not exercised any of its available rights or remedies, including collection efforts and the right to call an event of default under the Legacy Credit Agreement. Should the Bank exercise any of its available rights or remedies, such action could result in the Company’s insolvency. FCMC is not obligated to the Bank with respect to the Unrestructured Debt and any references to FCMC in the Company’s 2004 master credit agreement governing the Unrestructured Debt were amended to refer to Franklin Credit Asset Corporation. 32 The Bank, with notice, has the right to call an event of default under the Legacy Credit Agreement, but not the Licensing Credit Agreement, which does not include cross-default provisions that would be triggered by such an event of default under the Legacy Credit Agreement. The Bank’s recourse in respect of the Legacy Credit Agreement is limited to the assets and stock of FCHC’s subsidiaries, excluding the assets and stock of FCMC (except for a second-priority lien of the Bank on $7.5 million of cash collateral held as security under the Licensing Credit Agreement). Our borrowings are sensitive to changes in interest rates. On January 25, 2011, the Bank declared an early termination of all remaining interest rate swaps due to a failure by the Company to make payments due under the swap agreements. The Company’s failure to make these payments was occasioned by insufficient funds available under the Legacy Credit Agreement as a direct result of the loss of cash flows attributable to the July and September loan sales (the Loan Sales) and the December 2010 loan sale (the December Loan Sale) by the Bank’s Trust and the suspension of dividends on the REIT Securities for the third and fourth quarters of 2010. Due to the termination by the Bank of the Company’s remaining interest rate swaps in January 2011, all of our interest rate sensitive borrowings are unhedged and the Company’s interest-bearing liabilities will continue to increase, and any increase in interest rates will result in an increase in interest expense without an offsetting increase in income, which would adversely affect our results. We will not be able to reduce the Legacy Debt. We have limited sources of cash flow available to pay interest on our Legacy Debt. As a result of the Company voluntarily surrendering and transferring to the Bank the REIT Securities on May 23, 2011 in return for a reduction in the indebtedness to the Bank equal to $478 million, the principal source of cash flow to meet our obligations with respect to the approximately $808.8 million in outstanding indebtedness to the Bank remaining as of December 31, 2011 (after the surrender of the REIT Securities) was eliminated, resulting in accrued and unpaid interest being added to the outstanding principal balance of the Legacy Debt that the Company will be unable to pay at maturity on March 31, 2012 (or upon earlier termination under the provisions of the Legacy Credit Agreement). Due to the surrender and transfer to the Bank of the REIT Securities, our operating losses will increase. As a result of the Company entering into the implementing agreements with the Bank in May 2011 for the voluntarily surrender and transfer to the Bank the REIT Securities in return for a reduction in the indebtedness to the Bank equal to $478 million, the Company’s operating losses likely will increase due to the absence of dividend income on the preferred REIT securities. If our lender fails to renew our available credit under the Licensing Credit Agreement for additional terms, our revolving line of credit and letter of credit facilities will expire on September 30, 2012. The revolving line of credit and letter of credit facilities under the Licensing Credit Agreement, as amended, expires (if not earlier terminated under the provisions of the Licensing Credit Agreement) on September 30, 2012. The Licensing Credit Agreement, which is the sole source of credit for FCHC and FCMC, does not include a commitment to renew the $1 million revolving loan commitment, or the letter of credit commitment of up to $6.5 million, which supports various servicer and debt collector licenses of FCMC, and there is no assurance that Huntington will renew the credit line or letters of credit at that time. In addition, the anticipated Bankruptcy Filing of FCHC would constitute events of default under the Legacy Credit Agreement, which is set in any event to mature on March 31, 2012, and the Licensing Credit Agreement, with the Legacy Debt automatically due and payable but subject to the automatic stay and other provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Although FCHC and FCMC, prior to any Bankruptcy Filing, shall seek the necessary waivers and agreements of the Bank with respect to the Legacy Credit Agreement and Licensing Credit Agreement to maintain the line of credit and letter of credit facility of FCMC for its servicing licenses, which is supported by the $7.5 million of cash collateral previously pledged to the Bank by FCHC and FCMC under the Legacy Credit Agreement and Licensing Credit Agreement, there can be no assurance that FCHC and FCMC will obtain such waivers and agreements. In the event that such waivers and agreements are not obtained, the business of FCMC may be adversely affected should FCHC proceed with the filing of a bankruptcy petition. 33 If our lenders fail to renew our loans under the Legacy Credit Agreement for additional terms or provide us with refinancing opportunities, our legacy indebtedness will become due and payable on March 31, 2012. The principal sum of Legacy Debt owed to Huntington under the Legacy Credit Agreement, which totaled approximately $808.8 million as of December 31, 2011, is due on March 31, 2012 (if not earlier under the provisions of the Legacy Credit Agreement). The Legacy Credit Agreement does not include a commitment to refinance this outstanding balance. Without an extension, renewal, modification, or amendment by the Bank of the Legacy Credit Agreement, if the subsidiaries of FCHC (other than FCMC), which are obligated under the Legacy Credit Agreement, are unable to repay to the Bank the remaining principal and interest due by March 31, 2012, which is expected, the Company will be unable to repay the Legacy Debt and the Bank would have all available rights and remedies, including a foreclosure on the assets pledged to the Bank (which no longer includes equity interests in FCMC, but would include cash held by FCMC in the amount of $7.5 million), which could have a material impact on our business and operations and render us insolvent. In addition, the anticipated Bankruptcy Filing of FCHC would constitute events of default under the Legacy Credit Agreement, which is set in any event to mature on March 31, 2012, and the Licensing Credit Agreement, with the Legacy Debt automatically due and payable but subject to the automatic stay and other provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Although FCHC and FCMC shall seek the necessary waivers and agreements of the Bank with respect to the Legacy Credit Agreement and Licensing Credit Agreement to maintain the line of credit and letter of credit facility of FCMC for its servicing licenses, which is supported by the $7.5 million of cash collateral previously pledged to the Bank by FCHC and FCMC under the Legacy Credit Agreement and Licensing Credit Agreement, there can be no assurance that FCHC and FCMC will obtain such waivers and agreements. In the event that such waivers and agreements are not obtained, the business of FCMC may be adversely affected should FCHC proceed with the filing of a bankruptcy petition. The clients for whom we service loans may transfer our rights as servicer and we may be unable to add business or take appropriate cost-saving measures to replace reduced revenues. Under the terms of FCMC’s servicing agreements with third parties, our clients have, in general, reserved the right to terminate our servicing of their loans without cause upon minimal notice and the payment of minimal or no termination penalties. In addition, with respect to one of FCMC’s significant servicing clients, Bosco I, the client’s loan agreement with its lenders expired on May 28, 2011, without being renewed or extended. Although Bosco I is still the owner of the collateral and FCMC remains as the servicer of the mortgage loans, it is uncertain whether the lenders will foreclose on the collateral or continue in the foreseeable future to permit FCMC to remain the servicer of the mortgage loans. In addition, should FCMC be unable to attract new business or should clients exercise their rights to terminate a significant portion of the loans currently serviced by FCMC, FCMC may be unable to add business or take appropriate cost-saving measures to replace the reduced revenues or avoid insolvency. If any of our four largest servicing clients terminate us as servicer, that would represent a loss of a significant portion of our servicing revenue and our operations and financial condition would be adversely affected, which could result in our insolvency, including the insolvency of FCMC. 34 Our ability to fund operating expenses depends on the cash flow received from servicing loans for third parties. The line of credit available for FCMC under the Licensing Credit Agreement is limited to $1.0 million, which expires September 30, 2012. If the cash flow received by FCMC from servicing loans and performing due diligence services for third parties is insufficient to sustain the cost of operating FCMC’s business, and we have fully utilized our licensing credit facility, our operations and financial condition would be adversely affected, which could result in our insolvency, including the insolvency of FCMC. A prolonged economic slowdown or a lengthy or severe recession could harm our servicing operations, particularly if it results in a further decline in real estate values. The risks associated with our servicing business are more acute during periods of economic slowdown or recession because these periods may be accompanied by decreased real estate values. Any material decline in real estate values would increase the loan-to-value ratios on loans that we service for third parties and, therefore, weaken any collateral coverage, increase the likelihood of a borrower with little or no equity in his or her home defaulting and increase the possibility of a loss or reduced servicing and collection revenues if a borrower defaults. We are also subject to servicing risks from decreasing interest rates. A significant decrease in interest rates could increase the rate at which the loans that we service for third parties are prepaid and reduce FCMC’s servicing and collection income in subsequent periods. We may not be successful in expanding or implementing our planned business of providing specialty servicing and other mortgage related services for other entities on a fee-paying basis. The servicing and mortgage-related services industries are highly competitive. Prior to 2010, FCMC did not historically provide such services to unrelated third parties. Additionally, the absence of a rating by a statistical rating agency as a primary or special servicer of residential mortgage loans may make it difficult to compete or effectively market FCMC’s services to entities that rely on such ratings as a factor in the selection of a servicer for their loans. If we do not succeed in expanding our business of providing such services to third parties, or prove unable to provide such services on a profitable basis, such a failure could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. If we do not obtain and maintain the appropriate state licenses, we will not be allowed to service mortgage loans in affected states, which would adversely affect our operations. The requirements imposed by state mortgage finance licensing laws vary considerably. In addition to the requirement for a license to engage in mortgage origination activities, many mortgage licensing laws impose a licensing obligation to service residential mortgage loans. Further, certain state collection agency licensing laws require entities collecting on current, delinquent or defaulted loans for others or to acquire such loans to be licensed as well. Under the SAFE Act of 2008, which establishes minimum standards for the licensing and registration of individuals meeting the definition of a mortgage loan originator, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), which until a transfer of authority to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) was delegated the authority to ensure that every state meet the requirements of the SAFE Act, issued proposed rules on December 15, 2009. In those rules, HUD took the informal position that individuals who perform loan modifications for servicers meet the definition of “mortgage loan originator” for purposes of the state versions of the SAFE Act. Several states adopted this informal position, pending the publication of final rules from HUD or CFPB. Other states have moved to either specifically include or exempt those individuals working for servicers from the definition of “mortgage loan originator.” On June 30, 2011, HUD issued a final rule, but did not adopt its proposed position on loan modification activities, deferring the question to the CFPB. The CFPB, which took over responsibilities on the SAFE Act on July 21, 2011, re-published HUD’s final rule on December 19, 2011 as an interim final rule establishing a Regulation H for public comment by February 17, 2012, with only non-substantive technical and conforming changes. Significantly, the CFPB has to date not adopted the exception for loss mitigation activities for borrowers reasonably likely to default applicable to federally regulated institutions. As a result, individuals who engage in loan modification activities for state regulated servicers may potentially fall within the definition of a loan originator and be required to hold individual licenses within a particular state. Furthermore, state SAFE Acts impose civil and criminal penalties on both individuals and companies for failure to comply with their requirements. This individual licensing issue is currently in-flux, and subject to change pending a final rule from the CFPB, and a more thorough review of the licensing policy from state regulators over the coming months. 35 As the examinations for licensing under the SAFE Act (which is required for those not employed by a Federally regulated institution) generally cover the origination and not servicing of loans, there can be no assurance that our staff or those we hire will be able to pass the required state and national exams and satisfy individual licensing requirements in sufficient numbers to continue loan modifications efforts in those states where SAFE Act licensing is required. Any such failures may result in FCMC losing a license in any such state that requires a servicer to consider a modification prior to foreclosure and a loss of servicing business. In the alternative, if hiring individuals who are already licensed under the SAFE Act is necessary, such individuals may not have adequate experience servicing or modifying loans and we could be at a competitive disadvantage from an internal cost perspective to federally regulated institutions, which are not subject to individual licensing requirements. Approximately 30% of the states have enacted broader state laws that specifically require or are interpreted to require individuals who perform loan modifications, including as part of loss mitigation, be licensed as a mortgage loan originator. Although FCMC has encountered difficulty in having its servicing employees pass the SAFE Act exams, which focus primarily on loan originations, and may face regulatory action and penalties in those states in which employee loan originator licenses to the extent required to perform loan modifications may not yet have been obtained, fourteen (approximately 25%) of its servicing employees have passed the Federal SAFE Act exam and, in the states requiring loan originator licenses to perform loan modifications, employees have passed a state SAFE Act exam, with an individual license having been granted to an employee(s) in a few of those states and applications pending in the other states. Once licenses are obtained by a company, state regulators impose additional ongoing obligations on licensees, such as maintaining certain minimum net worth or line of credit requirements. In limited instances, the net worth calculation may not include recourse on any contingent liabilities. If the Company’s servicing subsidiary, FCMC, does not, among other things, meet these minimum net worth or line of credit requirements, state regulators may revoke or suspend FCMC’s licenses and prevent FCMC from continuing to service loans in such states, which would adversely affect FCMC’s operations and financial condition and ability to attract new servicing customers. A number of the second-lien mortgage loans that we service are subordinated to ARM or interest-only mortgages that may be subject to monthly payment increases, which may result in delinquencies and a decrease in servicing and collection revenues. A number of the second-lien mortgage loans that we acquired prior to the March 2009 Restructuring, which we continue to service through FCMC for third parties, are subordinated to an adjustable rate mortgage (ARM) held by a third party that was originated in a period of unusually low interest rates or originated with a below market interest rate, or to an interest-only mortgage. A substantial majority of these ARMs bore a fixed rate for the first two or three years of the loan, followed by annual interest and payment rate resets. As a result, holders of ARM loans face monthly payment increases following interest rate adjustments. Similarly, interest-only loans typically required principal payments to be made after the first one or two years from the date of the loan. The decreased availability of refinancing alternatives has impacted the run-off that typically occurs as an ARM resets or the interest-only loans begin to require the payment of principal. Interest rate adjustments or principal becoming payable on first-lien mortgages may also have a direct impact on a borrower’s ability to repay any underlying second-lien mortgage loan on a property. As a result, delinquencies on these loans may increase and our ability to service and collect on these loans may be adversely affected, resulting in a decrease in our servicing and collection revenues and cash flows. 36 We are subject to losses from the mortgage loans we acquired and originated prior to the Restructuring due to fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, mortgage brokers, sellers of loans we acquired, vendors and our employees. When we acquired and originated mortgage loans, including those mortgage loans transferred to the Trust as part of the March 2009 Restructuring, which we currently service for third parties, we typically relied heavily upon information supplied by third parties, including the information contained in the loan application, property appraisal, title information and, employment and income stated on the loan application. If any of this information was intentionally or negligently misrepresented and such misrepresentation was not detected prior to the acquisition or funding of the loan, the value of the loan may end up being significantly lower than expected or the loan may violate various laws or regulations. Whether a misrepresentation was made by the loan applicant, the mortgage broker, another third party or one of our employees, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation or may face liability for such actions except when we purchased loans pursuant to contracts that include a right of return and the seller remains sufficiently creditworthy to render such right meaningful. Legal proceedings and regulatory investigations could be brought or initiated which could adversely affect our financial results. Various companies throughout the mortgage industry have been named as defendants in individual and class action law suits and have been the subject of regulatory investigations challenging residential loan servicing and origination practices (even as an acquirer of a loan), including, with respect to subprime loans, which we originated and acquired, and most recently, standing to bring a foreclosure action, foreclosure processes and procedures and the verification of information included in and notarization of affidavits filed in foreclosure, eviction and bankruptcy matters and the purchase of force-placed insurance on behalf of homeowners for homes without insurance and costs, premiums, rebates and commissions associated therewith. At least some of those participants have paid significant sums to settle lawsuits or regulatory proceedings brought against them in respect of servicing and origination practices. There can be no assurance that similar suits or proceedings will not be brought against us in the future, and that we will not be subject to resulting fines, sanctions, costs, damages, penalties or claims by counterparties or third parties (or, additionally with respect to foreclosures, the overturning of foreclosure sales or delays in the foreclosure process) that could adversely affect our financial results, or substantial damages that could render the Company insolvent. Given the nature of the industry in which we operate, our businesses is, and in the future may become, involved in various legal proceedings the ultimate resolution of which is inherently unpredictable and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Due, in part, to the heavily regulated nature of the industries in which we operate, we are, and in the future may become, involved in various legal proceedings. We may therefore incur legal costs and expenses in connection with the defense of such proceedings. In addition, the actual cost of resolving our pending and any future legal proceedings might be substantially higher than any amounts reserved for such matters. Depending on the remedy sought and the outcome of such proceedings, the ultimate resolution of our pending and any future legal proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 37 We are exposed to counterparty risk and there can be no assurances that we will manage or mitigate this risk effectively. We are exposed to counterparty risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to various agreements and transactions. The insolvency, unwillingness or inability of a significant counterparty to perform its obligations under an agreement or transaction, including, without limitation, as a result of the rejection of an agreement or transaction by counterparty in bankruptcy proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. There can be no assurances that we will be effective in managing or mitigating our counterparty risk. The success and growth of our servicing business will depend on our ability to adapt to and implement technological changes, and any failure to do so could result in a material adverse effect on our business. Our mortgage loan servicing business is dependent upon our ability to effectively adapt to technological advances, such as the ability to automate loan servicing, process borrower payments and provide customer information over the Internet, accept electronic signatures and provide instant status updates. The intense competition in our industry has led to rapid technological developments, evolving industry standards and frequent releases of new products and enhancements. The failure to acquire new technologies or technological solutions when necessary could limit our ability to remain competitive in our industry and our ability to increase the cost efficiencies of our servicing operation, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Alternatively, adapting to technological changes in the industry to remain competitive may require us to make significant and costly changes to our loan servicing and information systems, which could lead to an increase in operating costs. If we do not manage the changes in our businesses effectively, our financial performance could be harmed. As we seek to expand our specialty servicing and collections business and seek to engage in new businesses, our future growth could require capital resources beyond what we currently possess, which would place certain pressures on our infrastructure. Our future profitability will similarly depend on the proper management of our wind-down of the businesses we no longer operate. We will need to continue to upgrade and expand our financial, operational and managerial systems and controls, particularly our servicing systems and resources. If we do not manage the changes in our servicing business effectively, our expenses could increase, and FCMC’s business, liquidity and financial condition could be significantly harmed. The inability to attract and retain qualified employees could significantly harm our business. We continually need to retain, attract, hire and successfully integrate qualified personnel, including certain servicing personnel that are able to satisfy licensing requirements under the SAFE Act to perform loan modifications (in those states where SAFE Act licensing is required for such activities), in an intensely competitive hiring environment in order to manage and operate our business. The market for skilled management, professional and loan servicing personnel is highly competitive. Competition for qualified personnel may lead to increased hiring and retention costs. If we are unable to attract, successfully integrate and retain a sufficient number of skilled personnel at manageable costs, we will be unable to effectively continue to service mortgage loans, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to our operating losses and financial condition, on a consolidated basis, we may be unable to hire additional qualified personnel and retaining key employees could become more challenging. 38 An interruption in or breach of our information systems may result in lost business and increased expenses. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of or damage to our information systems or the third-party information systems on which we rely could cause us to be noncompliant with our servicing and collection contracts and significant Federal and state regulations relating to the handling of customer information, particularly with respect to maintaining the confidentiality of such information. A failure, interruption or breach of information systems could result in the loss of our servicing and collection contracts, regulatory action and litigation against us. We cannot assure that such failures or interruptions will not occur or if they do occur that they will be adequately addressed by us or the third parties on which we rely. We are exposed to the risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we took title. We have historically foreclosed on defaulted mortgage loans in our portfolio, taking title to the properties underlying those mortgages. By taking title, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to such properties and any remaining properties that we have to reacquire. Hazardous substances or wastes, contaminants, pollutants or sources thereof may be discovered on these properties during our ownership or after a sale to a third party. Environmental defects can reduce the value of and make it more difficult to sell such properties, and we may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation, and cleanup costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. These costs could be substantial. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. Although we have not to date incurred any environmental liabilities in connection with real estate, there can be no assurance that we will not incur any such liabilities in the future. A loss of our Chairman and President may adversely affect our operations. Thomas J. Axon, our Chairman and President, is responsible for making substantially all of the most significant policy and managerial decisions in our business operations. These decisions are paramount to the success and future growth of our servicing business. Mr. Axon is also the managing member of three of our principal servicing clients, Bosco I, Bosco II and Bosco III, and was instrumental in maintaining our relationship with Huntington and our operations under the terms of the Restructuring Agreements and retaining the servicing of loans sold by the Bank’s Trust in the third and fourth quarters of 2010. A loss of the services of Mr. Axon could disrupt and adversely affect our operations. Risks Related to Our Financial Statements We may become subject to liability and incur increased expenditures as a result of our having transferred substantially all our mortgage portfolio related assets to the Bank. Our transfer of substantially all of our loans and properties acquired through foreclosure to the Bank in March 2009 could expose us to legal action, government investigation or potential Federal income tax liabilities. The defense of any such actions could cause the diversion of management’s attention and resources, and we could be required to pay damages to settle such actions or if any such actions are not resolved in our favor. Even if resolved in our favor, such actions could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. Moreover, we may be the subject of negative publicity and negative reactions from stockholders, creditors, existing and potential servicing clients or others with which we do business. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could harm our business. 39 Failures in our internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures could lead to material errors in our financial statements and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. Such controls are designed to provide reasonable, not absolute assurance that we are providing reliable financial reports. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there is only reasonable assurance that our controls will succeed in achieving their goals under all potential future conditions. If such controls fail to operate effectively, this may result in material errors in our financial statements. Deficiencies in our system of internal controls over financial reporting may require remediation, which could be costly. Failure to remediate such deficiencies or to implement required new or improved controls could lead to material errors in our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, and expose us to government investigation or legal action. Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Industry New legislation and regulations directed at curbing predatory lending and abusive servicing practices could restrict our ability to service non-prime residential mortgage loans, which could adversely impact our earnings. The Federal Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act, or HOEPA, identifies a category of residential mortgage loans and subjects such loans to restrictions not applicable to other residential mortgage loans. Loans subject to HOEPA consist of loans on which certain points and fees or the annual percentage rate, which is based on the interest rate and certain finance charges, exceed specified levels. Laws, rules and regulations have been adopted at the state and local levels that are similar to HOEPA in that they impose certain restrictions on loans that exceed certain cost parameters. These state and local laws generally have lower thresholds and broader prohibitions than under the Federal law. The restrictions include prohibitions on steering borrowers into loans with high interest rates and away from more affordable products, selling unnecessary insurance to borrowers, flipping or repeatedly refinancing loans and originating loans without a reasonable expectation that the borrowers will be able to repay the loans without regard to the value of the mortgaged property. Compliance with some of these restrictions requires lenders to make subjective judgments, such as whether a loan will provide a “net tangible benefit” to the borrower. These restrictions expose a lender to risks of litigation and regulatory sanction no matter how carefully a loan is underwritten and impact the way in which a loan is underwritten. The remedies for violations of these laws are not based on actual harm to the consumer and can result in damages that exceed the loan balance. Liability for violations of HOEPA, as well as violations of many of the state and local equivalents, would extend not only to us, but to assignees, which may include our warehouse lenders and whole-loan buyers, regardless of whether such assignee knew of or participated in the violation. It was our policy not to originate loans that would be subject to HOEPA or similar state and local laws and not to purchase high-cost loans that would have violated those laws. If we miscalculated the numerical thresholds described above, however, we may have mistakenly originated or purchased such loans and bear the related marketplace and legal risks and consequences. In a number of states, for example, state and local anti-predatory lending laws and regulations broaden the trigger test for loans subject to restrictions. If the numerical thresholds were miscalculated, certain variations of Tribeca’s loan product, where the lending decision may have been based entirely or primarily on the borrower’s equity in his or her home and not, or to a lesser extent, on a determination of the borrower’s ability to repay the loan, would violate HOEPA and many of these state and local anti-predatory lending laws. In the past, we sold a portion of these loans to third parties on a whole-loan, servicing-released basis. We purchased loans that are covered by one of these laws, rules or regulations only if, in our judgment, a loan was made in accordance with our strict legal compliance standards and without undue risk relative to litigation or to the enforcement of the loan according to its terms. 40 Several states and municipalities have adopted legislation and ordinances establishing new consumer protections governing loan servicing practices and foreclosure procedures. Some of the provisions will impede or materially delay a holder’s ability to foreclose on certain mortgaged properties. There are proposed laws providing greater protections to consumers, pertaining to such activities as maintenance of escrow funds, timely crediting of payments received, limitation on ancillary income, responding to customer inquiries and requirements to conduct loss mitigation. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Reform Act) was signed into law. The Reform Act, which is designed to improve accountability and transparency in the financial system and to protect consumers from abusive financial services practices, creates various new requirements affecting mortgage servicers, such as FCMC, including mandatory escrow accounts for certain mortgage loans; notice requirements for consumers who waive escrow services; certain prohibitions related to mortgage servicing with respect to force-placed hazard insurance, qualified written requests, requests to correct certain servicing errors, and requests concerning the identity and contact information for an owner or assignee of a loan; requirements for prompt crediting of payments, processing of payoff statements, and monthly statements with certain disclosures for adjustable rate mortgage loans; and late fee restrictions on high-cost loans. In addition, a new executive agency and consumer financial regulator, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (CFPB), was established in the Federal Reserve System under the Reform Act. On July 21, 2011, the regulation of the offering and provision of consumer financial products or services, including mortgage servicing, under certain federal consumer financial laws, was transferred and consolidated into the CFPB. The CFPB will also issue regulations that will implement and enforce the new servicing requirements noted above. In February 2012, the CFPB announced that it is in the process of drafting new rules regarding required disclosures on billing statements to be sent to homeowners by mortgage servicers (a prototype of which has already been released by the CFPB), force-placed insurance, and new disclosures for certain types of adjustable-rate mortgages. The Federal Reserve Board approved changes to HOEPA in Regulation Z, which implements the Truth in Lending Act, to protect consumers from unfair or deceptive home mortgage lending and advertising practices. Effective October 1, 2009, the amendments create protections for a new category of loans called “higher-priced mortgage loans.” Under these amendments, companies that service mortgage loans are required to credit consumers’ loan payments as of the date of receipt. Further, the HOEPA amendments expand the types of loans subject to early disclosures. Previously, transaction-specific early disclosures were only required for purchase money mortgage loans. The early disclosures now are required with all closed-end non-purchase money mortgage loans, such as refinancings, closed-end home equity loans and reverse mortgage loans. Under the Reform Act, HOEPA was revised to lower APR and point and fee triggers and expand coverage to purchase money mortgages. We cannot predict whether or in what form Congress or the various state and local legislatures may enact legislation affecting our business. We are evaluating the potential impact of these initiatives, if enacted, on our servicing practices and results of operations. As a result of these and other initiatives, we are unable to predict whether Federal, state, or local authorities will require changes in our servicing practices in the future, including reimbursement of fees charged to borrowers, or will impose fines. These changes, if required, could adversely affect our profitability, particularly if we make such changes in response to new or amended laws, regulations or ordinances in states where we service a significant amount of mortgage loans. The broad scope of our operations exposes us to risks of noncompliance with an increasing and inconsistent body of complex laws and regulations at the Federal, state and local levels. Because we service and collect on loans and have purchased and originated mortgage loans in all 50 states, we must comply with the laws and regulations pertaining to licensing, disclosure and substantive practices, as well as judicial and administrative decisions, of all of these jurisdictions, as well as an extensive body of Federal laws and regulations. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years, and government agencies enforcing these laws, as well as the courts, sometimes interpret the same law in different ways. The laws and regulations of each of these jurisdictions are different, complex and, in some cases, in direct conflict with each other. Accordingly, it may be more difficult to identify comprehensively and to interpret accurately applicable laws and regulations and to employ properly our policies, procedures and systems and train our personnel effectively with respect to all of these laws and regulations, thereby potentially increasing our exposure to the risks of noncompliance with these laws and regulations. 41 Federal, state and local governmental authorities have focused on the lending and servicing practices of companies in the non-prime mortgage lending and mortgage servicing industry, sometimes seeking to impose sanctions for practices such as charging excessive fees, imposing interest rates higher than warranted by the credit risk of the borrower, imposing prepayment fees, failing to adequately disclose the material terms of loans and abusive servicing and collection practices. Our failure to comply with this regulatory regimen can lead to: (i) civil and criminal liability, including potential monetary penalties; (ii) loss of servicing and debt collection licenses or approved status required for continued business operations; (iii) demands for indemnification or loan repurchases from purchasers of our loans; (iv) legal defenses causing delay and expense; (v) adverse effects on our ability, as servicer or debt collector, to enforce loans; (vi) the imposition of supervisory agreements and cease-and-desist orders; (vii) the borrower having the right to rescind or cancel the loan transaction; (viii) adverse publicity; (ix) individual and class action lawsuits; (x) administrative enforcement actions; (xi) damage to our reputation in the industry; or (xii) the inability to obtain credit to fund our operations. Although we have systems and procedures directed to comply with these legal requirements and believe that we are in material compliance with applicable Federal, state and local statutes, rules and regulations, we cannot assure you that more restrictive laws and regulations will not be adopted in the future, or that governmental bodies or courts will not interpret existing laws or regulations in a more restrictive manner, which could render our current business practices noncompliant or which could make compliance more difficult or expensive. These applicable laws and regulations are subject to administrative or judicial interpretation, but some of these laws and regulations have been enacted only recently, or may be interpreted infrequently or only recently and inconsistently. As a result of infrequent, sparse or conflicting interpretations, ambiguities in these laws and regulations may leave uncertainty with respect to permitted or restricted conduct under them. Any ambiguity under a law to which we are subject may lead to regulatory investigations, governmental enforcement actions or private causes of action, such as class action lawsuits, with respect to our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. We may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of our independent brokers. Mortgage brokers that we utilized prior to November 2007 to source our legacy mortgage originations, have parallel and separate legal obligations to which they are subject. While these laws may not explicitly hold the originating lenders responsible for the legal violations of mortgage brokers, increasingly Federal and state agencies have sought to impose such assignee liability. For example, the FTC entered into a settlement agreement with a mortgage lender where the FTC characterized a broker that had placed all of its loan production with a single lender as the “agent” of the lender. The FTC imposed a fine on the lender in part because, as “principal,” the lender was legally responsible for the mortgage broker’s unfair and deceptive acts and practices. In the past, the United States Department of Justice sought to hold a non-prime mortgage lender responsible for the pricing practices of its mortgage brokers, alleging that the mortgage lender was directly responsible for the total fees and charges paid by the borrower under the Fair Housing Act even if the lender neither dictated what the mortgage broker could charge nor kept the money for its own account. Accordingly, we may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of independent mortgage brokers utilized by us in the past. We are subject to reputation risks from negative publicity concerning the mortgage industry. The mortgage industry in which we operate may be subject to periodic negative publicity, which could damage our reputation and adversely impact our servicing business. 42 Reputation risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative publicity, is inherent in our industry. There is a perception that the borrowers may be unsophisticated and in need of consumer protection. Accordingly, from time to time, consumer advocate groups or the media may focus attention on our services (both past and present), thereby subjecting our industry to the possibility of periodic negative publicity. We may also be negatively impacted if another company in the mortgage industry or in a related industry engages in practices resulting in increased public attention to our industry. Negative publicity may also occur as a result of judicial inquiries and regulatory or governmental action with respect to the mortgage industry. Negative publicity may result in increased regulation and legislative scrutiny of industry practices as well as increased litigation or enforcement actions by civil and criminal authorities. Additionally, negative publicity may increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our servicing operations by impeding our ability to attract and retain customers and employees. During the past several years, the press has widely reported certain industry related concerns, including rising delinquencies, the tightening of credit and more recently, increasing litigation. Some of the litigation instituted against mortgage lenders and servicers is being brought in the form of purported class actions by individuals or by state or Federal regulators or state attorneys general. The judicial climate in many states is such that the outcome of these cases is unpredictable. If we are subject to increased litigation due to such negative publicity, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We are subject to significant legal and reputation risks and expenses under Federal and state laws concerning privacy, use and security of customer information. The Federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley financial reform legislation imposes significant privacy obligations on us in connection with the collection, use, disposal and security of financial and other nonpublic information provided of borrowers. In addition, California and Vermont have enacted, and several other states are considering enacting, privacy or customer-information-security legislation with even more stringent requirements than those set forth in the Federal law. Because laws and rules concerning the use and protection of customer information are continuing to develop at the Federal and state levels, we expect to incur increased costs in our effort to be and remain in full compliance with these requirements. Nevertheless, despite our efforts, we will be subject to legal and reputational risks in connection with our collection, safeguarding, disposal and use of customer information, and we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to lawsuits or compliance actions under such state or Federal privacy requirements. To the extent that a variety of inconsistent state privacy rules or requirements are enacted, our compliance costs could substantially increase. If many of the borrowers of the loans we service become subject to the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act of 2003, our cash flows and service fee income may be adversely affected. Under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act of 2003, or the Civil Relief Act, a borrower who enters active military service after the origination of his or her mortgage loan generally may not be required to pay interest above an annual rate of 6%, and the lender is restricted from exercising certain enforcement remedies, including foreclosure, during the period of the borrower’s active duty status. The Civil Relief Act also applies to a borrower who was on reserve status and is called to active duty after origination of the mortgage loan. The Civil Relief Act was amended on July 30, 2008 by the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 and Helping Heroes Keep Their Homes Act of 2010 to temporarily enhance protections for servicemembers relating to mortgages and mortgage foreclosures until December 31, 2012, by extending the protection period and stay of proceedings from 90 days to nine months and extending the interest rate limitation on mortgages from the period of military service to the period of military service and one year thereafter. On October 13, 2010, the Veterans’ Benefits Act of 2010 became law, which allows for enforcement of the Civil Relief Act by the U.S. Attorney General and provides for a private right cause of action. Considering the large number of U.S. Armed Forces personnel on active duty and likely to be on active duty in the future, our cash flows and revenues may be adversely affected by compliance with this law. 43 Legislative action to provide mortgage relief may negatively impact our business or increase our compliance costs. As delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures in and of residential mortgages have increased dramatically, there are several Federal, state and local initiatives to restrict our ability to foreclose and resell the property of a customer in default. Any restriction on our ability to foreclose on a loan, any requirement that we forego a portion of the amount otherwise due on a loan or any requirement that we modify any original loan terms could negatively impact FCMC’s servicing business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. These initiatives have come in the form of proposed legislation and regulations, including those pertaining to Federal bankruptcy laws, government investigations and calls for voluntary modifications of mortgages and a national servicing standard for servicing loans. Moreover, the Reform Act, state laws and regulatory requirements in certain states such as New York and North Carolina, recent bills introduced in Congress, a settlement involving servicing and foreclosure practices entered into between the Federal bank regulators and 14 servicers in April 2011, and a recent settlement with the five largest mortgage servicers, state attorneys general and Federal agencies, including a new homeowners bill of rights proposed in California by its state attorney general in response to the settlement, suggest that new national standards for servicing and foreclosures will be implemented soon that will likely focus on, among other things, payment processing, billing statements, disclosures, loss mitigation protocols, having a single point of contact for borrowers, fees (including default fees, late charges and recoupment of third-party fees), force-placed insurance and insurance escrow accounts, maintenance of real estate owned or securing loans, and the practice of foreclosing while a loan modification application is pending. Accordingly, our compliance costs may materially increase, which in turn may adversely affect the results of operations of FCMC. Several states and municipalities have adopted legislation and ordinances establishing new consumer protections governing loan servicing practices and foreclosure procedures. There are proposed and enacted laws providing greater protections to consumers, pertaining to such activities as maintenance of escrow funds, timely crediting of payments received, limitation on ancillary income, responding to customer inquiries and requirements to conduct loss mitigation. In addition, there are several Federal and state government initiatives, including HAMP under the Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan, which seek to obtain the voluntary agreement of servicers to subscribe to a code of conduct or statement of principles or methodologies when working with borrowers facing foreclosure on their homes. Generally speaking, the principles call for servicers to reach out to borrowers before their loans “reset” with higher monthly payments that might result in a default by a borrower and seek to modify loans prior to the reset. Applicable servicing agreements, Federal tax law and accounting standards limit the ability of a servicer to modify a loan before the borrower has defaulted on the loan or the servicer has determined that a default by the borrower is reasonably likely to occur. Servicing agreements generally require the servicer to act in the best interests of the note holders or at least not to take actions that are materially adverse to the interests of the noteholders. Compliance with the code or principles must conform to these other contractual, tax and accounting standards. As a result, servicers have to confront competing demands from consumers and those advocating on their behalf to make home retention the overarching priority when dealing with borrowers in default, on the one hand, and the requirements of noteholders to maximize returns on the loans, on the other. 44 Risks Related to Our Securities Thomas J. Axon effectively controls our company, substantially reducing the influence of our other stockholders. Thomas J. Axon, our Chairman and President, beneficially owns more than 45% of our outstanding common stock, and 20% of the stock of FCMC. As a result, Mr. Axon will be able to influence significantly the actions that require stockholder approval, including: the election of our directors; and, the approval of mergers, sales of assets or other corporate transactions or matters submitted for stockholder approval. Furthermore, the members of the board of directors as a group (including Mr. Axon) beneficially own a substantial majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, our other stockholders may have little or no influence over matters submitted for stockholder approval. In addition, Mr. Axon’s influence and/or that of our current board members could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of us and consequently materially adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may adversely impact the price and liquidity of the common stock, and our ability to raise capital. Our common stock is quoted under the stock symbol “FCMC.OB” on the “OTC Bulletin Board,” a centralized quotation service for over-the-counter securities and is subject to the rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 relating to “penny stocks.” These rules require brokers who sell securities that are subject to the rules, and who sell to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors, to complete required documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with information concerning the risks of trading in the security. These requirements could make it more difficult to buy or sell our common stock in the open market. In addition, this could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital, and could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Our organizational documents, Delaware law and our Restructuring Agreements may make it harder for us to be acquired without the consent and cooperation of our board of directors, management and our Bank. Several provisions of our organizational documents, Delaware law, and our Restructuring Agreements may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including a takeover attempt in which the potential purchaser offers to pay a per share price greater than the current market price of our common stock. Our classified board of directors will make it more difficult for a person seeking to obtain control of us to do so. Also, our supermajority voting requirements may discourage or deter a person from attempting to obtain control of us by making it more difficult to amend the provisions of our certificate of incorporation to eliminate an anti-takeover effect or the protections they afford minority stockholders, and will make it more difficult for a stockholder or stockholder group to put pressure on our board of directors to amend our certificate of incorporation to facilitate a takeover attempt. In addition, under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof. The ability to issue shares of preferred stock could tend to discourage takeover or acquisition proposals not supported by our current board of directors. The preceding provisions of our organizational documents could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change of control and prevent changes in our management, even if such events would be in the best interests of our stockholders. 45 Under the terms of the Restructuring Agreements, we cannot enter into mergers, consolidations, sales of any substantial portion of our assets (other than in connection with a restructuring or spinoff of FCMC), or certain material changes to our capital structure, without the prior approval of our Bank. In addition, under the terms of Deferred Payment Agreement entered into with the Bank, FCMC will pay to the Bank in respect of a “qualifying transaction” consummated during the term of the agreement an amount equal to ten percent of the aggregate value of the qualifying transaction minus $4 million. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate and cause our stock price to decline. Because of the nature of our business and our Restructuring Agreements, our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, and we are likely to incur additional operating losses. Our results may fluctuate as a result of any of the following: (i) the timing and amount of collections on loans that we service; (ii) the rate of delinquency, default, foreclosure and prepayment on the loans we service; (iii) changes in interest rates; (iv) our inability to successfully enter the new business of servicing loans for third parties; (v) further declines in the estimated value of real property securing mortgage loans; (vi) increases in operating expenses associated with the changes in our business; (vii) general economic and market conditions; and, (viii) the effects of state and Federal tax, monetary and fiscal policies. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and we cannot predict their potential effects on the price of our common stock. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or further significantly decline or become worthless in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 